ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hour. 9.30 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u2	Madam Secretary hasn't worked hard. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws (print No 1164). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u3	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws is another implementation of EU legislation. This time we are implementing the BRRD2 directive. This is a continuation of regulatory reforms related to increasing the resilience of financial institutions, mainly banks, with which the problem arose after the crisis in 2007-2008. The BRRD2 Directive and, consequently, the draft law introduces modified solutions with regard to the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities, so-called. MREL. MREL aims to strengthen the ability of banks to cover losses and possible recapitalisations in a situation of negative internal or external shock. In addition, the appropriate size and quality of MREL in a given bank is an essential condition for carrying out and, above all, the success of the forced restructuring process. It is in the public interest to initiate compulsory restructuring only if the bank in question is threatened with bankruptcy and all other private and supervisory measures have been exhausted in order to prevent and restructure this risk. In such a situation, forced restructuring is the only alternative to bank failure, which would have a negative impact on the economy and the financial market, and would require public funding to a large extent, as was evident in the financial crisis mentioned at the outset. At the same time, the draft law harmonises the European requirements of MREL with their international counterparts, so-called. Tlac. The point is that the same rules strengthening the stability of banks were based on two regulations: European and international. Therefore, we are now harmonising this. This is a simplification for the banking sector. In this way they will have to comply with uniform requirements. In addition, as part of the implementation, implementation of European Union legislation, we also propose: the introduction of a mechanism for pre-solution of the moratorium, i.e. granting a compulsory restructuring authority the power to temporarily suspend the fulfilment of certain obligations vis-à-vis certain creditors of the entity prior to the initiation of the compulsory restructuring process, but after the supervisory authority has recognised the institution as being bankrupt; giving the compulsory restructuring authority the power to impose restrictions on the institution on the distribution of profits made, e.g. in the form of dividends, where the equity position of an institution does not allow all regulatory requirements to be met; the introduction of provisions aimed at protecting retail investors from the risk of investing in financial institutions' debt securities which, in the event of a failure of that institution, may be subject to redemption or debt conversion - that is, I think, an important solution for all those who are interested in the situation of the bank in Sanok, a solution which will somehow protect, at least in part, from such situations as we experienced last year - as well as clarification as regards the conditions for the application of government financial stabilisation instruments and the role in this process of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of State Assets and the Financial Stability Committee. In addition, the proposed law provides for amendments aimed at improving the existing mechanisms for compulsory restructuring contained in the BFG Act, the modification, addition or clarification of which results from previous experience and practice of the law. Here I would just like to stress that these are no longer provisions implementing EU law, only provisions resulting from national experiences based, among others. in the compulsory restructuring process. Experience shows that this was done in an efficient way, but it can be done even more efficiently. The proposed rules appear with some delay, but this is because we preferred to consult them extensively and agree at the inter-ministerial stage, so that this law at this stage does not raise any doubts. This was also explained with the SKOK sector, which made some comments. So that despite the delay we have at least a guarantee that this project is developed and agreed. I'm asking for his admission. Thank you. Kaczyński's agreement is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club will be presented by Mr Andrzej Noblet to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws, print No 1164. This draft law concerns the implementation of European Union legislation in order to strengthen the resilience of financial institutions. The financial crisis in 2007-2008 inspired the European Union to reform financial services. After this crisis, the European Union has implemented major reforms in the area of financial services aimed at increasing the resilience of financial institutions. The lack of appropriate crisis management and resolution regulations has forced the governments of most countries to rescue banks from bankruptcy and the consequences of the financial crisis. However, the further impact of these measures on public finances and the burden on the public of restructuring and bank failure has led to the need to develop a new approach to crisis management in the banking sector. The responsibility of bank owners and creditors was strengthened, not taxpayers. The relevant Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2014 were implemented in Poland in the form of the Act of 10 June 2016 on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Insurance Scheme and compulsory restructuring. On 16 April 2019 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The European Parliament has adopted a banking package aimed at finalising reforms involving extensive changes in banking regulation. The solutions adopted will have a significant impact on bank capital requirements, risk models, financial structure and reporting systems. The revision of the banking package included, first, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 as regards the degree of preference for dangerous debt instruments, so-called. Directive BCH; second, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 as regards inter alia to the leverage ratio, the ratio of stable net financing, counterparty risk, market risk; thirdly, the Parliament and Council Directive of 20 May 2019 as regards the ability to cover losses and recapitalisations of credit institutions and investment firms, so-called. BRRD2 Fourthly, the Parliament and Council Directive of 20 May 2019 amending the 2014 Directive as regards financial entities, holding companies, remuneration, supervisory resources and powers and capital protection measures, so-called. CRDV Directive. The project introduces two levels of designation in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. MREL, making them dependent on the forced restructuring strategy adopted. This strategy depends on the decision of the compulsory restructuring authorities. High Izbo! The project introduces minimum MREL levels. In summary, the provisions of the draft law are in line with European Union law. The project introduces an MREL requirement which will affect the stability of financial institutions and markets. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will adopt this bill in further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u6	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u7	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We've got a lot of work to do. The proposed proposal to amend the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the guaranteed deposit scheme and the compulsory restructuring are almost 140 pages, and the seismic printing It's over 700 pages. This is an amendment. I had this impression, at some point I even thought that we were taking time for your marshal, because the Minister gave, or rather read very quickly, part of the justification of this project, and I think, Minister, this passage, which is no different from the part read when this law was previously in the Sejm. So we were talking about the crisis in 2007, we can discuss whether it ended in 2008, because for me, the world crisis, the collapse in the mortgage market in the United States, reached us in 2008 and was still in Poland. It didn't end in 2008. One thing is certain: it is glad that the Polish government is implementing European law. But if there's an opportunity, all I'm gonna say is that with the law and the rule of law, it doesn't matter that it's 99%. cases we follow the law, it is important that we do so 100% cases. I therefore hope, Minister, that we will implement all EU law, our common Community law. In order not to occupy your time or your marshal, I would just like to say what is in the document itself, and the European one, and the one that you spoke of by the Minister. I hope that this document, we will see this in the course of the committee work, is actually completing the work on securing the financial sector from the crises we had in 2007 and 2009. But what I have to say is two things, Minister. That is, firstly, by looking at the work to date on the Bank Guarantee Fund and in general our financial system, you were pleased to say that some of the changes are not caused by the EU directive, but by Polish experience. In this connection, I must ask you: Is there no formulation or magazine in this project, and this facilitation of restructuring of banks is not supposed to consist in the fact that the bank in Poland will not cost a zloty, as at the moment after your changes, only 10 gr? Honestly, it surprises the most - because in this respect It is you who have no clean hands - your declaration of this, the only declaration that, speaking of the Bank Guarantee Fund, speaking of the security of the entire system, you only mention a piece of the sector, i.e. SKOK-i. No, if an honest man stands up and hears two words: PiS and SKOK-i, then the red light turns on. I also hope that this law, which counts almost 140 pages, will be prosecuted on the committee in a decent way, not at an express rate, not on the basis that there is no time, because it is summa Summarum too important for Polish citizens. Because when the crisis comes and it's broken, you won't lose the minister, you won't lose the Prime Minister - they'll lose the Polish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u8	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Trela will speak on behalf of the Left Club. There isn't? Oh, there it is. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u9	Good morning, Marshal. High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left to present my position on the government draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the forced restructuring system and some other laws described in print No 1164. It is undisputed that the Left always supports all the laws that implement international law, EU law. This was, of course, the case between 2013 and 2014 when the European Union was preparing its assumptions to seal the financial system and, in fact, the financial institutions, because of course we support this plan and the European Union's idea that, in the event of the crisis that took place in 2007 and 2008, Member States should be prepared to lose the least of their nationals. Therefore, some of the solutions that we are dealing with here are certainly heading in exactly this direction. But as my esteemed previous speaker said, regulations and changes are very abundant as regards the various articles and references in these articles. The justification is also very large and requires a very detailed analysis at the meeting of the Committee on Finance to protect financial institutions, and really not so much financial institutions as our citizen in our country in the event of another financial crisis. I hope it never happens. But for these rules and this law, which has been implemented once in our country in 2016 - now we will do so, I hope, in 2021 - to protect our country's budget, and in fact our citizens' budgets from bearing the cost of a possible crisis. This is precisely what these provisions and the various provisions aim at, which is why today I can say with full responsibility that the direction of change is right, and the Left will support this direction, but we will, of course, work in detail in the substantive committee on individual provisions, because perhaps in the course of work, perhaps in the course of the discussion these provisions will be further clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u10	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, who will present the position of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Of course, Poland must implement European legislation, and we have no doubt about it, but the Minister's last statements were very worrying about the fact that the main timetable for this implementation was the consultation with the SKOKs. This is, Minister, something that has been very disturbing to many people, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition part of the parliament hall, because we know very well that your political ally is in charge, in fact shaking all the SKOKs in Poland. And that's what's bothering you. This law must be cut under Poles, under Polish entrepreneurs, that is to serve them first and foremost, to protect them from further potential crises. It must protect the institutions that manage the funds that Poles and entrepreneurs have entrusted to them and not be oriented towards the interests of your political colleague. This is what we wanted to draw attention to as the Coalition of Poland, without, of course, crossing the direction that was taken. As I said, above all because of the need to implement European legislation, we will be actively involved in the work, in accordance with the principle of limited trust, to look at the next provisions that will appear, because this recommendation of yours, the recommendation of this project, is a limited trust in a significant way today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u12	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Print No 1164 is indeed another draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee system and the forced restructuring implementing a number of... I have here written in eight positions, and so are the beatings, all the directives and regulations that we are implementing, Minister, I don't know which year anymore, but at least since the beginning of my political path, i.e. for six years. Moreover, the fact that in 2021 we are implementing a law that is designed to correct the effects and causes of the 2008 crisis shows how long this process lasts and how much the rule of law and justice systematically improves its misimplementation or misimplementation. Some, of course, also stem from the lessons learned from the implementation of the restructuring process of financial institutions in individual Member States, but some simply from incorrect implementations. Indeed, the process of controlled restructuring of financial institutions should be as clear as possible, should be more transparent, should be aimed at the good of the state and the good of customers. But this next directive will not further resolve this greatest doubt, which has, in fact, appeared since the beginning of the forced restructuring process, but also in the light of the first experience that we have in this regard. This is the double role of the Banking Guarantee Fund, which in these first cases has taken up the role of both the decision-maker initiating the compulsory restructuring process, i.e. the entity which, as it were, is starting the restructuring process for the financial institution concerned as well as the commissary manager. From the beginning, I have long raised this problem, which has not been resolved to this day, that in principle BFG is in such a dual role - it is not known whether it represents the State Treasury more, or whether it represents the interests of customers and shareholders more. Of course, in the ideal world it goes hand in hand, but in the imperfect world it would still be good for these two roles to be separated and for those representing these interests to have a mutual influence. Then, I think, this restructuring process... And let me remind you that, in the case of the last forced restructuring, there were doubts as to whether the bank could have been able to implement its restructuring plan without pressure in the light of the law, but also in the light of the good quality of the restructuring. These are extremely important issues which then influence citizens' confidence in the state, as well as the confidence of economic operators in the fact that they can conduct business in the light of existing law, but also make difficult decisions in difficult times without impure pressure. Because, of course, those pressures which arise directly from the law and to which public institutions are empowered should take place. But it looked different. We know and tapes of Chrzanowski, we know and doubts about Idea Bank, but we also know the risks that accompany it, and it would be good for this process to be more transparent. As far as this document is concerned, of course we will be working on it on the committee. He introduces many processes, minor changes, but nevertheless important from the point of view of the whole process precisely in terms of the transparency of its course. We've been through it. We don't have much attention at this point. We will look in a special way at those elements which, as always in the case of your government, have been included in the law outside the directive and not necessarily result from it. I do not know whether the Minister assumes work in the subcommittee on this document, but I think, given the importance and necessity of introducing, I think, already such a final framework of this restructuring process would be good to lean on it further and work in a way [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's more toned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u14	Thank you very much. Whether there's going to be work in the subcommittee is no longer up to the Minister, it's up to the committee itself. Coming through, High Izbo, for questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. There isn't? Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have, first of all, an appeal and a specific question. The appeal is this. The law is very complicated, many laws are being amended in the project, there is the issue of forced restructuring and many other difficult issues. That is why I would ask you to set the working time on this bill so that there is no excessive haste and work for several hours a day, because we need to pay close attention and analyse this project very carefully. Hence such a request, because we are always in time and always under pressure of time work. Second, the specific question. In 2016, representatives of the banking sector were removed from the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund. And now, during the consultation, the banking sector reiterates this and demands that it participate in this body. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why aren't we doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u17	High Izbo! Minister! It's a good thing we're talking about the resilience of the banking system today. We are well aware that we have a serious problem with fraudulent parish loans that threaten the stability of the banking system in the long term. These tens of thousands of lawsuits, where the overwhelming majority of judgments will benefit customers, is a real challenge that will probably already be faced by another government, not by the state government. However, the compulsory restructuring fund that we have at the moment is very modest. Modest not only in comparison with guaranteed measures, but also modest in comparison with challenges. Moreover, this year contributions for banks were reduced by 30%, from PLN 3 billion to PLN 2 billion in total. I wanted to ask how the government evaluates this and how the government evaluates the level of banks' reserves for the legal risk of the foreign exchange loan portfolio, because I personally have serious doubts about whether it will be sufficient (the bell), especially if in the future the restructuring will also be carried out by Getin Noble Bank. I would like to be sure that the Polish state will be prepared for such situations in the future and will not impose costs on individual bank clients, but unfortunately I still do not know for sure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In order to start this difficult work on this comprehensive document, I would like you to answer the question about the scope of this amendment, i.e. I would like you here, from the Parliamentary Speaker, to define exactly what areas go beyond this minimum, which we need to implement into Polish law, what you said, that the Polish experience makes you write down some things in this project that we will not find in the EU directives. What exactly are these things and what areas do they concern? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, It follows from the justification of the draft law that this implementation will not give rise to such fundamental financial implications for the state budget and local government units. On the other hand, it is mentioned that due to the increased need for different opinions issued by the Public Prosecutor-General, approximately PLN 5 million is expected to be spent each year. There is talk of a threefold increase in additional opinions. What is the result of the increased number of opinions issued by the Attorney General in this project? I would be grateful if you could reply or give us a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that a government bill amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and compulsory restructuring is an extremely good solution and necessary for financial security of the entire financial system. But the question arises: Does this mean that the compulsory restructuring of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank based in Sanoku was carried out at that time without regulation or on the basis of defective regulations? This project is certainly delayed and implementation is necessary. Here also another question arises, Minister: How long will Bank Nowy BFG SA carry out its tasks? He was only supposed to be in time for administration and recovery. It was supposed to be a transitional situation. On this subject, I would like to ask the Minister to give a few words of explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u25	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to refer here to the forced restructuring of Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok. It was a shock to all the shareholders of this bank, shareholders, those who kept their deposits there. We remember this event. It is still painful for many, many people. Let me give you an example: the Sewerage Committee has lost its money collected for 20 years. This shows how bad it was. But my question is this. Recently, there has been information that the facilities of the bank under restructuring will be liquidated at the moment. I would like to remind you that these facilities were based on cooperative banks. And what is cooperativeism (the bell) in our financial system, then everyone should know. So I have a question: is it true, Minister, that in the framework of this restructuring, institutions will continue to be wound up? If so, what is the reason for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u26	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're investigating was adopted by the government on April 21st. At that time, we read in the press release that the government adopted a draft amendment to the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, which provides for the adaptation of Polish legislation to the EU regulation on forced restructuring of banks. Well, between April and today it has been almost a month and I wanted to know who the government consulted about the draft law and what opinions were issued on this matter. The reasons for this proposal, which Members have received, do not include any record that the government should consult with anyone. There is not a word in the description of the course of the work before sending this project to the Sejm, including what Members have received, that any government (the bell) would consult with anybody. Minister! I kindly ask that the draft opinions obtained by the government on this matter, if any, be forwarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u28	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'm still going back to my earlier statement in this question. I would ask you very much to answer the question: What comments did the SKOK community bring to the project? Was it written opinions or just oral consultations? I would very much ask you to answer the question: How did these comments of the SKOK extend the preparation of this law? I would very much ask the Ministry to answer these questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u30	Thank you, sir. Last question, Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u31	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My predecessors have already mentioned the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank. I will remind you that in October 2020, the court declared the bank bankrupt. According to the Act - Insolvency Law, the Bank Guarantee Fund, which carried out the compulsory restructuring process, filed an application for bankruptcy of the bank. After the bankruptcy, customers were transferred to Bank Nowy BFG. Unfortunately, some creditors lost their money. It is estimated that the bondholders for the restructuring of PBS lost about PLN 100 million. Only local authorities that had deposits received aid from the government because it was possible to grant this aid from the general subsidy reserve. But, Minister, on the example of this (Bingle) bank, I wanted to ask: can these new regulations that we are introducing protect Polish banks from such a situation as the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u32	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions raised by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by asking Mr Nobleman a question. The rules are a pure implementation of the EU, and so the Polish state, including its institutions such as KNF or PFG, in the case of MREL-able institutions, and unfortunately we have dealt with such institutions in the case of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanoku, cannot compensate for them in any way. However, the problem really arose and the BFG noted it and implemented some solutions which, of course, will not be across EU rules, but will prevent such situations for the future, and I think that during the BFG committee it will be able to say a little more about it. The bill itself, as I mentioned at the beginning, contains provisions that make it difficult to enter into these so-called laws. MREL-available instruments, which means they won't be... They have never been, but they will not be available to an ordinary investor, but to institutions aware of the risks of these situations. So that we reduce risks, while EU rules We're tied here. As for the questions of Mr Urbaniak and Mr Pasyk, I will stop for a moment. Mr Urbaniak has, or rather has read, only a little slower, issues concerning the SKOKs. I'll remind you again. I said it was consulted, including with the SKOKs. And now what that means. These rules generally complement those already in force in the banking sector. On the other hand, as regards the SKOK sector, they extend the responsibility which has so far been applied to banks, i.e. SKOK-i are placed under the procedure of MREL-able instruments and resolution instruments, i.e. the supervision of state institutions over SKOKs is increasing. It does not reduce, my fellow Members. And those 140 pages you were talking about. I'm sure you've read them, and you've noticed in these regulations that the burden on the SKOK sector on the basis of this amendment is increasing proportionally more than the banking sector, and that's because the banking sector has already been covered by the MREL and resolution rules and the SKOK sector has not. So in such situations, normal legislative practice is that those who are burdened with greater responsibilities make more comments and these comments require more clarification than for those who are burdened with less responsibilities. That is the logic, my fellow Members. Perhaps these 140 pages need to be read again, and I would be happy to do so with you at the committee meeting. Minister, please address the MPs a little differently, really. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Sure, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] We will perfectly demonstrate that these issues concerning resolution rules and provisions on MREL instruments also apply to the SKOK sector. This raised doubts and we have clarified these doubts, but we have not taken them into account in the form that we have excluded them from the scope of these provisions. That's the SKOK sector. They are in force, so here I would like to reassure you. Mrs Hennig-Kloska pointed out that these are 140 pages that really need more analysis. I agree. If it's the committee's decision on the subcommittee, we'll talk about it. There is no doubt here, and during these meetings there will also be representatives and representatives of KNF and BFG, so they will be able to answer these questions. Mrs Czernow - when it comes to working time and time pressure, I guarantee that there will be no time pressure here. If we need a longer conversation, we don't mind. The deadline for implementation is following us, but, as I have already stressed, I prefer that this deadline be exceeded - so that it is still delayed by a month or two, but that it does not raise any doubts - than it actually did at one committee meeting. So that here I guarantee you that there will really be no rush. This is a clear statement. You also asked about a conflict of interest concerning the involvement of a banking sector representative in the BFG. It was a conclusion, among others. The AMF is saying that there is a conflict of interest between these entities. So what I'm saying is that it's not here. This is also the analysis of the EU institutions. Here, in general, we do not intend to take these comments into account. If it's necessary, we'll be explaining it on the committee as well. On the other hand, this remark will not be taken into account. With regard to Mr Tomaszewski's question on the financial consequences, these effects concern only the General Prosecutor's Office. This is essentially to strengthen the Public Prosecutor's Office for persons who, if necessary, represent the State Treasury in questionable situations. So that here these financial implications are generally low on a budget scale. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here we are indeed breaking the principle of not creating additional jobs, but sometimes it is worth breaking it in such situations that the Polish state is protected. And the last important question, Mr Szopiński, is the public consultation. He also asked why it had passed a month between the Council of Ministers' adoption of this proposal and today when we are considering it. The answer to this question is very simple. It was prepared in the law commission of the Government Legislative Center. The longer the bill is, the longer the law commission works. Therefore, it was not any additional consultation, it was not an agreement, it was only legislative work. As regards the issues of comments made during the arrangements and consultations, they are on the pages of the Government Legislative Centre, so that all of this is public. However, if there were also questions, we will present this and we can make this information available already, because it is not on the pages of the Government's Legislative Center. On the other hand, the proposal from 21 April in no way substantively, because it has necessarily changed, has not changed. No additional arrangements or consultations were carried out. Of course, there were questions, as in the Ministry of Finance, but these were no longer agreements or consultations leading to substantive changes in the project. So that to the decision of the state I leave the way to proceed - whether on the committee or in the subcommittee. Both me and BFG and KNF are at our disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u34	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing... Your marshal, one sentence. I was called by a name. But that doesn't give us any reason to make an appearance. Excuse me, sir. It's about the bill. But, sir, you had your time. There isn't, there isn't. The Minister didn't question your statement. He was giving answers. Excuse me. I'm closing... Marshal, I state that Members regarding the progress of the work prior to the referral... Okay, one minute, please. I do not know in what way, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u35	Dear Marshal! In corrigendum, to the Minister. On the web page under the name: The course of work before the project is sent to the Sejm unfortunately Members do not have the opportunity to read the opinions which have been addressed to the Minister on this matter. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to convey these opinions to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u36	The Minister, as I recall, said that at the Government Legislature Center at... In what mode, sir? Corrections. Good. You're welcome. There isn't. You're gonna let everyone in, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Marshal, I would like to thank you very much for being so rude about the Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Minister, answering questions, only a few epithets addressed to me and Mr Paszyk, threw away, without answering two simple questions, very important. Mr Paszyk did not ask what changes concern the SKOK sector, but asked about the consultation procedure with the SKOKs. And you didn't say a word. I asked the question about all the provisions that go beyond the EU Directive. This is a very important question in the perspective of the bank for gold and various strange magazines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you didn't answer either. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u38	Thank you. Mr Paszyk, in what mode? In corrigendum mode. I've been mentioned, and it's in such an elegant tone... But... Just please follow the correction procedure, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u39	Marshal, thank you very much. In corrigendum mode. First of all, I also thank your marshal very much for his elegant behaviour towards me, secondly, Minister, I would like, on behalf of my colleagues, to ask for a more elegant behaviour towards Members whose right in this Chamber is to ask, and your duty is to answer exhaustively the questions asked, not to ironise and insult. I don't understand why you're so nervous about the questions that have been asked. I ask once again to unveil the backgrounds of the consultation of this bill, very important in the context of the operation of financial institutions, with the environment of the SKOKs, and thus also the Senator of the PiS Mr Bierecki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u40	Thank you very much. The Minister is prepared to answer briefly the consultation question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u41	Five minutes, so that too... No, no. Please... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: No, no, I'm saying I wasn't able to answer anything in five minutes. On the other hand, as far as consultation is concerned, I'm calming down. The consultation of the SKOKs was the same as with any interested party during the project arrangement. So that here the SKOKs were not preferentially treated in any way, they were treated in the same way as the banking sector. And these comments from the SKOKs were made in an official manner. So that it was not an informal consultation, I assure you both. I hope this answer is exhausting the subject. If not, I'll try to develop it at the committee meeting. I think that as far as the second question is concerned, it will be enough to answer in writing, because it will really take a few minutes to discuss it. I will also explain this at the committee meeting. In general, legislation that is not an implementation of EU legislation deals with issues that improve the resolution process. These are the requests made by the Bank Guarantee Fund. I hope that's enough for now. During the committee meeting, we will try to develop the subject together with President Tomaszewski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring system and certain other laws contained in print No 1164 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 22 June 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for human and civil rights in 2020 together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (prints Nos 976 and 1167). I kindly ask the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, to present the information. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u43	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! I am aware and convinced that this is my last appearance in front of the High House as an ombudsman. I would like to stress that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 15 April I treat and evaluate as unlawful. In my view, its unlawfulness is further underlined by the recent ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in Xero Flor v. Poland, in which the judgment of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg assessed the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, but the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal ruling in the Official Journal of the Law is published makes it impossible for me to adapt to the fact that the legal standard allowing the Ombudsman to carry out his duties will cease to apply and, unfortunately, will have to comply with that judgment. I believe that perhaps by 15 July the Sejm and the Senate will be able to choose my successor, then the consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will be less than we assume. Allow me to put my speech today in a slightly broader context, not just to provide information on the Ombudsman's actions and to comply with citizens' rights in 2020, as required by the Act. It so happens that I have the opportunity to sum up and close the entire 5-year term, and since we have the second half of May 2021, it is also an opportunity to identify the current risks related to the protection of human rights and the citizen. I would like to stress that the fact that I was able to do the ombudsman's job was and is a great honour to me. I had the privilege of being a follow-up to the actions of the previous spokespersons who built the authority of this office. In each term of office, the Ombudsman faces different challenges. My term of office was particularly relevant in the recent history of our country, times when citizens needed more and more support, and power was doing a lot to limit the capacity of the Ombudsman's office in terms of both legal and institutional terms and financial terms. Unfortunately, at this time there has been an unprecedented legal chaos. Many times the constitution has been violated and the principle of three divisions of authorities in the state has been violated, many public institutions have lost the characteristics of independence previously assigned to them by the constitution and the law. For nearly 6 years, we have been heading towards a country where power is centralised, a country where problems of the rule of law and respect for democratic standards are growing. Unfortunately, it's not just my assessment. Signals in this direction are also sent by reputable international organisations, the European Union and various other institutions. It is also worth noting the deteriorating position of Poland in the rankings concerning democracy, civil liberties and freedom of speech. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has emerged in the last year, which has led to the accumulation of many previously unsolved social and legal problems. New threats to civil rights have also arisen. However, throughout this period, the Ombudsman's office worked so that no problem could be left unanswered. The result was that the Ombudsman received more than 72 thousand last year. letters and signals from citizens. This is an increase of 22% compared to 2019. The Ombudsman worked intensively, acted before national authorities and joined administrative and judicial proceedings. He also joined the cases pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, the most important problems of 2020 are pandemics and various issues of personal freedom, freedom of movement, religious freedom, freedom to organise peaceful assembly or freedom to conduct business. In fact, there was no subject which would not have been the subject of reflection by the Ombudsman. One of the reasons for the intervention was also the organisation of presidential elections scheduled for 10 May, which did not take place. The subsequent elections also resulted in a number of complaints addressed to the Ombudsman's Office. Many interventions and actions have been linked to the rights of LGBT+ persons. This was the result, among others. very sad events of 7 August, when 48 people were detained after the solidarity demonstration, but also the adoption by local authorities of resolutions against the ideology of LGBT, against which I acted (the bell) before administrative courts. How much more time do I have, Marshal? Time's up. The time has been set for 5 minutes, such rules apply. We're asking for more. Scandal! Please continue, Mr Spokesperson, but focus actually on matters of importance, because the first minute you spent evaluating your person, you evaluated the next two minutes of democratically elected institutions of the Polish State. So I am prolonging time, but really focus on the 2020 report. Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In that case, maybe I can give you the key issues that concern human rights. I've already said a lot about pandemics. Of course, issues related to the rule of law crisis, as well as the consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020, which strengthened the anti-abortion rules, were very important in 2020. And all these consequences, especially in the context of the organisation of demonstrations, were held by the Ombudsman's office. In 2020, significant successes were achieved in improving the situation of foreign exchange credit holders and in repealing resolutions against LGBT ideology by four administrative courts. The Supreme Court also held on 16 September 2020 that individual actions should be taken into account when reducing the pension benefits of employees and PRL officials rather than merely belonging to the service. This is, I think, an important sentence from the point of view of limiting the effects of the Repressive Act of 16 December 2016. Also as a result of the Ombudsman's conclusions, several senate draft laws on systemic changes in Polish law were prepared. With regard to such proposals for the future - because I believe that this is also my role, because the Ombudsman informs not only about the activity but also about the status of respect for human rights and the citizen - I would like to remind you of the 1985 quote, which was included in the report prepared by the experts of the illegal then-Solidarity. The conclusions of the chapter on the rule of law say: First of all, the very thinking of the rule of law and the use of the law by the authorities must be changed. From the instrument of the state dictatorship towards society and individuals, the law must be transformed into a mechanism that creates a system of mutual rights and obligations. Only with this understanding of law can it be effectively demanded to be respected by citizens and contribute to the growth of culture and legal awareness in society. It was also stressed that judicial independence and independent justice should be ensured. Courts cannot be regarded as an instrument pursuing government policy. It seems to me that 36 years later it is worth recalling this request for Solidarity, because it is unfortunately valid from the point of view of the relationship between the state and the entity. Secondly, I would like to address civil society. Dr. Janusz Kochanowski, one of my predecessors, said this: There are no rights and freedoms without a functioning institution of a strong legal state created by free citizens. There are no free citizens and a strong state without civil society that promotes civic virtues and a sense of responsibility for the common good. I would like to emphasise this because this is the foundation of the protection of civil rights and freedoms. If we do not care about civil society, which enjoys freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of peaceful assembly, right to petitions, right of access to public information, then we will not be able to protect citizens' rights and freedoms. [[Applause]] And finally, basically, the most important thing I wanted to say today is a pandemic. Let us consider in May 2021 what lessons we will learn from it. Will we move on to the death order of about 100,000? people, will we wonder how the Polish state was prepared for this situation? Because it wasn't just a crisis. According to the UN Secretary-General, this has been the biggest health, social, economic tragedy in the world since World War II. And we need to learn from it. We must follow the principle of public accountability, that is, the accountability of public authorities. Firstly, we must undertake a comprehensive analysis of all the procedures and mechanisms that have failed in all areas of social life: health, social assistance, education, the functioning of public authorities. Secondly, we need to create a compensation fund for victims, especially all those families who have lost their loved ones because of the negligence of public authorities. Thirdly, we must compensate for the losses of entrepreneurs who have lost powerful assets and income, in accordance with the constitutional principles of public authority's liability for damages. Finally, we must - and most importantly - draw conclusions on the repair of the functioning of the Polish state. This message, which also follows from the Ombudsman's annual report, should be implemented. And that's the responsibility of all public authorities, that's the responsibility also local authorities. This should also be the programme task of the parliamentary and non-legislative opposition. This should also be a challenge for civil society organisations. We must not forget, we must not go indifferently to the next tasks, challenges or implementation of the overdue plans, because we owe the memory and diligence of all victims of the Coronavirus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. We'll connect remotely. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[A Member's statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was authorised by the committee to present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2020 with observations on the status of respect for human and civil rights, print No 976. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 24 February 2021 to be heard. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the aforementioned. information and held a discussion at its meeting on 18 May 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u46	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Krzysztof July. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to express my views on the Ombudsman's information, which was presented orally here today, and earlier, in the form of a literary work, as was called at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, although this literary work does not differ from the earlier information that was presented... Scandal. What are you talking about? ...and as far as the editorial garment is concerned, it's worse than the ones that were previously presented. But with regard to this today's information presented here, the most important point that you yourself have put forward is that this is his last speech before the High House, the last time he provides information about the state of compliance with civil rights and freedoms. That's not the most important thing. And praise for that, because indeed the Ombudsman's term of office ended in September last year, as confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal, acting on the basis of the motion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no tribunal. There is no doubt that a constitutional standard cannot be challenged by a statutory standard, and I am surprised that the Ombudsman, a doctor of habilitation of rights, does not understand such things. You don't understand. And I also wanted to point out that if you are defending the Polish rule of law, it is incomprehensible to me that you understand that this is the end of your term of office, on the basis of an unlawful judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to point out to the Constitutional Authority that this formulation of thoughts in this House is simply highly reprehensible. It can't be like this. The Constitutional Tribunal is a legal judicial authority in Poland, there is no doubt about it, and the Ombudsman should not talk about such matters. You'll be settled, too. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this is the greatest tragedy in functioning and performing... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr President, I am so sorry. Mr President, you are giving yourself a card, your culture. Excuse me. [[Game in the O.R.]] Let's respect each other, my fellow Member, shall we? ...the Ombudsman's office is that it has never been the same in the history of this office as it was in the present Ombudsman's day. Worse than Minister Patkowski. Mr. President, how do you... Too much involvement in a political dispute, as we have witnessed today, does not build up the authority of this office, on the contrary, very strongly undermines this authority, because the Ombudsman should be above the policy that takes place here in the Sejm, where the law is created. The Ombudsman should apply this right. It is difficult to consider the proper functioning of this Ombudsman's office when the Ombudsman commends people who are disrupting the legal order of the Republic of Poland, praises the activist and leader of the strike of women in the Senate, calling her a prominent social activist, which is shameful because this person, taking people out on the streets during the pandemic period... Kaczyński brought them out. Come down now. ...not only risked the health of those people who participated in the protests, the scale of it was much wider. It is not possible to agree with the Ombudsman who criticises the public authorities of the Republic of Poland... That's what it's for. 100,000. Victims. 150,000. ...for not taking care of the country of the Polish people who are experiencing a global crisis in connection with the pandemic of Coronavirus. It is for me that international bodies, like the European Commission, who have issued a laurel for the Polish government, are more authority in this matter. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The highest mortality rate. Does it hurt? You're in pain. I'm rather embarrassed, sir. Please, let us speak freely. Let us speak freely. You're in a lot of pain. Ladies and gentlemen! Is that what your democracy is about, to disturb the voice of another parliamentarian? This is democracy? After all, the Member behaves worse than Minister Patkowski. That is democracy in the execution of a total opposition. And that's what's disgraceful. I want to assure you that no one will bother you. You'll say whatever you like. [[Game in the O.R.]] Bullshit. You're not here. You weren't here a moment ago either. That's what you think. The bullshit specialists are you guys, and we just had proof of that. The level of hypocrisy is improbable. Six seconds. Good. The level of your hypocrisy is judged by the voters. Shall we continue? I represent most of this room here on this floor, which also translates into most of the society that it gives... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anyway, time is running out. Time's running out. This isn't my ombudsman... Very good. ...for my rights as a representative of the majority of this society have never been defended by an ombudsman. For example, it is a violation of the dignity of a man associated with religious freedom. It cannot be that the Ombudsman praises those who strike at the rights and freedoms of other citizens, and this has been the case and today we have had a strong expression. In conclusion, because time is running out, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I wanted to declare - because we have no other option - that the information provided by the Ombudsman is taken into account, although we do not agree with many of the actions that the Ombudsman has taken and most of the time has not taken. And that is the main charge that the Ombudsman, as a person strongly involved in civil disputes, did not carry out his constitutional tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Put your messenger on the stand...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u48	Thank you very much, sir. Your marshal, with a formal motion. In what mode? With a formal application. Chairman Tomczyk, would you mind? You're the one making a formal request on behalf of the President? You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. ...I stand closer just like that. You'll hear me better, Marshal. You're so screaming in this room, you're very good to hear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a request for adjournment until the government arrives here in these benches. [[Applause]] Where is the government today when one of the most important debates in this Sejm is on the state of civil rights in our country. After what we've seen, I'm not surprised the government's embarrassed. We saw women getting drunk on Polish streets, we saw how the assembly could not be held - this was done by the government. That's what government services did. I'm not surprised the government's not here, but the government should be here. Don't be ashamed, don't hide behind empty benches. So, Marshal, please intervene in this matter. The debate that is taking place in this Chamber is historic. Perhaps at this very moment one of the last independent institutions in the Polish state, the institution of the Ombudsman, which you want to treat exactly the same as you have treated the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court or the Polish prosecutor's office. And every time it ends the same - the fall of these institutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. The fall of these institutions. Please intervene. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. At such points, I do not recall, and I am a parliamentarian not the first term of office for the government to be present during the speech of the Ombudsman. So is your government. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club... But there's a formal conclusion. ... The Civic Coalition will address Mr Szczerba. I've filed a formal motion to vote immediately. This is not a proposal under the Rules of Procedure. There's no obligation in this period... What do you mean, no? But, excuse me, is this cultural behavior? What are you presenting right now? Those giggles, those screams... Your Marshal, please adjourn. There's a formal conclusion, and you know it. If you don't, call the Seniors Convention. You're breaking the rules. Formal motion, please vote immediately. Applies to points in the schedule. There's an O.R. The O.R. wants to speak. I'm asking for a formal motion. You know perfectly well that the vote is managed by the Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal of the Seym is Mrs Elizabeth Witek. Then I'd like to take a break and call your marshal. I'm in session right now. Do I understand that Mr Szczerba will not speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition? He's gonna give a speech. You're welcome, sir. It doesn't matter. You're in session, Marshal. But there's a formal conclusion! Formal conclusion! There is no Marshal of the Sejm, and the Marshal of the Sejm manages the vote. Would you like to... You want to take a break right now, right? Yes. In that case, I'm announcing a five-minute break, thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 12 h 10 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 35 of the agenda. We will return to the proposed formal proposal in the voting block [[Joy in the Chamber]] Next week, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] And right now, please, another speech on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome, sir. But there is no government, Your Marshal. Where's the government? Comedy. We can vote next Friday, but the government is still gone. This best illustrates the state of Polish parliamentarianism. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u51	Mrs. Marshal! This break was to get the government to come to this room. The government to which the Ombudsman's information is addressed. But there's one more thing I'd like to say, Marshal. The information is addressed to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. There's one more thing I'd like to say, Marshal. That's five minutes after five years of working for the ombudsman, that's your only and true five Kaczyńskis. It is today that you fund the Polish society. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Ombudsman's information is not, as Mr July said, a literary work. The Ombudsman's information is a mirror. Your mirror. And this mirror should be clean. It's not about powdering reality to put filters on it. You have to tell people what it's like, so they can see the power and institutions in it. And that information is a mirror. Ladies and gentlemen! Information from the Ombudsman of 70,000. letters, reports, interventions are not only a diagnosis, but also a prescription for the crisis. The Pandemic showed all the weaknesses of the state. Seven and a half thousand. COVID deaths. Excessive deaths caused by the health crisis. Critical situation in oncology. 25% less fast oncology cards. Health care is at the border. From this place Minister Niedzielski lied, saying that oncology is a green island. We see what it's like today. Vaccinal crisis, High Izbo. Power could not and could not encourage vaccination. In June there will be several thousand new vaccines. There's only gonna be one problem. There won't be anyone to vaccinate with them. The year 2020, High Izbo, are also symbols. It's a telescopic baton smashed on the head of a photojournalist. It's a broken hand of an 18-year-old girl. It's the gas on the faces of the Sejm's messengers and the increasingly unpunished and insolent police in the hands of politicians. That's installing a judge from the National Court nomination as the first president of the Supreme Court. Those are Tuley's names, Juszczyszyn. They're independent prosecutors who should be respected by us. Adam Bodnar was not just a guide to the rule of law. Adam Bodnar was above all an active defender of the rule of law. [[Applause]] Today, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, on behalf of citizens and citizens, I would like to express my highest respect for him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u52	Thank you very much, sir. If I may, I would like to point out that it wasn't five minutes, but well over 10, and I didn't shorten my speech, so the attention was completely shot. How can you not? That's how you like to discuss it. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I am concerned about the future of the Ombudsman's office. Because instead of a trustworthy person, instead of a person able to act over divisions, instead of a person who enjoys the support of civil society, the authorities are looking for an ombudsman among active power politicians. And yet the ombudsman can't be ours or yours. The Ombudsman must be a citizen, because only then will he be a shield between citizens and citizens and the authorities and their organs. I don't want to talk about statistics today. This, taking into account thousands of letters, cases, hundreds of administrative and judicial proceedings, several hundred opinions, applications and speeches to the authorities, by means of cases which, thanks to the Ombudsman, are pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights, shows a great deal of exemplary work that you have done with your colleagues, the work needed and expected by the citizens at that difficult time when the power tramples citizens' rights. However, I am apprehensive about the future, because your work as an ombudsman, an ombudsman of human affairs, contrary to the Constitution, the authorities want to replace a political nominator who would become a puppet listening to the President, the Prime Minister and the Party. As we have recently heard, there is an idea that the Ombudsman's office should be linked to the Ministry of Justice, which would mean that it would be terminated. If that happens, who will defend democracy? Who's gonna be the constitutional guardian if the president abdicated in this role? Who will fight discrimination on grounds of race, sexual orientation, or world view during the time of power's consent to homophobia, anti-Semitism and hatred, but also divisions? Who will defend the victims and the weak? Who will defend Poles whose power restricts laws, intimidates them and sends policemen armed with batons on them? We want and will defend the constitutional independence of the Ombudsman's role. On behalf of the Civil Coalition, I promise this to you and your colleagues. We will oppose attempts to remove the Ombudsman from his duties before his successor or successor is elected, because it would not only be illegal, but would also deprive the citizen and the citizens of basic support from the constitutional office, and we cannot allow that to happen. Mr. Spokesman, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, Professor! I have an extraordinary honour and great pleasure to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left regarding information about the Ombudsman's activities for 2020. Before I proceed to the analysis of the information presented, on behalf of all members and members of the left club, as well as our voters and voters, I would like to thank you, Professor, for serving Poland for over five years. Your report today and your presence in the Sejm are probably your last meeting with Parliament. Your term of office is passing, and your last term is so-called. the so-called judgment. The Constitutional Tribunal in an incomprehensible, political way reduced your office. So-called. The tribunal issued a ruling that eliminated a fuse from legal trading, a fuse for citizens, which, in the absence of a new Ombudsman's choice, gave citizens the opportunity to exercise their constitutional right to complain and seek protection from an independent body. Yes, Law and Justice did not anger Adam Bodnar, it simply took away the rights of citizens. Mr July said today that this is not his spokesperson. And that's the point of the problem, you, on the right, think that if the institution isn't yours, it shouldn't exist at all. I would also like to express my thanks to your deputies, because they are very rarely mentioned: Mr Stanisław Trociuk, [[Applause]] professional, dedicated Polish official, organizer of office work, Dr. Hanna Machinska, [[Applause]] whose work as head of the national prevention mechanism has been noticed, particularly in recent months. It was her every hour of the day and night from the precinct to the precinct, every phone call, driving all over Warsaw, and not only, checking that the rights of the detained are not violated. You often encouraged young people who gained civic experience when they violently collided with the Polish state. Thanks to Dr. Maciej Taborowski, [[Applause]] which led to the Ombudsman's voice being seen and heard in international proceedings. We also address great respect and thanks to the entire team of the Ombudsman's Office. [[Applause]] These are hundreds of employees and hundreds of employees who create a unique national team. Always available, always professional, always dedicated and embarrassingly low-paying. It's the shame and remorse of every parliament. It is a shame that should be felt by all parliamentarians who have for years put their hand in lowering the ombudsman's budget, which in 2020 is equal to the 2013 budget, with an increased mandate, with increased tasks, with increased expectations. It's just a shame. Professor! This annual information is a document that we Members must consider as a kind of message and a task for Parliament. You have pointed to nodal problems, in fact barriers, which hinder the exercise of full human rights and civil liberties: from the principle of equality to the right to life, through personal immunity, the right to asylum, union freedom, property rights and the right to equal access to healthcare services. Annual information shows deficits on the palm of the hand, and these are not merely theoretical considerations. Each page of information is a story of a particular man, a particular individual who asked your office for help. And it's not a literary work, it's history. thousands of people, thousands of Poles and Poles left behind by the state, which you have made invisible. It was you, Professor, and your office led by you that were often the last resort for these people. Over 70,000. complaints, a record number that entered the Ombudsman's Office. The question is, is that a good thing? Is that a bad thing? However, it is probably not a good indication of the condition of the Polish state, which leads to the fact that citizens are referring their affairs massly to the spokesman, this last board of rescue. Professor! Thank you again for your work, for your commitment. For the last 5.5 years, you have witnessed how to stop the nasty attacks, how to stand and stand by the Constitution, with a man who is in need. You set an extremely high standard, a standard of work for a successor or a successor. I wish you, on behalf of the Left Club, all the best, first of all rest (the bell), rest from attacks, rest from the disgusting interest of the rulers. Thank you, sir. I believe that your experience, your commitment and your energy... Thank you very much. ...will be used in the future for the benefit of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u56	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Professor! For many months I have wondered why this aggression on the part of the United Right, why these insults, why these countless disgraceful attacks in the government media against the Ombudsman of civil rights Prof. Adam Bodnar. The answer comes relatively easily. The reason is fear, because what Mr Adam Bodnar has identified for more than five years is the very foreign qualities of the United Right. Citizen support, social solidarity, cooperation and finally trust-based bodies These are the alien features of the United Right, these are the qualities that arouse far-reaching fear and hence these attacks. The year 2020 at the Ombudsman's Office is, as has already been done today, over 70,000. cases of Poles and Poles brought to this office. More than 20%, ladies and gentlemen, more than in 2019. These are not matters lined up with ideology, as the representatives of the United Right say with stubbornness, but these are matters brought by desperate Poles, not despairing of their powerlessness, but the ignorance of power and its organs, which leave Poles today increasingly to themselves, because they do not belong to the only right party. That's why they go door to door, knock on the door for help. And they finally end up in the Ombudsman's office. There are ordinary, average issues of normal human affairs, everyday affairs. Today, on behalf of the Polish Coalition - PSL, which I represent, I would like to make it clear to those who have doubts: the Ombudsman's Office recognizes the affairs of ordinary people, not ideology, not some imaginary nonsense, [[Applause]] who are told by representatives of the United Right. Professor, for the 70,000. I would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u58	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Professor! We met for the first time in the European Parliament, I do not know if you remember this, where you presented the case of detained foreigners, interrogated on the territory of the military unit in Stare Kiekuta. Even if I didn't always agree with you at the time, I understood your mission and admired the way you did your mission. I also admire, and I say this on behalf of my colleagues from the European Union of Democrats, this five-year term, because indeed, as at the time, you were always on the side of the weaker and always on the side of minorities. Most can be supported, most can be understood, but it does not need to be defended. You have to defend those who are in minority. And you did it perfectly. You claimed the rights of the disabled, you fought for the subjectivity and respect of seniors, you defended the franchise who had just been harmed by a strong banking system, young people who had to borrow mortgages. in francs... They didn't have to. They didn't have to do anything. ...to start a new life in their own apartment because they didn't have an alternative. The bankers took it from them then. And you were defending Finally, minorities, including moral ones. Indeed, it has come to you to fulfil this function in very difficult times, the most difficult in the history of Polish citizens' rights, in times which are an attempt of character. And you've been through an excellent test. What we have heard here, in this Chamber, from the mouth of a representative of Law and Justice, don't worry. In the times of Gomułkowszczy and Cyrankiewicz region, there was also talk about appendages who do not comply with the law, about watchdogs and about hands that need to be cut off, as they are raised to power. Mr... We know this, we've lived it, and we'll survive it, no matter who's going to be a p.o. ombudsman. Finally, on my own behalf, I would like to say that on one specific point I also agree with you - al. In a building in which the Constitutional Tribunal once held office, it should be said: Your Honor, not the High Court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u60	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak on behalf of the Confederate Group. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Doctor! Last time you were in this room, I said I saw an excellent, wonderful candidate of the Left for President, and you are a misunderstanding as a ombudsman. And you're here in your reaction to prove your thesis that you think he's your spokesperson. You show him enthusiasm, not the whole room, for example. Not us. We're 90% We vote differently than the PiS, but we agree that the spokesperson did not represent us. I'll give you one example. A man named Mateusz Piskorski, a man with an exact opposite option than ours, was arrested and sat in prison for almost three years without trial, and the spokesperson did not lift a finger. If Mr. Mateusz Piskorski were Altiero, a sexual pervert, then the spokesperson would be sitting there and after three days Mr. Piskorski would be released. Keep an eye on the language. So that's the primary problem. But the real problem is that the Ombudsman presented almost 72,000. the things he was leading. This is the one person who does this, who replaces the President, the Sejm, runs for us and defends these people. This shows, the very existence of this institution makes the others feel exempt from duty, because that's what the spokesperson is for, isn't it? The Ombudsman duplicates state institutions and because he is unable to take care of everyone, because as one man is to take care of 72 thousand. cases, soon it will be necessary to appoint a spokesman for those who have not been dealt with by the Ombudsman. This is complete nonsense. The existence of your spokesperson shows that this institution is completely unnecessary and harmful, because it demonstrates that the State is acting badly. Right. Money and effort must be directed to the state's repair, not to the construction of the institutions that you are repairing. The state building must be built solidly, not put money into the construction of scaffolds that support the state. Thank you very much. A friend of Urbaniak's over there...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u62	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak in the second part of the speech of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Not since yesterday we know that you have a very specific agenda, consistently implemented over the years. We are aware that in 2020 you had a lot of work, even with laws that were questionable constitutionally. On the other hand, you have not neglected your ideological horse, or radical left-wing agenda. As your spokesperson, you have advocated the introduction of mandatory classes for rainbow Fridays. Experience has shown that such anti-discrimination education is contrary to the name suggesting non-controversiality of the programme of explicit ideology of young children or the introduction of postulates in the spirit of specific sexual practices. That's the truth. These are your ideas, really. You questioned the constitution and misled the public. You suggested that the police take into account the homo-, bi- or transphobic motive of the perpetrators, but in a situation where the belligerent or insulted were Catholics, you were indifferent. You have not responded to numerous cases of insulting religious symbols, to the obscene parody of the procession of God's Body in Gdansk, to the vulgar spectacle of the curse or to the behaviour of the musician Nergal who destroyed Mary's paintings. In that case, everything was fine, right? As your spokesperson, you emphasized that there is no right to abortion, and yet you stated that in Poland it was too difficult to carry out abortions. You also referred to the concept of reproductive rights, sexual rights. Such terms do not appear in Polish law. Just because they don't work in the law doesn't mean they don't exist. I would like to remind you that you have neglected to fight for one of the fundamental rights, the right to life. You attacked local governments that introduced a declaration for family rights. You manipulated the facts about an IKEA employee by presenting a picture only on the one hand from your employer. Thank you, sir. We're not asking for more.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u64	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u65	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Very good, Mr. Spokesman. Close to people and their affairs. Citizen PL.: It goes to Poland and few people want to talk about national policy, and the rights of the elderly, environmental protection, road construction or the issue of safe disposal of waste in the municipality are important topics. And this book, this year's information, could be called Adam Bodnar. Polish citizen. The Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 expresses its extraordinary admiration for the activities of the Ombudsman. The confidence in the Ombudsman's institution is 64% citizens, and the lack of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal, in comparison, expresses half of Poles. Almost 200 cases a day. As a result, 515 speeches in general only to the central authorities of the State. You often switched offices in Warsaw for visits to different parts of the country. It's a state report, it's a ready-made academic textbook, a ready-made law textbook, but, Michael, it's also a great, exciting, addictive reading at any time of the day and night. In this report, you are talking about violations of rights and freedoms during a pandemic. It's a reading about respecting and protecting the values that are valuable to people, about the brutality of the ruthless police in driving peaceful assembly, about the unfairly imposed penalties on their participants in draconian punishments, about the rapid action of the authorities when citizens had to be punished, and about the pace of the marauder, when they had to be helped. You were against hate speech. You show that in Poland too many laws are still being broken. I once asked you about your favorite sailing. I asked if you'd go far away to forget what was going on around us. And then you answered me: In many people I see fatigue with a political debate, they go to the so-called. Internal emigration, and I think it's a risky attitude, because if we go on a cruise around the world like this, if we let it go, what country would we go back to? We do not want this country to be arranged as it is today, so different from our imaginations and ambitions. You're right. A PL citizen, a Polish citizen Adam Bodnar, for over 5 years gave us the belief that Poland could be a country of dreams, could be a country of ambition for each of us, but also showed, also in this book and in this information, how much more needs to be fixed in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050, in the second part of the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u67	Ladies and gentlemen! The contrast between the Ombudsman's report and the annual information of the Constitutional Tribunal recently discussed in the High House is significant. The documents differ not only in size; the Ombudsman's report consists of 671 pages, while the Court's information is seven times less. The Ombudsman's report deals with the main problems and discusses in detail the risks to all constitutional rights and freedoms. However, the information provided by the Constitutional Tribunal hurts the lacrimality and the concealment of uncomfortable facts. The question which institution makes better use of public funds is rhetorical in this context. In the report, the Ombudsman pointed out a great deal of important and inconclusive facts and processes in our country. In a special way he leaned over the method of enforcing the so-called. Pandemic restrictions, which in practice meant the brutality and ruthlessness of police in driving peaceful assembly or imposing on them by sanitary inspection of draconian administrative penalties with immediate feasibility. We should give our full appreciation to Adam Bodnar and his deputy Dr. Hanna Machinska, who not only protested the abuse of power by the state authorities, but also intervened at police stations. Dear Ombudsman, For years, you've been a model for all of us as an institution that works well... Not for everyone. ...in defense of the citizens, a model of efficiency and modesty, the diligence and service we would like to see in all aspects of the state. In fact, you've defined them for us again, setting us a high bar. In the sea of political corruption, abuse and violence against citizens, you were a clear island on which hope and refuge were found harmed by the system. Soon she will cease to exist. But in the words of Pablo Neruda, you can cut out all the flowers, but you will not delay the spring. Your report is a profound diagnosis that should be used to repair the Republic of Poland. As Poland 2050, we commit that on its basis we will rebuild (the bell) a country, a more sensitive Poland, fair, connecting rather than dividing. Thank you very much. Today we thank you for your enormous work. We promise we'll continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u68	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice. [[The Group of Members of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 gives flowers to the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The report states that more than 72 000 have been received by the Ombudsman in 2020. cases. This is compared to the previous year's increase by more than 20%, which could have been linked to the pandemic period and the resulting restrictions. I would like to ask the Ombudsman: Has the Ombudsman's office carried out a detailed territorial analysis of these requests? Can we say from which voivodships influence the most applications to the Ombudsman's office? The second question concerns the age structure of citizens who have guided their proposals. Can it be said that most of the cases affected mainly older people or middle-aged people? Finally, I would like to express my conviction that the Ombudsman, who ends this extended term, deliberately polarized the citizens by engaging for the first time in history... Thank you very much. ...the functioning of the Ombudsman's office is politically clear... Thank you, sir. Mr. President, the minute was. ...standing on one side of the political scene. Everyone will have 20 seconds more. Thank you very much, sir. So he was not a spokesperson for citizens, for all citizens, but for parts of them. Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition. So he was a seminarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u70	Marshal, you're welcome to ask the question. Everyone's about to have a minute and a half. It's a suggestion. For the time being, sir, I decide. I'm sorry. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! It's another sad day in our Seym. Today, from the mouth of the representative of Law and Justice, we have learned that we are closing a certain era that the Ombudsman does not meet the expectations of the PIS, only a spokesman who will represent the rights of the PIS is possible. Today we have heard the last report of Mr Adam Bodnar's spokesperson. I remember that day when he took his vows in the Sejm, and I didn't think what matter we would all have to deal with -- that the Ombudsman would become the last institution to defend the citizen from the repressiveness of the state, from intolerance, contempt, injustice, that it would be the last institution with which the citizen would be able to find help. Today, thanking you for the job you did, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask the question: What are the greatest dangers facing citizens when there is no ombudsman? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u72	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Professor, First of all, I would like to pay my respects and thank you for your public service to the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Among the many cases that you have taken, which are mentioned in this report, is the question of people at risk of exclusion - exclusion for example. disability or age. In your report, there is a very interesting initiative on senior aid addressed to self-government as part of the preparation of a policy very close to people, for the benefit of the elderly. I would very much like information about this interesting initiative. Secondly, information concerning Poland's failure to implement the Convention [[♪ The bell ♪]] United Nations Organisation for Disabled Persons. Thank you, sir. I would also kindly ask for information about the state of play that you have seen in your office regarding the implementation of this convention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Welcome to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Today should be a celebration of democracy. We should hear from this stand about Poles' problems, about citizens' problems, because that's what the spokesperson is for. The Ombudsman is not here to give credit to the government and praise the government. What's the situation today? The government is not interested in the problems of Poles at all. The government isn't interested in what's bothering every citizen today. The biggest problems - within 5 minutes. How can you say that in five minutes... It was 10 minutes, sir, please do not mislead the High House. ...so eight minutes... 12 minutes. ...because your marshal of grace has given three minutes to the spokesperson. [[Applause]] Why would you say that? How can the problems of Poles be presented? Your marshal, mercy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, Mr. Spokesman, I have a question: Why doesn't the government want to hear what you have to say? [[Applause]] Tough question. Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u76	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsperson, For understandable reasons, the Ombudsman's entire term of office aroused a stir, as a rule on the government side, a strong uproar. But I also recall situations where people who were upset could not be called supporters of the government. And for that I would like to thank you, Mr. Spokesperson, that, regardless of who was addressing you, who asked for your help to defend his civil rights, you have always stood in your position and always, throughout your entire term of office, defended these rights. It's a great value. And for that, you deserve a warm thank you. But I also want to ask you something that is extremely important today about media freedom. We are dealing with a situation in which power consolidates these media and de facto brings this layer, in particular private, to some non-existent place. This poses a very serious threat because the media, the independence of the media, is one of the guarantors of democracy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Spokesperson, I would also ask you to provide more detailed information in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u78	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! This discussion shows one very important thing. We need authority. All of us. And these authorities are on different sides of the political dispute. Each party has its representatives, each party has its sympathies, including among those with high positions. And I thought if we weren't able to come together as a lower chamber and a higher chamber to come to a common understanding, find someone who could represent us together, who could gain acceptance of any party... Because look at the last election. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, even if you considered him a good man, he was still a representative of the United Right. So this division, the Polish-Polish war continues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have a question for the Ombudsman: Would a change in the constitution regarding the election of the ombudsman in the general election get your approval? Would he have received the approval of the opposition and the entire High House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u79	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Siemoniak, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question. Please treat the Members equally. I treat you evenly, my fellow Member. Look carefully at the time and listen. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! There are great matters, there are several tens of thousands of writings, but there are also matters of individual people, individuals. I would like to thank you very much for your willingness to deal with such matters. I'm talking about soldiers molested in the military. [[Applause]] This is an extremely difficult, painful problem that does not gain the public interest it deserves. You were ready for these few people to do a lot. Thank you for that. I'm not gonna ask you anything. All I'm asking is that you don't give in to that tone of goodbye and time. Civil matters in Poland will remain, even when one day you stop doing this job. I ask that you continue to be such a spokesman. Me and all my friends from the democratic opposition are probably ready. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with you in this work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u81	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u82	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I have the honour and honor of representing the Pomerania and Kujawy voters in this House. On behalf of those of my constituents who have asked me to do so, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the Ombudsman for the past five years, for the past five years of defending the freedom of man and of the citizen, and in particular for being an advocate and defender of ordinary people in situations where they were helpless against the law established in this Sejm or meeting with the callousness of state offices. I thank you for your perseverance and loyalty to the rules adopted, for putting up with the dignity of the heyth and open attacks by the politicians of the power camp. My constituents are counting on you to serve your knowledge and commitment at the end of this term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] defending the freedom and civil rights of all Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u83	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. I'm just reminding you that we're in a series of questions, so at least I'm asking for this question mark at the end. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll join you in thanking me, too. Mr. Spokesman, we're from West Pomerania together. We know the area. Thank you very much for your attitude, for your actions, for your interventions. Allow me to appeal from this place to the High House. You know that the Ombudsman shall appoint in the form of a resolution the Sejm with the consent of the Senate at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm or a group of 35 Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be up to this House whether we are able to respect this constitutional provision. Mrs. Marshal! I am also addressing your political environment. Ask me a question. We're really gonna be convinced that we want to fight, because the ombudsman isn't a cockroach. Or the one who's gonna praise the government. Ladies and gentlemen! In a democratic state [[♪ The bell ♪]] such an institution is very much needed. I appeal very strongly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Let me remind you that we're at the point of asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 72 428 - is the number of cases that have entered the Ombudsman's Office in 2020, in a difficult time of pandemic, in a difficult time of economic crisis. This number of cases best illustrates the need for an ideology-free, party-free Office of the Ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen! 200 cases a day, 1,400 cases a week. These are not political or party matters, these are citizens' matters, who, without seeing the further possibility of asserting their rights and freedoms, addressed with them, their most important issues to the Ombudsman's Office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's do everything we can to keep this office going in the ideology-free way that it works...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u87	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Thank you so much for the job you did, because it's a really big job. On behalf of all citizens, we thank you for this because this is a demonstration of how to stand in difficult conditions, that you cannot succumb to the pressure of the rulers, that even if they attack you personally, your family, you must stop, endure. Respect for that attitude. I wanted to ask you about specific things, about the judges who were and are being repressed, about Judge Juszczyszyn, Judge Chubeniak, Judge Tuleya. You've been in all these cases. Please tell the House what is happening in these matters, how the Ombudsman can defend the rights of judges against the repression of power. It's unacceptable that the authorities are still trying to reprimand judges and prosecutors. I ask for information on how the Ombudsman can still help the justice system. Today, Mr July [[♪ The bell ♪]] He said he didn't like the report... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u89	Thank you very much. Mr... Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The last two years have been a period in which more and more people from the artistic community have started talking about mobbing, sexual violence and discrimination. We've heard of violence in theatre and theatre schools. Some universities have started implementing anti-violence procedures, although there is still a lot to be done here. They make careers through the bed, and then... In many of these cases, the Ombudsman was involved, for example, in the case of molested and mobbed employees of the Cracow Bagatel Theatre. This year you also intervened in the case of violence against students and students of the Łódź film, for which I am very grateful to you and, I think, the whole theatre and artistic environment. The title of the study conducted among students and students of theatre schools by Alina Czyżewska entitled: Change now. What we didn't talk about in theatre schools. I would like to ask you about this change: What system actions, for example. legislative changes, should [[♪ The bell ♪]] To be taken? How to ensure security, equality in artistic schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u91	Thank you, Member, for asking questions. Can I ask you a question? Yes, you can. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During your role as Professor Adam Bodnar, the role and rank of ombudsman in Poland increased greatly. She's grown into a rank that no one's ever expected before. This was due on the one hand, unfortunately, to the regrettable role and attitude of the rule of law and justice, but on the other hand, very important, to your right attitude. Your term of office has come to a very difficult time for Poles, when civil rights have demanded and unfortunately still require great defence. But you proved yourself bravely defending civil rights, but also the sources of those rights, which is extremely important. Let's be honest, your rank is so high because you've been complaining a lot wider than that. than your function. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Predistinated. Thank you very much. You claimed our laws - Poland and Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u93	Thank you, sir. That wasn't a question either. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, I am, of course, directing my first words of thanks for your work. There are several such places in the institutional architecture of the Polish state, where a great deal of knowledge is gathered about how the Polish state operates, where knowledge is gathered, which is not in other places, because after all, the Ombudsman deals with matters that are not medial or uncomfortable for politicians. This knowledge is gathered in this document that we already use. We promise we'll use it. And we are open - I think I am speaking at the moment not only on behalf of my circle, but also of the entire opposition - to every remark on your part, Mr Spokesperson, on knowledge, on any information concerning how you function and how to improve the functioning of our country. Thank you again for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u95	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u96	Mr. Spokesman! I have three questions for you. The government loosens its pandemic-related sharpenings, opens shopping malls, opens catering gardens, opens schools tomorrow, opens theatres and cinemas, but in power, the authorities maintain a ban on spontaneous gatherings, civic assemblies, which are most often directed, as otherwise, into evil power. Power, in my opinion, would be most likely to extend to the endless martial law. This prohibition is included in the regulation. Please share with us the views of the Ombudsman in this regard. I would also like to ask what it should look like, according to the Ombudsman, to rebuild a democratic rule of law? One more question. In the Senate, you said, Mr. Spokesman, that when the mission ends, it doesn't mean that everything has been done. What topics remain in the field of unfinished business? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u97	Thank you for your questions. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The 700-page report on the activities of your office and respect for civil rights in Poland last year is, on the one hand, a sad picture of discrimination against LGBT+ people, the aggression and brutality of police, restrictions on the fundamental rights of women, and on the other, a testimony of your courage and fight for the rights of all of us. Thank you on behalf of yourself, as well as Poles and Poles for these achievements. Your office and you personally were the last existing institution not subject to political pressure. What are the dangers of not choosing your successor or successor and trying to politicize the RPO office? Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u99	Thank you, Member. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I will ask from myself, but also from local communities, because for the first time I met Mr. Adam Bodnar in a small neighborhood 16 years ago, when he defended our association from banning its activities. And even then, at the Helsinki Foundation, Adam Bodnar was behind local communities, behind people who didn't mean anything in media discourse, who weren't big names. I would like to ask from this speaker, Mr Spokesperson, if, after your term of office, for which we are deeply sorry, you will continue to take care of local communities, associations, small civic movements, because really this social work, which you have been doing not only for the last five years, but for the past few years, has been very important to Poland and to us. Thank you, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! The PiS tried to build such an impression that the Ombudsman's office was an office of great politics. I would like to draw the attention of the High House that Prof. Adam Bodnar, for 5 years, has been caring for the interests of the elderly, for the interests of people with limited independence, with disabilities, in the crisis of homelessness, called for a national Alzheimer's plan to which the government was obliged to create. Yesterday I received a report from the Senior Experts' Committee on the situation of older people, which is a fantastic diagnosis, is a de facto recipe for how to pursue a senior policy. But the Ombudsman's office is also a national mechanism for preventing torture. This is Dr. Hanna Machinska's team, who not only visited police stations, but also visited social services, prisons, arrests. It's a fantastic job. What conclusions, Mr Spokesman, come from these two areas: senior policy [[♪ The bell ♪]] and issues of civil rights, especially those rights violated in isolation centres, in centres where the citizen is left to himself? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What about citizens' rights in full force?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u103	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u104	Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! The Constitution is clear in the article. 68 that public authorities are required to provide special health care to children, pregnant women, disabled people and the elderly. You have been asking for senior citizens, and you have just been asking for possible solutions for the elderly. I would like to ask on my behalf as Vice-President of the Committee on Senior Policy, but also on behalf of the millions of older people who live in Poland. You pointed out the lack of a coherent socio-health policy. It is clear from the information provided that neither the NFZ nor the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, even though they support the demands to improve care for patients, especially those who live in rural areas, do not see the need for legal changes. Do you see any other systemic action to be taken? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u105	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u106	Mr. Spokesman! One general question: Which meeting during these more than 5 years has touched you the most? The Auto School Complex in Włocławek, the Mateusz Centre for former prisoners in Toruń, the meeting with Mr Oliwer fighting for clean air in Rybnik or other? But three other specific questions. In your annual information, you point to the failure to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of December 2016, you point out that the constitutional powers of the National Media Council have been misplaced. And what, Mr. Spokesperson, do with the silence of Deputy Prime Minister Glinski and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? You are also signaling an increase in the number of complaints for late payment of sickness and parental benefits by the Social Insurance Institution. How can we conduct real family policies? And one important piece of information that touched me: the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy did not answer [[♪ The bell ♪]] at your invitation to the meeting on the development of a new convention on older people. Will you resign from this convention, or will you continue to fight for it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u107	Thank you, sir. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Professor! Thank you. You've made an ombudsman out of office an institution to which every citizen and every citizen knew they could turn themselves in. Closer to people, including those local things. It is a great thing that a person beaten and humiliated, a person excluded by the system, harmed by the government, harmed by the police, exposed to a crisis of homelessness or a child helpless on the Internet knew that there was someone on their side. You've been helping the elderly and the children, helping the victims of police violence on the right hand side, but also the women who've been hurt over the years. What about men in full strength? You're the only one who's dealt with cybercrime and pathology online. The government didn't have the courage to do that. But you, too, have been the victim of unworthy prosecutions in the media and, above all, of taking money away from the Ombudsman's office. First of all, I thank you and your colleagues for acting in such difficult conditions. Now, the question is, what do we do to ensure that the Ombudsman's office is financially financed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u109	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. What about citizens' rights in full force? Don't scream. I'm not a citizen? Only disabled people are citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u110	Dear Ombudsman, Ladies and gentlemen! It is wrong in Poland when PiS-owska power violates human rights, civil rights and does not want to listen to the Ombudsman who defends people from the power. Censoring Professor Bodnar's statement, the power of the PiS does not want citizens and citizens to know how far we have gone from the law-abiding state, how vulnerable people are and vulnerable to violations of constitutional rights. Professor! Thanking you for all your invaluable activity, I would like to ask: Do you agree with my opinion that it was the women's decision by the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska that were specifically deprived of constitutional rights to freedom, to decide about their lives, to be subjected to torture and to inhuman treatment? And when they're fighting for dignity and self-determination, so is the leader of the Women's Strike. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marta Lempart and many others are being repressed. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for your vote in defending women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u111	Thank you, Member. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, We will soon be such a strange country where citizens have been taken away from the protection of the Ombudsman. The PiS government has raised its hand on something that is an absolute, universal standard in a democratic Europe. This is demonstrated by a letter from many respected international human rights organisations that was issued last week. They express their support to the Ombudsman's Office and stress the importance of its continued operation. We have seen many times in recent years how much we need the Ombudsman's office for citizens. Almost every day, life in the State of PiS puts people in difficult situations by taking away or restricting their rights. This can be seen in the case of children without psychiatric care, in the case of people who experience violence from uniformed services led by the PiS. Therefore, I have a question: what areas are not available [[♪ The bell ♪]] A spokesman to replace him with a political nomination can prove to be the most dangerous thing for citizens and citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u113	Thank you. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u114	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman! I wanted to thank you very much for dealing with the problems of a particular group. A group that is very often overlooked, forgotten. I mean debtors, specifically those who don't get paid for their hard work. We live in a country where practically impunity can not be paid for the work done. Hundreds of millions of wages a year show this. Thus, the possibility of losing a roof over your head or falling into a spiral of debt is likely for every Polish woman and every Pole. From the rent debt to the loss of a roof over your head, they really share three or four unpaid salaries. We have a toothless country that leaves them to themselves. Embarrassingly low penalties or financial support is only when the company is in liquidation. Thank you for being in charge of representing their interests for five years. Thank you. I have a question. Mrs... How do we systematically ensure that situations like this don't happen? Thank you very much. Mr Rafał... So that we, as parliamentarians, can finally stand up and say that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u115	Member, after a while. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! It can be seen from the years that we made a good decision in 2015 when it comes to the election of an ombudsman. In the history of societies, there are times when they make decisions that ultimately prove to restrict their own freedoms and rights. From the rain to the gutter, you might say. The ancients called it stronger: Ab equis ad asinos, from horses to donkeys. The hard years for civil rights, freedom and recent years have shown that strong defence, representation of civil rights is extremely necessary in every country, and especially in a country where the rulers exceed all borders of constitutional principles and democratic rule of law. I have a question, Mr. Spokesman. I'd say more open. Namely, of all the matters that you have dealt with (the bell) 72 thousand, there is also a clear picture of new issues, new problems that arise before an institution like yours. What new issues neglected, unnoticed by you... Thank you very much, sir. No, I beg you, sir. Should he be within your purview or your successor? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Club Left. You're welcome. I really don't want to turn off the microphone, ladies and gentlemen. I don't usually do this, but please, let's just stick to the time. We still have a lot of people to vote for. You're welcome, my fellow Member. We've got all day today. Let's stick to the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I, too, thank you very much for your work. I remember when in 2016 you opened your admission point at the City Office in Słupsk, and I know that you are a person who is not only at your disposal and who is on the phone to whom you can write, but I also know that you were in those places where people needed help where they were. You were in these places and people could always come to you, talk about their problems, and get this help. You are and will remain, I think, for many years as an ombudsman for every human being. We in this Chamber may be politically different, but the fact is that people there, in Słupsk, in Kobylnica, in Gdańsk, in small towns, could always count on you. And this is the great value of this service, in my opinion, the greatest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a special day. As it passes, we can expect the worst, the disappearance of the only state body that formally defends citizens' rights and human rights. If there is any doubt as to whether this will be the case, I would like to draw attention to the suggestion from the ruling party about the connection between the RP and the Ministry of Justice in the future. I have a question. Perhaps Mr July is right about the fact that literature is entering politics. But this is not about the Ombudsman's report. This is actually a policy that introduces Franz Kafki's Process to the norm of the state. There's literature going into politics here. [[Applause]] That's why I say it's a special day. We can expect the worst from him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u122	Dear Marshal! Professor! High Izbo! Thank you, Mr. Spokesman, for all your years of service. The Ombudsman's term of office is over, but his mission is not over. Your mission doesn't end, Mr. Bodnar, because the fight for human rights never ends. So far, we have been able to support ourselves in our battles for the rights of women, minorities, vulnerable people who are discriminated against on the legal arm of the ombudsman. Unfortunately, a month ago we were deprived of the constitutional guardian of our rights and freedoms by an unconstitutional tribunal on a political order. The constitutional office was removed on political order because on ul. Nowogrodzka was added the eleventh commandment: whose authority, his spokesman. Or is it just a party rights attorney? Today we heard Professor Bodnar's latest report. Was that the last such report? Have you deprived the lifeguard of our rights in the sea of party interests [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we doomed to drown in the abuse of right-wing power? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u123	Thank you. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, First of all, I would like to thank you for nearly six years of your work as an ombudsman. I would like to thank your colleagues for 6 years of very hard work in times of attacks against the rule of law, civil rights and human rights in Poland. You've been doing not only the Ombudsman's work for six years, but also the d.o.b. equal treatment and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, because those formals were too often silent. Today I would like to thank you for dealing with the everyday affairs of citizens and citizens, labour and housing matters, environmental issues. Thank you for defending the rights of women and minorities. Their rights have been repeatedly restricted and violated by this authority over the course of these six years. Can you tell us more today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] about hundreds of meetings with people in cities and towns all over Poland? Thank you very much, Member. About a daily job that no one... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u125	Thank you very much, Member, time has passed. But let me finish my sentence. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u126	High Izbo! The representative of the power camp said he didn't like the spokesperson. In a sense, it is the best compliment the Ombudsman can hear, because the Ombudsman is not from liking any power, but from being on the side of the weaker to stand on the side of the citizens. [[Applause]] We have talked a lot about the political power that your spokesperson bravely faced. I wanted to talk to you about the economic power and the case I wanted to thank you for. I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his support for the 'No for pandemic profits' initiative, for his support for the initiative to suspend vaccination patents. Today, this is probably one of the biggest threats we face, that the concentrated economic interests of large pharmaceutical companies will make it harder to overcome pandemics on a global scale. In my opinion, it is also worth talking in this House today about how important it is to suspend vaccination patents, and I would be obliged if you would give it a few words, especially since they are [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this room too, politicians who do not seem to understand it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I would like to thank you very much for all the interventions you have undertaken, but especially for the interventions in the labour field. These interventions were very many, I followed them with interest and great appreciation for your commitment. Recently, my particular attention has been paid to the issue raised once again about the pay gap, which is the unjustified difference between pay for men and women. I would like to ask your spokesperson, using your vast knowledge and experience, what are your indications about solving this problem. Incidentally, it's very interesting. I refer to the answer given by the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Iwona Michalek, who was very general and very little to solve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u129	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Obaz, Left Club. Tall people make more money than short people. How can we solve this problem? Think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! Thank you. Thank you for putting question marks wherever the law was broken. Thank you for screaming everywhere and always when anyone was hurt. I thank you for the fact that this man sounds proud, it was not just a phrase spoken from many lips. Let me not put out a question mark today, but an exclamation mark. And I'm gonna yell out to everyone, "Thank you!" Thank you on behalf of the inhabitants and residents of Jelenia Góra, Legnica, Lubawka, Kamienna Góra, all the towns where the inhabitants applied to you and you represented them with dignity. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u131	Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u132	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all stress here that you have worked in extremely difficult conditions. It was a special situation, but you did it. You set the bar so high, you created such standards that every other spokesperson, especially the next one, would be really hard to find. I want to thank you very much for this. We have an example of your fantastic cooperation with your predecessor, Minister Mark Michalak. This cooperation, it was visible, was very fruitful and was working out perfectly. But Mark Michalak lost his mark, and the office of the child's attorney took it. So I would like to ask: How is it going, or was it working out, working with the new spokesperson for the rights of the child? Does he even exist, because the marks are very difficult to recognize. And one last thing. You ended your very short speech with a very important question - a question about Poland during the pandemic, about this year and how to settle [[♪ The bell ♪]] the government that didn't prepare us for the pandemic at all. I wish you a return to public life because we need people like you so that we can do what you said in your last question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u133	Thank you. Mr Paweł Krutul, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Ombudsman Adam Bodnar, Professor. I received a lot of e-mails, information, messages from the Podlaskie Voivodeship from my constituents. On behalf of them and mine, I would like to thank you for your efforts and your work during the six-year term. Thank you so much for not bounced off your door. This is very important and important to us. Thank you for defending minorities and for defending the French, which is very important and important because this issue is still not resolved to the end. So once again, thank you so much for what you did. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! There are events and people who will sign up with golden reports and go to history books. This figure is certainly Prof. Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman. A person who, at a time when freedom and human rights, the rule of law were and are still being trampled by power, during a period of state and national storm was like that lighthouse that pointed out - and I believe that still, maybe in another configuration, will indicate the right course. I would like on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Poles, Poles, whom you and your office have helped during these six years - and many of these people are also residents of my region - to thank very warmly. To ask for a weaker, abused, minority, to claim the rule of law, for the rights of every human being - that is our common duty. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask you how you assess the rule of law during the pandemic period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u137	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u138	Mr Kaczyński, Mr Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! You have been thanked many times for your work from this podium, and I also join you in these thanks. But I also have a question for you. You're a lawyer, an academic lecturer, and you've certainly raised these issues with students many times. Mr. Spokesman, can you explain to me how the biggest vermin in the state of law are lawyers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u139	Interesting. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I would like to thank you, Mr Spokesman, for your service, for your standing up for freedom and civil rights. For not succumbing to the party pressure. For your service, and the whole institution of the RP, to the citizens, and in such difficult times, when we witnessed a massive attack on the Supreme Court, on the Constitutional Tribunal, on other instruments and bodies of democracy. Don't you get the impression that in Poland art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, which states: 'Everyone is equal to the law', is not respected? Our situation is more like the situation of the heroes of the animal farm, where the rule was in force: all animals are equal (the bell), but some are more equal than others. And the best part is...? Whoever's reading can tell themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for your noble attitude and your defence of values and, as someone has beautifully written, also for the fact that as a spokesman you are the voice of small and large citizens, regardless of social status, wealth, political, religious and national membership. Your attitude will remain a role model for many. The Ombudsman's work covers a wide range of activities. In connection with the pandemic, you intervened, among others. on the difficult situation of the cinema industry, which today is reopening. You rightly pointed this out, asking the Minister of Culture to take a stand on the establishment of a long-term strategy to support this industry. I therefore have a question: How and how did the Minister of Culture ever refer to this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u143	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u144	Dear Ombudsman, I sincerely thank you and your entire team for your determination, for your openness, for your service to the citizens, especially those weaker, excluded, with disabilities. You have entered in the golden reports of the Ombudsman's office next to, for example, those who I will mention here, such as Mrs Teresa Lipowicz or Mr Andrzej Zoll. It was particularly difficult to hold this office in this political situation, and therefore I would like to thank you all the more for trying to make this role important at a time when the rights of citizens are not respected, and the state wants to decide for Poles in all their cases, trying to determine people's views... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. ...and he doesn't respect women's rights. Thank you, Member. I think we're all very grateful to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u145	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! Today we are summing up the Ombudsman's term of office, a five-year term. A lot's been said. I would like to draw attention to the working conditions of the Ombudsman, to the lack of proper budgeting of this activity. The scope of the tasks was increased - the national prevention mechanism, the emergency complaint, the number of complaints growing avalanchely - and every year the budget planned by your Ombudsman was reduced by 30%, by 40%. How could you work under such conditions? Nevertheless, Prof. Adam Bodnar and his office, the Ombudsman's office, carried out their tasks perfectly, did not bow down, were and are a guarantee of the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. I pay my respects, I pay my respects. And thank you very much. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u147	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, High Izbo! First of all, I thank you for seeing all the minority groups, all the different social groups, because all these minorities, all these groups are made up of the majority, our whole society: believers, unbelievers, the LGBT community, seniors, including Mr Korwin-Mikke among other things... My rights are... ...kids, Catholics, feminists, conservatives, practitioners, non-practicers. We were all protected by your spokesperson. However, I particularly thank you for two points: for recognising and supporting the Silesian minority and our right to feel our identity, language and nationality and for seeing more than 70,000. children in foster care, which unfortunately the spokesperson of children's rights of time or willingness to take care of was not. I have two questions: What are the biggest challenges in protecting citizens' rights in the future in the current political, social, economic and legal situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second question... Thank you. ...who from today, since, and this will be soon, will end your term of office... Thank you, Member. ...will he stand by our rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u149	Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. Mrs Moniko Rosa, do not mention the senior age to our parliamentarians. But why? I'm not offended. I'm not offended. I've always wanted to be old.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Adam Bodnar, the spokesperson, who, I think, will sign up in history, the spokesperson in very difficult times, in times difficult for both governments who have authoritarian temptations and pandemics. I wanted to thank you for all the people he helped. And I wanted to ask how many Poles, women, men, people with disabilities, elderly people, LGBT people, but also people who were persecuted for very different reasons, homeless people, you helped. I also wanted to ask you one thing: Who will help you find this help after July 15th? We still have a situation in which many people do not find medical assistance, a situation where many entrepreneurs are not doing well and will be bankrupt. Where are they gonna find this help when there's no ombudsman? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u151	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Spokesman! I won't say thank you again because it's so obvious, but I want to draw attention to an element that we haven't talked about here. Well, your reports, Mr Spokesperson, do indeed matter, although perhaps not literary - they are a document that has been under way for five years. [[Applause]] It is your reports that will be our document when civil society comes to go to some tribunal to judge those who here fund this lawlessness. [[Applause]] And I want to say one thing. Here we argue whether it's for one or the other, for the minorities, for the excluded. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the spokesperson (Citizen's bell) for all citizens, for among others. He's begging for the law... Thank you. ...which is broken here and without which there is no democracy. [[Applause]] Thank you, Member. The right to information and the right to truth. And I thank you for that. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u153	Thank you, Member. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u154	High Izbo! Prof. Adam Bodnar, ombudsman of civil rights, has earned his country and citizens well. For this, the High House is expressing its thanks to him today. But as long as you're in office, Professor, as long as you're standing on board, there's still a few more things to do, among other things. It is about the rights of soldiers who carry out missions outside Poland. We know your predecessors have been investigating this case. Today we can also claim their safety. You can claim the rights of militiamen who, through the oppressive power of Law and Justice, as well as IPN (The Bell) are often... Thank you, sir. ...spoken for a job in the Security Service of the Polish People's Republic of Poland. Thank you, sir. Let me finish my sentence. I have a request for your marshal to allow... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u155	Thank you very much, sir. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, In 2019, the Ombudsman addressed a speech to the Prime Minister in which he made 20 main recommendations to combat hate crimes. The requests were repeated in June 2020. Unfortunately, so far, the government has not bowed down to them. And as we remember, 2020 and 2021 have been specific years and have highlighted the problems of hate. In his report, the Ombudsman points out the need for the government to launch a comprehensive strategy against hate crimes. I therefore call on the government to comply with this proposal. And thank you very much for standing up for civil rights in these very difficult and demanding times. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u157	Thank you very much, Member. And to you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in no way did anyone shorten, restrict the Ombudsman's statements. We hope it will be so now. No one interfered with that statement either. Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u158	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Like my predecessors, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank the Professor, the Ombudsman for his efforts, for his dedication, for his passion, for his hard work in defending the weakest, in defending the victims, those for whom you have been, and for whom you are the last resort of salvation. I would like to thank you for being a symbol of impartiality and courage, for your fight for the rule of law, for your civil liberties, for your fight against homophobia, xenophobia and intolerance. Mr. Spokesman! I bow to you, to your coworkers, for what you've done. Finally, sticking to the formula of this sitting, the question: Do you recall the last intervention with which I addressed you personally, a shocking matter, an appalling matter? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about billboards that were located in the Opole Voivodeship, right on Route 46. Thank you, sir. This is about Adolf Hitler's picture against the flag of the European Union... Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. ...on the background of the aborted children, the human fetus. I mean, Mr... Thank you, sir. Yeah, yeah, just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u159	Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would like to ask you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Let's remember today's date. Today is 21 May 2021 and probably the last time the Polish Sejm is dealing with the Ombudsman's report today, because the PiS Members I am currently seeing in the Chamber - I wanted to say: two, and now I see only one - are doing everything they can to avoid choosing Professor Adam Bodnar's successor in Poland for the last 9 months. Because you're filing for this position of PiS officers. Moreover, you have used the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal to deprive Professor Adam Bodnar of his ability to continue his mission from 15 July. Let's get to the point, sir. I have a question: have you ever read this report that the Professor prepared last year? Do you know that he intervened in 70,000. Things? You are not currently punishing Prof. Bodnar with your conduct, you are not punishing the state of democratic opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. You're punishing those tens of thousands of people who... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Did you hear what I said? Did you hear what I said? Is that all he's saying?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u161	Thank you, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Information from the Ombudsman is a grim illustration of the rule of law in Poland, respect for civil rights, the condition of constitutional institutions in Poland. Thanking Mr. Spokesman for his mission so far, and using your presence here, I have two questions. First: How did the Ombudsman's assessment change the level of security of Poles, citizens and relations between the state - the citizen in the context of changes in the powers to perform operational and exploratory activities by the services over the last 5 years? The second question concerns the level of freedom of the media in Poland. How does the Ombudsman evaluate the purchase transaction by one of the companies of the State Treasury, specifically by Orlen, Polska Press? How does the State's response to the court's questioning of this transaction? Is the Ombudsman's assessment of the action taken by the so-called "professor'? Management Board of Poland Press [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are they legal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u163	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In this term of office, Mr Bodnar, for the first time in history, has been raised to such a high rank art. 74 constitutions. It is about environmental safety and environmental protection. We thank you, Mr Spokesperson, for making us all aware that the right to clean air, the right to a healthy environment is a civil right, is a human right. I'm saying it's a historic event, because the situation is also historic. Never before in Poland's history did we have a government which, from the devastation of nature and from the devastation of the environment, made the philosophy of its action, which has a record of such crimes as the destruction of the Białowieża Forest, which the street and abroad had to defend before the Polish government. [[Applause]] He was putting it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're being followed by a spokesperson. You've made us all aware that we all need to be environmental advisors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u165	Street and abroad... Thank you, Member. Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u166	Professor! Mr Ombudsperson! Even though the 460 Members have said very loudly: thank you, we will not express all that we feel today and our gratitude to you and your work. The fact that the right side, the PiS, is accusing you of being particularly interested in LGBT individuals, protecting them and defending them, is the best evidence that these minorities were ruled out by PiS in the five years of the disgrace of this government. You've always stood up for those who were very, very bad at this point. And for defending the people whom PiS denied not only dignity, but even humanity - the president said that these are not people, that this is ideology - I thank you with all my heart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u167	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Professor! High Izbo! At a time when the law ceases to be a law, and justice is only for some, especially for citizens, an independent, professional and courageous Ombudsman is needed. 72,000. raised to the Ombudsman is a clear signal that citizens do not feel safe or taken care of by the State. It's a signal that civil rights are at stake. In the opinion of thousands of citizens, they are being violated. One such group is the inhabitants of the communes of Aries, Wiskitki and others in which the Central Communication Port is to be established. The people are afraid of what will happen to them when they are displaced and forced to look for a job. They are afraid of the countries that will treat them in question. I know, Professor, that among all the other issues that the spokesperson has been dealing with, you have also dealt with this case. On behalf of the people of these municipalities, I would like to thank you for this. At the same time, I would ask you to bring the High House closer to what are the most important conclusions of the intervention you have taken in connection with the Central Communication Port. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u169	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u170	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman, I would like to draw your attention to one point in connection with which you have taken a number of steps that you have paid particular attention to. I mean the mental health problem and the people who are struggling with it. This applies to both adults and young people, whose fate seems to be most important to us. If it weren't for your voice, if it hadn't been for your repeated appeal, if it hadn't been for the team at the Ombudsman's Office, this important and difficult topic wouldn't have been in the public debate. These are your repeated interventions, often very difficult, often involving people who, for example, They're prisoners, they've made it a mental health issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it has become a topic of universal public debate, which is very important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u171	Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When, more than five years ago, we raised our hand as the then government coalition for the election of Professor Adam Bodnar as an ombudsman, we really listened to the voice of the public, we followed the demands of numerous NGOs. After years I can say one thing today: we have chosen the best spokesman for the most difficult times. This is confirmed by a representative of the Law and Justice, who said in his speech: never in the past history of this office has it been the same as in the present Ombudsman's day, who is too involved in a political dispute. Well, yes, because there was never, in the days of the Ombudsman's office, a power that would so strongly enter into a dispute with its citizens, breaking their rights and civil liberties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence, Mr Spokesman, one question: Is it the role of the Ombudsman to represent only the majority, or perhaps to lean above all on the fate of minorities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u174	Professor Relentless! By the PiS Cursed Ombudsman! Please accept my sincere respect, appreciation, admiration for the attitude of a patriot, a stateman, a person who has set a model for public service in every dimension - from integrity to diligence, from courage to consequence. And I'm going to ask you one important question. What can be done when power has made a civil servant's physical integrity a stick against protesters? As a voivode, I remembered the men of uniform as men, and now it looks like they're crying. What should a citizen do who is being detained? Do you want me to knock myself out? Tie him up? Or maybe he'll tasers you so he won't be accused of violating police immunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Officers, come to your senses! You can't do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u175	You know what... I'm not even gonna... Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u176	Dear Ombudsman, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government is trying to bully the Ombudsman's office - the last independent constitutional body. It is an unforgivable betrayal of citizens, a citizen who is vulnerable to abuse of power. The Ombudsman is not supposed to be a power teller, but to support people living in Poland where the state fails. It is difficult to list all the fields on which Prof. Adam Bodnar acted during his term of office, unlawfully shortened by the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal. He applied for young people, unpaid alimony, and access to education. about seniors and access to medicines, about workers' rights, about people with disabilities, about franchise. He defended the rights of women, the LGBT+ environment and all minorities. He defended the victims of reprivatization and tenants' rights. He was wherever the government didn't have the courage. The Ombudsman has been a beacon during the storm of injustice for the last years (the bell). This lighthouse is now an authoritarian power trying to destroy, but I believe we can protect it. My deepest respects and thanks. The fight for human rights will continue! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u177	Thank you, sir. Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Your marshal asked for questions, so I will ask: What is this authority planning, which is so afraid of an independent Ombudsman? How much does this power want to be unpunished, and how much does it not want her to be looked at? Frankly, when I look at these empty benches of Law and Justice during one of the most important debates in the Polish Parliament, because this is a debate about the state of the rule of law, I am not an optimist. Mr. Spokesman! Doctor! On your hands, I thank you and all your colleagues for always being where the Ombudsman should be, on the side of the citizens. I also hope - because I hope - that your successor or successor will also stand on the side of the citizens and will not stand on the side of power. Because the spokesperson, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who is on the side of power, is unnecessary to citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u179	Thank you very much, Member. I just want to remind you that in the previous point, these benches were empty, and the point was very important, and no one mentioned it. Let's really respect each other... That's not true. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. That's right, sir. Right. That's not true. I was. I was, too. I was, too. How many more? Me too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Professor, You have always been close to people, especially the weakest, who are not always able to claim their rights - the disabled. Recently, you spoke about the national census, whose survey was not available to blind and visually impaired people. You emphasized in your letter to the president of the CSO that the survey should take into account the needs of all those surveyed, including those with different disabilities. During the protest of people with disabilities and their families in 2018, you spoke to the Minister of Family and Social Policy on a system of support for people with disabilities. You've spoken about women with disabilities. You have been speaking about changing the model of personal assistance and rest-care. It is very difficult to say in such a short time about all the matters you have touched concerning people with disabilities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and their families. I have a question. What cases of disabled people would you recommend to your successor, which should be dealt with in the first place? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u181	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u182	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 12 minutes today, off with a watch in your hand, for you to speak at the end of your term of office... Marshal, allow me to judge this as one of the biggest scandals in this House. That's not how we should say goodbye to the spokesperson... Do you know the rules? ... whether we like him or not. I would like to say thank you for being everywhere where people needed your help, for helping the disabled, women, workers, franchise and others. I've participated five times a year in reporting your activities. I was embarrassed to assume that the rulers didn't listen, which they didn't do right to the citizens, that they didn't hear the voice of the citizens. I'd like to apologize to you. Not for yourself, not for this part of the room, for this one, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The one who's always humiliated you. She humiliated me on the budget and humiliated me to this day. We thank you very much for your work in this term of office. All of us free people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u183	Oh, Jesus. Thank you, Member. I would like to remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of the Ombudsman has been set for 5 minutes, and no one, even from your club, has ever questioned this at the Bureau or at the Convention. Every minister has 15. And once again, this time, even though it was set for five minutes, was not limited in any way. If you were in the O.R. then you'd know it. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I join you in all the thanks and expressions of appreciation that have been addressed to you today. Thank you so much for your professionalism, your responsibility, your independence. This independence should be emphasized because you were only a spokesperson for the citizens, and thus exposed yourself to power. You have noticed, and today you have recalled this, that again there is the current demand for Solidarity from many years ago, that there must be a change in the way that governs the law. The fact that the way of thinking must change has also been shown by Mr PiS, who has acted on behalf of his club, who has brought the fight for rights and civil liberties into a political dispute. That's what he said. Thus, if the authority considers the fight for civil rights and freedoms to be a political dispute, it means that it does not recognise them at all that it does not respect them and does not pay attention to them. Mr. Spokesman! Thank you so much for pointing this out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is particularly important here in this House. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u185	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, Thanking you and all your colleagues for your continued presence with citizens and citizens, I kindly ask you to answer the following questions: Is police brutality a phenomenon that you have noted in your relations with citizens? Do you see the intensity of such phenomena? How do you assess the state of the system, or rather the absence of a system that allows a citizen to appeal effectively? Today, this is only possible in court, and it is a very long process. What do you see, Mr. Spokesperson, ideas and hints maybe just for your successor? And if it's a party nominate, I don't know if he's gonna take care of it, and I think it's important because it's a very important topic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a collision with the police, the citizen remains vulnerable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u187	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you. Hate blinds it and the mind takes it away. Mr Lipiec went so far in the criticism of Prof. Bodnar that he accused him of changing constitutional standards by laws. Mr. Speaker! Since when does the ombudsman pass laws? And that's what you're saying, a member of the PiS who voted for ordinary laws that violate constitutional norms that break the constitution? After all, for violating the Constitution, for violating human rights, for violating civil rights, for restricting freedom of speech, you will burn in hell. You say you believe in hell, although I don't believe you do. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Just because you break the thermometer doesn't mean the fever will pass. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The symbol of your time will be the beaten women. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I thank you on behalf of the women whose rights you have claimed repeatedly as an ombudsman. At a time when standards of perinatal care defy human dignity when funding is taken from the Women's Rights Centre, because it discriminates against men when the in vitro programme is abolished, because it is incompatible with the ideological beliefs of the government, your support and the voice of opposition were particularly important and, believe me, were noticed, certainly by citizens. I wanted to ask you a specific question about the situation of Poles after this scandalous pseudo-Constitution Tribunal year on abortion. We know that this has caused a lot of problems and many dramas, among others. in women who have been canceled pregnancy procedures in the event of severe foetal injury. Have these cases been brought to your spokesperson yet? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What were the specific cases? Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati. What are your recommendations for resolving this situation, on an ad hoc basis and in the future? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u191	Member, please do not mention that this is a pseudo-judgment or a pseudo-tribulation, because you would not want us to talk about a pseudo-jurisdictionary of civil rights, would you? Excuse me? Please do not use the wording "pseudo" in relation to legally functioning institutions... But that's what I think. ...because I don't think you'd want us to talk about a pseudo-civil rights attorney. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Member, be careful. Please take into account the right to freedom of expression. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Please accept your highest consideration for your activities. When five years ago, or almost six years ago, we called you to this position, I don't think you thought you'd be doing your mission in a time of storm and pressure. It wasn't easy for you. You've been robbed of money, you've been slandered in public media, you've even been harassed by your family. But you did it. You have managed and, I believe, you have done a great deal for Polish citizens in this discussion and these statements. For Polish citizens. That's why I'm asking you not to worry about half the room being empty. Your mission was not to serve the authorities or to serve the opposition. You have served in the interests of all citizens, and I would like to say that you have met this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the police sprayed gas in their eyes for no reason, the Ombudsman stood up for the protesters. When the undercovers pulled out telescopic batons during women's protests and strikes, the Ombudsman stood up for the protesters. When entrepreneurs who needed help during the crisis were ignored by the government, the Ombudsman stood up for them. Now imagine that this authority chooses to be its party activist. Instead of defending citizens' rights, we would defend the interests of this power. I think that the best example and best testimony of how this authority treats citizens' rights is that the government benches are empty and the piS benches are completely empty as well. Dear Ombudsman, Dear Professor, With your attitude, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your service to the citizens has earned your special appreciation. Thank you for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u195	Thank you very much, sir. In corrigendum mode. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u196	The Great Venerable Mrs. Monica! Member. My rights aren't violated as an old man's rights, they're men's rights. There's a group of people that makes 90%. National income, a group of middle-aged men. And their rights the spokesperson doesn't defend. They're exploited, they're robbed, their kids are taken away. In what mode do you speak at all? These people have rights, too. These are civil rights, not the rights of the weaker, the disabled, etc. It was supposed to be a civil rights officer. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] It's not "Mrs Monica," it's "Mrs. Monica."
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u197	Thank you very much. Well, it's very... Well, indeed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It was in corrigendum mode. Ladies and gentlemen, each of you is speaking. I'm listening to what you're saying here. The Member has the same right as you. You are fighting for human rights, for freedom of speech, and at the same time you are acting in the words of another Member in this way. I ask you to remain calm. But we don't call you Miss Elizabeth. He said, "Mrs. Elizabeth." You're not offended, are you? He commented on the speech made by the Member, not his, the marshal. Rules of procedure. I know the rules. You seem to be having problems, my fellow Member. Don't argue. Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. Please address us. Politely. I always speak politely, my fellow Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u198	Dear Marshal! Just so there's no misunderstandings, I'd like to ask, how long do I have to answer a few dozen questions? Five minutes, Mr. Spokesman. Bravo! Well done, Mrs. Elizabeth. Just five minutes, right? Good. First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for your questions and for appreciating the work of the Ombudsman. I would also like to thank my colleagues very warmly at this point. I won't have a better chance to express my gratitude for their work again. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] I would also like to thank the parliamentarians very warmly for their cooperation, because over the last few years, I would like to emphasise that this was not just a matter of these reports, but also of repeated interventions, speeches. I would say that I noticed such a tendency that apart from the plenary hall of the Sejm or the Senate, both the left and the right side could reach the office of the Ombudsman and claim the rights of citizens. I've always tried to treat everyone evenly, and I've always tried to deal with every matter in substance, because that's my role. And I have the impression that the Members of the Law and Justice have also been grateful for the interventions and actions that have been undertaken in matters addressed to me. I'm just seeing my mission and my office. As far as questions are concerned, there really has been a lot of questions, so that if I do not answer all of them, I will certainly make written answers in the next few days and each of you will receive such an answer from my office. And I also thank you for these additional inspirations about dealing with various problems, because actually there is a lot going on every day and you can at least a little bit more help these citizens and improve the protection of their rights. There are a few things I'd like to say. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke accused me of not dealing with Mr Mateusz Piskorski's case. Mr President, last time you accused me of the same thing. On August 19, I sent a comprehensive letter explaining everything I did in this case. [[Applause]] So I don't know what else to do. But he was already released from prison. Mr President, please don't argue with the jury. Yes, but I've explained everything I've done over the years about Mr. Mateusz Piskorski. And you got a written explanation of all my actions. Of course he was released. It was released in August 2019 and I also know the date. There were already a number of comments about what I didn't do or didn't do properly. I think it's hurtful for me that sometimes there's a lot of contradictions in the public debate. It appears, for example. such a violation, also recently in the Senate, where there was a debate on Mr Wróblewski's candidacy, that the Ombudsman does not deal with the aggression of motivated confession, including attacks of hatred against Catholics. Here's a whole list of things I've taken: simulating the throat of a puppet with the image of an archbishop. Jędraszewski, a knifesmith's attack on a priest in the church in Wroclaw, an attack on a priest in the sacristy of the Basilica in Szczecin, assault on a priest in Mosina, insulting a place of worship, reporting an assault on a monk, writings calling for violence against priests in Szczecin, speaking to the Chief of Police about incidents in churches accompanying protests after the judgment of the Constitutional Court, desecration of the cross and inscriptions calling for violence against priests in Gdansk, the case of attempted murder of the parish priest in Great Wola-Paradiz. In a word, there were a whole series of topics that we've been studying, we've been taking on. We went to the D.A.'s office for explanations, we went to the police. And let me say this: I don't like to brag, really, but there was a very important event last year when I finished my term, but I continued to do my job. I've been honored by the Catholic Intelligence Club, the builder of bridges. It's really important to me, because it means that Catholic environments, or at least some of them, see me as a person who is able to take their affairs seriously and build bridges, agreements, because that's the point of this reward. There were a lot of questions about the challenges. I'd like to go back to what I said at the very end, not by accident. I think it's a responsibility. All of us. The point is that we take care of the functioning of our country during the pandemic, and what we learn from it. It's a responsibility to all those people who died. It is our responsibility (the bell) moral, historical responsibility. Each of us needs to think about what we could do. And it's not a matter of accounting for the authorities, it's not a question of retaliation. This is a matter of wondering where our country did not work and how we are supposed to improve it. If we don't do this, we're gonna waste it, it's just like we want to forget what happened. And yet this is one of the greatest tragedies that have happened. Of course, we can think about other challenges. There are challenges to artificial intelligence, for example. technology in the workplace. This is a very important thing. Glovo's employees' recent protest shows it. We may be wondering about the availability of vaccinations. I am very pleased that my actions in the context of the abolition of patent protection for specific vaccines have been recognised. Besides, I'm gonna have a round table meeting on this. The date is already scheduled, June 17th. We need to think about protecting the environment, especially climate change, and that's what we're going to do, because the pandemic has covered these issues a little bit, and they're still... Mr. Spokesman, finish up. There are a whole range of things that aren't done, and there are things that are usually in the world where we have a bad, inadequately functioning state. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Your Marshal... Ladies and gentlemen, I've listened, and it wasn't your questions, it was your thanks. Mr. Spokesman, I'm asking you to... May I have one more sentence for your marshal? One sentence. Your Marshal, this is the last point, really, allow me. Don't argue with me, sir. You're welcome. You need to show class, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, The last two sentences I'd like to address to your marshal. Mrs. Marshal! This is a very important moment, because you actually have to choose a new ombudsman by July 15th. In this situation, I believe that responsibility lies not only with groups of Members who have the right to submit candidates and candidates, but also with your marshal. [[Applause]] Mr. Spokesman, thank you for instructing me, which is my duty. I think it would be good if...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u199	The discussion is closed. I note that the Sejm took note of the Ombudsman's activities and of the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2020. Some Members get up and chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! [[The group of Members gives flowers to the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar, a long, turbulent applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the Law on the system of education and the Law on the financing of educational tasks (prints Nos 1199 and 1204). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee. Is Mrs Lydia Burzyńska here? I would very much like to ask you to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the law on the system of education and the law on the financing of educational tasks, prints no 1199 and 1204. Marshal of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The project enables the Minister responsible for education and education to establish programmes and projects to implement the education policy of the State. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth carried out its first reading on 20 May 2021, during which three amendments were tabled. Two of them were accepted by the committee. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u201	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Long-lasting, turbulent applause, ombudsman Adam Bodnar leaves the room]] I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the law on the system of education and the law on the financing of educational tasks. The aim of the project is to enable the Minister responsible for education and education to establish programmes and projects that open the way to the widely understood support of the Polish school in the field of education and education. These programmes will be published in the Public Information Bulletin in the form of a communication which will include: the subject-matter of the programme, the entities eligible for participation in the programme, the terms of participation, the procedure for the selection of applications and the detailed criteria for their evaluation. The funds for implementation are to be transferred to eligible entities under the agreement and will come from the Minister of Education and Science's reserve. It should be noted that similar provisions are contained in higher education legislation. Currently, due to the combination of the competences of two departments: education and science, it is advisable to equip the competent minister with the possibility of implementing a programme and projects supporting also school institutions, including among others. the implementation of psychological and pedagogical assistance for pupils, education support, patriotic education, equipment and equipment for schools and institutions with the necessary equipment. It is also important to create opportunities and conditions for training creativity and developing creative attitudes of the young generation. The calls for proposals under the programmes will also cover the area of developing the competences of pupils in the use of information and communication technology and in the development of school infrastructure. The bill is strongly supportive and pro-developmental, with positive social and legal effects. It should be noted that it does not entail a burden on the state budget or on the budgets of local government units. It is proposed that the draft law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Law and Justice Club supports the parliamentary bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u203	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with another case. However, Your Marshal, we could have announced a three-minute break so we could say goodbye to the Ombudsman... Member, please get to the point, ma'am. ...to really behave in this House... Get to the point. Time is running out for you, Member. ...like Members of the Republic of Poland. Really, Mrs Burzyńska could wait a while for us, indeed, to say goodbye to the Ombudsman's office, office and currently the Ombudsman's office as Members. That's what you deserve, Mr. Spokesman and the office he was in charge. [[Applause]] And now I'm moving on to the project. This is not just a project, ladies and gentlemen. This is a project that gives the Minister of Education the right to decide on the financing of education money and to educate his invented projects and programs without any rules. Such a provision is not needed in the Education Act, because in the Education Act we have provisions that allow the creation of government programmes to finance all the things that Mrs Burzyńska said. On the other hand, you want the Minister to implement his fanaber without any social control, without competitions, without all these rules, without public consultation - without all the rules that apply. This project goes through the Sejm at the speed of light. 3 days ago it was submitted in the Seym as a parliamentary project, today is the second reading. If it wasn't for your marshal to postpone the vote next Friday, he'd probably be voted out tonight. Why are you in such a hurry? Has Minister Czarnek already ordered any projects, he already has ideas to carry them out, and now all he needs is a recipe to pay for it? This project is not good for education. He serves the minister and realizes his fanaberia. The rapporteur spoke about the programmes. Will this project be implemented e.g. ideas related to the introduction of additional history lessons according to a programme written by law and justice politicians or experts chosen by Minister Czarnek? In these projects, will you fund computers for a school where the director fights with women's strike-friendly students? In this project, will you be giving out checks to local government officials, schools in local governments where you have your wojettes, mayors or presidents? This is what we see, and what you want to do today reminds us of the creation of a justice fund or a road fund, when you chose local governments, you chose organizations that obeyed PiS, and you could give them that money then. Next question: Where is the money for this project? Because if it were a government program, you'd have to give extra money for education and upbringing, you'd have to give extra money for such a program. In this way, you avoid this problem and allow the Minister to implement these programmes of money that are today in the budget for education and upbringing. What are you gonna get out of? With an education grant? From the psych-pedagogical clinic? Or with other tasks that are carried out in education? This project is not suitable for improvement. This is a harmful project that creates pathology. This is a project that should never have been created. This is a project that should be thrown into the trash. I'm putting in for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizen Coalition Club's motion to reject this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u205	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish school, and above all Polish youth, needs support after the pandemic. How significant support and how much he needs it - the best returning students, their parents and teachers know it. But this is also shown by hard, objective data and numbers. In the first quarter of 2021, the number of suicide attempts among young people increased by 25% compared to the same period last year. In just the first three months of this year, 271 children tried to take their own lives. Over 900,000. children in Poland are experiencing poverty. Our country is still struggling with the problem of malnutrition for the youngest, and school feeding programmes are far from sufficient. The total digital exclusion is experienced by tens of thousands of students in Poland. Over a million children could not fully participate in remote lessons during closing school. During the pandemic, educational inequalities grew, and today almost half of Polish teenagers suffer from depression. Self-governments are not financially able to bear the enormous challenges of education and upbringing. Education subsidies are still too low. The difference between educational expenditure and subsidies is over PLN 30 billion. The municipalities lack money to pay teachers supplementary allowances, and the government refused to accept 10% increases for teachers, although it is on them that the mission to restore the school to normality will rest. In such difficult times for the Polish school, any law which would guarantee funds for compensatory programmes, psychological assistance for children, a programme for the nutrition of pupils, digitisation of education, professional improvement of teachers and the provision of decent salaries to school workers could count on the support of the Left, regardless of which party the logo would appear in the heading of such a law, regardless of whether Mr Przemysław Czarnek or anyone else would be in the Ministry of Education. Because a warm meal at school does not have political colors, and every hungry child is just a shame for the state, because every Polish school deserves to be modernised and jumped into the future, because there is no good education without properly paid teachers, and the teacher's salary should be linked to the average salary in the economy. As a Left, we will support any law that responds to these challenges. But it's not a bill. This law in its current form does not finance Polish schools, does not increase subsidies, does not support pupils, does not strengthen the professional position of teachers. The sole and exclusive beneficiary of this law is the Minister of Education. Your project is like an unlimited monopoly of public funding for education by one minister. You're putting money for a member of the government over money for children. No minister, whether a right-wing man, liberals or left-wings, should have the power to decide whatever money you find in the world and for what you do not. Because the education system is a common good, not a private farm of the minister, or a Czarnka, or any other. You are prosecuting this law in an incomprehensible parliamentary, express mode and want it to enter into force only 14 days after its adoption, so this year, when the education budget is already set. During the meeting of the Education Committee, Deputy Minister Romankowski assured that the funds for the programmes and projects set up by the Minister would come from the Ministry's reserve this year and not from the strain of this year's, and so modest, budget for educational tasks. It's a good statement, but it's just words. There are no such guarantees in the bill. If the Ministry has to use financial reserves, it is high time to run them and spend on what students, teachers and schools need, not on pocket money for Minister Czarnek. Write down the objectives of expenditure, programmes and projects in the Act. Enter there, as amended by the Left, material aid for students, psychological support, digitisation of education and development of school infrastructure - honest and black and white. Then and only then will the Left consider a voice other than opposition, although it would be best for this parliamentary project to be lost, and the government prepared its own government law and conducted a mandatory public consultation, with experts, parents, students, teachers, school directors and trade unions. Because they know best what the Polish school is missing today. They have the right to be heard, and the ministry, the government and the parliament have a duty to hear their voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u207	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u208	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A small bill, large powers - that's how you characterize this project that we're dealing with here today. His residual justification basically says everything about this project. I'm from local government. The establishment of programmes, their implementation and evaluation have always been the most widely distributed competence. There was no mention of transparency, no use of consultation, that - in the case of local government - the resolution authority, councillors, sejmik always decide this. No single board member, not even a marshal, not even the entire board of directors has ever decided. And that is the difference between the local government, today in the constitutional edition, not so much affected by the current power, and what the government and the rule of law and justice are serving us today. Unfortunately, the broad power, the legislative power, the resolution is marginalized, it is limiting us, Members, the powers of the Sejm, this parliament, the committee. I regret this because there has always been broad consultation, opinions have been added value, especially in such a sensitive area as education and education. Unfortunately, through this law, we are creating rules that constitute a blank cheque for Minister Czarnek. And we're all afraid of it, because he'll be able to do more. Unfortunately, his fame is not very good. If we hadn't known the practices that this government had followed, if it hadn't been for the fame of Minister Czarnek, these fears would probably have been less, but unfortunately they are getting worse. Everyone's worried that these new programs are gonna be some kind of indoctrination, some kind of going towards pseudo-triotism, pseudo-programs that don't go to school at all. We don't want education going in this direction. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm afraid so. When we observe your policies, this conclusion can be reached. It's sad to come to that. Unfortunately, by adopting this law, the rank of all kinds of projects falls. De facto ad hoc funds are being created, for the need for the moment, for the needs, I hope not political, but this cannot be avoided. And I think that there will be no control over the controversial ideas that everyone expects, being careful about the approach to the rules that are being made. I believe that at this moment other draft laws should affect the Polish Parliament. Today, in a country that is struggling with the consequences of the epidemic, we should bet on something completely different and expect other contributions from the Ministry of Education and Education. We should fight the consequences of the educational losses we face. I believe that today the Minister should stand here and say that since the new school year, there should be an English lesson every day, that we must fight for a warm meal to have every student in school, not to grasp new regulations, new powers that, I think, will bring nothing good with them. I remember and see how funds and programmes of all kinds are limited, not just educational ones. I remember the Physical Culture Development Fund, which was very low in terms of levels of self-government. Today there is a dangerous centralization of programs of all kinds. And you want to lock them in ministerial offices, and because of the name, they should be widely presented and consulted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u209	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u210	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law, which was introduced the day before yesterday, which was urgently examined in the education committee yesterday, was rescheduled so quickly that it itself raises some doubts. I'm not gonna complain that you had to act fast. This bill has two sides, so it's not like you couldn't get to know it either. You did better when there was an anti-crisis shield. There were 250 pages, and it was also necessary to get acquainted in one evening to be able to participate in the debate the next day. So that's not the point. I think we should work here day and night as long as we make a good law. Meanwhile, what you're proposing here, unfortunately, has so much. various flaws and there are so many doubts that this can be called a moneyjump from the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, because it would be desirable for the Ministry of Education after this difficult pandemic year, in which young people's ability to learn properly in the normal way was blocked, to come up with some repair programs in a completely different way, in a completely different way. Yeah, I'm afraid so. Firstly, it is said that the Minister will be discretionaryly granting money from various grants, according to his own will, of course. This money can theoretically go, for example. for equipment, for renovation, but they can also go to additional classes, training run by some organizations, by some foundations, by associations. I suspect, of course, that these associations, these foundations, the companies that are going to benefit from it, are going to be companies that, as it turns out later, have some connection to mother's party. This is usually the case - a direct, direct relationship, but it always happens. We know this very well, but it's only a matter of how deep you're gonna have to dig to find out. Unfortunately, that's how it works when there's no fair bid when there's no bidding. After all, the minister could announce a competition and make an open bidding, then, say, we would be closer to achieving a goal for fair money by honest contractors. Unfortunately, however, it will be a fund that the Minister will have at his discretion. That's one thing. Secondly, in the Act you did not specify the costs they would have to bear in connection with this Act. You've quite clearly written that this bill doesn't generate any additional costs. And if this bill doesn't generate any additional costs, that means that this money is already at the disposal of the Ministry. And what money is already available to the Ministry? It's the money from the education grant. This subsidy, which, when you go to any municipality, to any mayor, to any president of the city, each one will tell you that because the subsidy is so low, the local government is being invaded. Self-government, for which we have no doubt that you are fighting it, self-government, which you do not want, because centralization of power is your goal, self-government, which gets very little money from you to keep the so-called. local schools - so-called local, because we know perfectly well that they are still state and unfortunately we have a mixed system pretended to, for which no one knows what to properly call it. This system is being run over by you because you can't manage this money properly. You're afraid of privatization solutions, you're afraid of making good changes, and you're doing this kind of thing again by shifting responsibility to local governments, because the money that Minister Czarnek is going to spend on this project is going to be taken away from the subsidies. The subsidy will be reduced by this because the ministry has some fanaber that it needs to implement. That's what it's gonna look like. There is no serious discussion about the real needs of the school. There is no discussion about education, there is no discussion about the programme that we have at this point, about the programme basis, there is no discussion about what will happen to these yearbooks of young people. Young people, listen, who throughout the year - all year - had on-line classes, young people who during that time had learned not to learn. In this whole situation, I personally thank God that I have two-year-old sons, not 12-year-olds, because today's teenagers will have a really incredibly hard time since September. This is still a mess in the schools that you are introducing, a mess about the situation of teachers and also about the changes that you propose in other laws. This bill shouldn't come out. That kind of money should not be at the disposal of Minister Czarnek. If we are conducting such projects at all, it should be done publicly, on the basis of auctions, and not so that Minister Czarnek will grant any amount of any organisation at his discretion, because this will always lead to a situation where you finance to a greater or lesser extent your own. We'll be against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u211	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u212	Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, I present our position on the draft law amending the law on the system of education and the law on the financing of educational tasks. This proposal gives the Minister very broad prerogatives to initiate various programmes. What programs? Programs. That should be enough for us. Here is Minister Czarnek envied Zbigniew Ziobra with a bag of money for any spending. By robbing even so little money for education, he wants to create a private purse like the Justice Fund, which, I will remind you, serves to distribute homophobic gifts to the authorities of anti-LGBT municipalities and to make his own campaign. A similar purpose will be served by the new treasury of Minister Czarnek: giving her, sharing, intimidation, stinging at minorities. This law creates a fund of violence, a fund of propaganda and fear in the Polish school, a fund of blackmailing Polish education, an inquisition fund. But we've survived the partitions, we're going to survive this. Question: "How many deadly children will he pay for this suffering and even with his life?" In addition to the outrageous, authoritarian way of giving away this money, it is worth noting that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure do not apply to it. So the Minister's arbitrary decisions will not even be appealable. Poland 2050 requests that this project be rejected in its entirety at second reading. Poland 2050 will also present a comprehensive programme before the new school year, which should look good and friendly to all students. But the shit we're talking about today needs to be thrown in the trash right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u213	Thank you, Member. We're going to ask questions. 13 Members have come forward. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. Please, as the first question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question about the finances of this fund or the program. It's about the programs and projects of the Minister of Education. It will be money from education. I wanted to ask you specifically, how much money is there, and where are they coming from? From the budget. And another question: For whom? Because in this project, I'm very simplistic, there's nothing about it. Is this money gonna be from education subsidies, or maybe from the missing money for individual education, for psycho-pedagogical counseling, for school-youth shelters? There's money everywhere. And what are the criteria for separation? With this we have very bad experiences. Everyone's afraid that this money will be shared unfairly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to these lies about the discretion of funds and funds granted by individual ministries, I will give you just one example, an example of one county, a district managed by the Polish People's Party, i.e. a district not managed by the United Right: 350 thousand. in the situation of COVID - a threat to the lives and health of residents - from the Justice Fund, the fund about which the State says it is a fund for its own, 350 thousand. for the Proszowice County, where the Polish People's Party rules. Second example: 4270 thousand. from the Government Local Investment Fund for Proszowice County, for Proszowice Hospital for treatment, for equipment, for the county managed by the Polish People's Party. Don't lie to me, tell me we're giving money away to our local government. Thank you very much, sir. Minister! The question is, about 300,000. hours of additional sports activities within sports clubs: Will these investments, this money for sports activities be a long-term investment? Because we know the kids... Thank you very much, sir. They're going back to school. Tell me if it's going to be a long-term investment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u217	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Darius Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u218	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, Minister Czarnek envied Minister Ziobra of his own fundus, the Solidarity Fund, which is issued completely contrary to the law, Minister Glinski, who, in turn, has other money to give away his own, the Minister of Health, who also finances the familiar rabbit, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen! This is just a scandal, what are you doing with this budget. How can another Minister be provided with funds that are not covered by any legislation, in addition to a situation where education suffers from a deep financial deficit? Ask your teachers, ask your parents. How can you even sign the bill that gives Minister Czarnko to a man who accuses the European Union of being illegal, financial resources to achieve his own political, party goals in the field of education? [[Applause]] We're not voting for this type of vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] legal acts that break the law and break the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u219	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u220	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Here Mr Kaczmarczyk has moved a bit because of the fact that, among other things, Mr Kaczmarczyk. I suggested that money would be spent discretionaryly and that money would not necessarily be spent correctly. I'd like to remind you of the early two thousand years when there was something like a campaign. Let them see us. Do you remember this campaign? Do you know what that was about? They were billboards throughout Poland promoting homosexual couples, it was a campaign that was supposed to tame us with the fact that there is homosexuality in Poland. Do you know where the money came from for this campaign? From the Prime Minister's firm, from the Prime Minister's office during the SLD regime. That's the situation I'm talking about. Now it's not SLD, it's law and justice. I imagine that this money can be spent on the same, identical projects, of course not in this direction, but precisely in the second one. How it hurts. I don't necessarily think that's the right direction. That's it. And the second thing is, since I've already said that. I wanted to ask: Where will the money come from, how much money will be made, and how soon will it be done? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Short question, short answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u221	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Although amending the law is a parliamentary initiative, I would like to ask the Minister how you assess these proposed amendments. How will they feed Polish education in the fields of creativity, education, education and, above all, infrastructure? I have one more question, I think, very important question: Will there be programmes aimed at patriotic education within these powers? If so, how do you see it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u223	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the project states that the new programmes of Minister Czarnek will be paid out of funding for education and education, but without any impact on the state budget. I therefore have the following questions: What amount is foreseen for these programmes in 2021 and beyond? Will the funds for the Minister's programmes save on the salaries of officials of ministries and curatoria, or will they simply be taken from local governments, namely de facto teachers, schools and students? Will the Minister finance programmes on the fight for freedom and human rights, in particular women's rights? Will the conclusions be evaluated by expert teams? According to what key will these experts be appointed? I would ask the Minister, first of all, to answer me in writing, and secondly, if he can, to consider what the entire House is asking to throw this project in the trash. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u225	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u226	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First remark to Mr Kaczmarczyk. Mr. Speaker! I answer your words: exceptions are, but they are not rules. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I expected that in this Parliament - I am directing these words to the Minister - we will finally be dealing with the funding of education. It is about the total acquisition of education funding by the government, by the current rulers, by the United Right. Why, ladies and gentlemen? That's because today local governments are paying up to 40-50%. These are facts. Ladies and gentlemen! Today you're talking about $30,000. tax-free zloty. This is, ladies and gentlemen, one in four zlotys, 33% in the budgets of municipalities with their own income. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to draw from local governments, because one day these local governments will point to education as the element to which they will restrict funding. Therefore, Minister, once again please: if you actually consider education to be a very important element, you will take it on your pot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And local governments can handle their debtors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u227	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u228	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The position towards this bill is a litmus paper, which political biases want the good of Polish education, which wants the good of Poland. Because you're criticizing a bill that assumes that the Minister will be able to set up programs to finance all kinds of educational tasks. And you do not even hide the fact that you simply wish that the Minister would not have such opportunities, in other words, that these problems, which concern Polish education, would not be solved. This is an anti-state position. I don't know if you guys feel it. You often refer to the Justice Fund as such an example of actions that aim to make the Minister happy, I don't know. Well, I remind you, or I inform you, that with the Justice Fund, for example. all units have been co-financed [[♪ The bell ♪]] TSOs across the country, whether the bridesmaids and bridesmaids were there from the Platform, from the PSL, or from the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. And that's what's important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the question: What was the name of the Minister of Education, who raised young people so that she was overly patriotic because she made an absurd January uprising, the Greater Poland Uprising? What was the name of the Minister of Education who taught patriotism to young people at the time? No one taught them. They taught their families. The ministers of education were the Russians, the Germans, who wanted to eradicate patriotism. Young people are perverse. I said in the Seym: when religion moves into schools, the Church will lose its youth. And he lost it. Now I'm telling you, if you teach patriotism the same way, you're gonna lose it. Young people will laugh at the word "patriotism," if you do so. The state implementation of these noblest ideas makes the effect exactly the opposite. I wanted to ask you if you realize that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u231	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The situation in education is very bad. Over 40% adolescents have symptoms of depression. The situation was difficult before the pandemic when the programs were overloaded. Young people, and at school and beyond, spent far too much time doing their homework. Now the situation is even more difficult. Moreover, this situation is best illustrated by the fact that the wealthier people, the middle class, are starting to drift away from public schools towards private schools. These are all extremely disturbing symptoms that the state is not trying to treat. We don't find money to support teachers. We do not find money to support schools financed mainly from the budgets of municipalities. I have a question: What are you going to do about it? And second question. You said you would be spending money from the ministerial reserve for the implementation of this law. What kind of money is this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and what concrete actions are to be taken this year? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u233	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Modern development is based on knowledge, education, which is the basis of progress, innovation and civilizational development. In the European Union, it is said that it focuses on knowledge-based development, on progress. Pandemic has violated this process of stability of the education system in Poland. There has been almost a 1.5-year break in educational continuity. Of course, it is not only about teaching itself, but also about disrupting certain processes of education, group life processes, which for young people is It's so important. Experts say that this educational gap could result in a future imbalance in our civilizational development and also in a significant decline in GDP. What actions the resort plans to make up for (The Bell) this gap that arose in education... Thank you very much, sir. ...of this generation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u235	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Andrzej Noble, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This draft law on the system of education and the law on the financing of educational tasks allows the Minister responsible for education and education to establish programmes and projects which will be published in the Public Information Bulletin on their own subject-matter. However, in the discussion there were allegations that this form of financing of projects would be non-transparent. Minister! Is the provisions contained in Article. Point 1 (3) that the communication is to contain the subject of the programme, the entities entitled to participate in the programme, the conditions for participation, the procedure for carrying out the selection of the programme and the detailed criteria for assessing the applications, sufficiently safeguard the transparency of the public spending? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u237	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, I agree with the other Members that this bill is the construction of another treasury for the Minister of Education, which is modelled on the Minister of Justice. Question: "Which minister will want to build a similar bank?" But since the parawannament of this law is the need to build new educational programs, I have a request to the Deputy Minister to give two or three examples of what new programmes you are planning to implement next year, because since this law has been submitted, you are probably based on your plans. The second point is to refer to those Members of the PiS who tried to defend the integrity of the local investment fund. You've given exceptions that are the rule that this program wasn't properly distributed. I will give you an example from my voivodship - where the authority is kind, you have been given an extension of the parking lot near the gmina, and where it is in opposition, you have not been given (the bell) for the extension of the hospital. Thank you very much. That's not enough. You're funding the pitches so much that it's scored higher. Thank you very much, sir. ...the fence of the field than its construction. Thank you very much. Sir, can't you hear me? Can you hear me? Thank you. But my example was very important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u239	In corrigendum: half a minute, sir, misunderstood your statement, I understand. Ask how Marshal Struzik is divided.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Turnip! Mr Klimczak! Call the Chief of the Palace, Mr. Marcin Gawl, who recently used the Justice Fund... But that's not a correction. Your Marshal, this is not a correction. ...in the amount of 40,000. PLN 1 million and from the Government Local Investment Fund. You're lying and you're tearing down local and parliamentary relations in the field. Don't... Sir, that's not a correction. Your Marshal... ...that kind of work, because above all, you're tearing down relationships and tearing down funding to these local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. You're doing the wrong job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u241	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. It's a shame he's so allowed to speak. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Mr. Tomasz Romankowski. It's a bust in the O.R. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If I may ask to cool my emotions, I will try, first of all, to refer to the Members of... Ladies and gentlemen, I ask both sides to remain calm. The Minister will have the opportunity to speak. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you very much, Marshal. ...a draft law, as well as various questions, but also misconceptions - because some of you attended the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth yesterday and some of these issues have already been explained, I assume the wrong will. Firstly, the bill itself in our assessment is a very good project, because it harmonises the Ministry of Education and Science. The same mechanism has been in the composition of science and higher education for years. Only this year, the State budget for the programmes of the Minister of Education and Science in the science component is allocated PLN 150 million. The same solution is found in this draft law. I would therefore like to refer to these, I would say, insinuations, because yesterday we also talked about this - identical mechanisms, which have been in place for years, do not raise any doubts about the people who, from universities or research institutions, are asking for these funds, about the money from the Minister's individual programmes and receive this money. As for the transparency of these funds, I don't think anyone has any doubts because nobody raises them. The whole financial process can be found in the Public Information Bulletin on the Ministry's website. What one of my previous speakers has presented, namely the precise course - what are the means and how it is decided to grant them - is set out in the Minister's communication. As far as experts are concerned, because this question has arisen, the selection of experts is also fully transparent. The entire course of the competition process is also transparent. All participants, criteria, all of this is objective and given on the page. About the question that also caused my surprise, i.e. The subject of these Minister's programmes is, I ask you, as if you had looked at the law or participated fully consciously in the committee meeting yesterday, to learn that the programmes are dictated by the directions of implementation of the education policy of the State, which are defined annually by the Minister of Education and Science. This is the answer to what will be dictated by these projects. That's another line. The Justice Fund has been raised several times as a reference. I would just like to remind Minister Shumilas, who referred to this. Dear Member, Minister, it was for the governments that the Justice Fund was created in 2011, so do not suggest that the Justice Fund was created now. But it wasn't published like that. I am referring to the facts, Mrs Skowronska, and please do not huff. But it wasn't published like that. As far as further questions are concerned. In our view, the draft law responds mainly to the expectations of young people, parents and teachers, who repeatedly try in the same way as in the case of higher education, to apply for these measures. The lack of this mechanism means that we cannot run such mechanisms. As far as financial resources are concerned, we do not know when the bill will be passed and in what form. The appropriations for these programmes are not provided for in the State budget, but are provided for in the Minister of Education's reserve. That, too, is, I would say, a lie that you have repeatedly said here, that the funds for the Minister's programmes will be cut out of education subsidies. And also the question of another manipulation, which takes place in a general way, i.e. The task of local government, local government, district government, the task of self-government is to run educational institutions. It is absurd to shed tears about the fact that money goes out of the individual's budget to support the school. Education subsidy is a support from the (Ring) state budget for this task, but this is the task of self-government. If you want to go back 30 years and restate schools right now, I wish you good luck talking to local government. Mr President, please proceed to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: I'm almost done, Marshal. I spoke on the issue of transparency. Budget 2022 This will be set out in the Budget Act. I am surprised that there are such questions at all, what the situation will be like next year or in the years to come. As far as sport is concerned, there is certainly a promotion of sport in the policies of the Ministry of Education and Science. I guess I kind of took it back at the appointed time... Sorry for the delay, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand, Mrs Kaczmarczyk, half a minute, in line with the correction, that you have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I suggest you learn to read... No, Mrs... Member, please... ...to read the law, the constitution of higher education... Yesterday... Member of the Commission, Mrs Shumilas. Can I talk to you for a second? Member, don't insult anybody. Ma'am, I'm really asking you to control what you're saying, okay? There you go. Please don't insult me either, Minister. You haven't been insulted, my fellow Member. There was no response from your marshal. Minister, please read the Law on Higher Education (Bell) and see in this Act that the provision which has been transferred to the parliamentary project is a part-time provision. That's what we've been telling you, and it's proved to you by the law office... Legitimate. ... Legislature Bureau. Thank you very much, Madam President, because I do not see the correction of your statement, which was supposedly misunderstood. Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed... Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u245	Madam President, the debate is closed. That's how teachers fight. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Since at the time of the second reading the draft amendment and the rejection request were tabled, this proposal will be sent back to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives (prints Nos 1203 and 1205). I ask Mrs Beata Arrow to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the law on the circles of rural hostess, print no. 1203. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 19 May 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The proposed amendments concern comprehensive regulation of issues related to the creation, organisation and functioning of the rural hostel circles. The activities of the rural hostel circles are an important and very wide-ranging social initiative, particularly in rural areas, and the proposed changes are intended to regulate the functioning of the rings, as well as to make it possible to raise more funding for the tasks and activities undertaken by these organisations. The draft law was adopted unanimously by the committee. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 20 May this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u247	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mrs Teresa Pamuła's Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the honor of presenting on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position regarding a government draft law amending the law on the circles of rural hostess. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act of 9 November 2018 on the Wheels of Rural Housewives has empowered the working circles of rural housewives and has enabled the formation of new ones. It revived the villages and small towns, and in particular allowed them to become independent, develop by obtaining legal personality, financial support, and the possibility of obtaining funds from other sources. The proposed amendment of the Act of 9 November 2018 on the Wheels of Rural Housewives aims to ensure a comprehensive regulation related to the creation, organisation and operation of the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The aim of the whole project is also to amend the rules governing the provision of assistance to them. One of the most far-reaching changes is the transfer of competences in the field of assistance to the rural housewives' collectives from the minister responsible for regional development to the minister responsible for rural development. This amendment is primarily intended to support rural development, to provide comprehensive assistance to the rural hostel groups, and to improve the registration and transfer of funds to these circles. Before the date of entry into force of the Act of 9 November 2018 on Wheels of Rural Houses in Rural Areas, there were already circles. They functioned on the basis of the Act of 8 October 1982 on social and professional farmers' organisations, but also acted in the form of associations. The amended provisions only clarify the principles of circles already having legal personality. In the draft amended law, these provisions are clarified in such a way that e.g. the entry in the register of housewives' wheels and changes that can be made are defined by a date which was not previously available. This is the term e.g. 30 days. The rules for eliminating the rings of rural hostesses have been clarified, but the possibility of extending the list of members to a minimum status within a certain period of time has also been clarified. Sometimes the ladies haven't made these changes, and they've missed the deadline for making them. These are also very important changes that the Ministry has taken into account and will be very beneficial for the rural hostels' circles. One of the most significant changes to the amended law is the authority's competence to take decisions on the entry in the national register and grant them assistance. In the proposed act, the issuing authority will be the head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, previously the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. The amendments made to the Act are governed by the general rules for the granting of financial assistance. The source of this aid will already be targeted grants from the Minister responsible for Rural Development on the basis of this revised law, and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will have these funds and will transfer them at the request of the groups of rural hostels. I would like to say that as many as 9402 registered and applying for rural housewives were registered and applied for in 2020 and that 32 nearly 33 million zlotys were allocated to their activities. The most registered circles are in Wielkopolska, Mazowieckie, Małopolskie, Podkarpackie and Łódź voivodships. Such circles registered in 2018, when the Act entered into force, were 4913, i.e. as you can see, actually doubled the number of registered circles of rural housewives kept in the Registers of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. There are still many (Bingle) wheels that are not registered. I encourage all ladies to do this. I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen very much for this work for the Polish countryside. The Law and Justice Club calls for the adoption by the High House of a law submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u249	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, in relation to this draft law on the amendment of the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. Polish women, whether rural women or urban women, are known for their hospitality, resourcefulness and creativity. And that's why they always need the support and need it very much. Rural hostels' circles - and I know quite a lot of them, I come from Mazury, where there are many rural areas - work very dynamically, women are incredibly ingenious and their diligence is amazing. I suspect that there are the same number of rural hostels in our areas, just like in Wielkopolska or Małopolska, only most of them are not formalised because it is a bottom-up initiative, which is the most valuable initiative, because it comes directly from women themselves. They do not look forward to organizing themselves and waiting for any funds that were very little or were shared in very diverse ways. Women are very well organized, and they do so with great enthusiasm. A very important factor is the time when you can get this support, because it looks like this: you speak and you have. Today is an idea and tomorrow is implemented immediately. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this project because these measures are essential for our women. However, we hope that all women will receive this support, regardless of their political views, regardless of their positions, and we hope that these measures will be implemented quite quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u251	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Obaz, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u252	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project, which rarely happens, is a government project, which is why, Prime Minister, we are glad that your government is getting more and more ideas from the Left. I would like to remind you that it was the Left who called for the annual funding of the rural housewives' circles, which was supported by the amendments to last year's law and to the budget for 2021. To date, the rural hostess' circles have only been financed in the years in which Law and Justice campaigned. What was previously rejected by the Members of the PiS without reflection only because the amendments were made by the Left Club is now coming back in an almost identical form. But why are you fixing your own mistakes in the privacy of your government benches? Why don't you want to talk about these kinds of laws? As a result, rural hostels' wheels could obtain faster and more efficient financial assistance for their tasks. And there is something to talk about, because the rural hostels' circles have gained popularity in recent years. We can observe the formation of new wheels, as well as the reactivation of suspended ones. However, each of them is redesigned to some extent, preserving its individuality and uniqueness. It is difficult on the map of Poland to indicate a region in which there is no such a wheel. It also welcomes the fact that more and more often, in addition to traditional forms of rural hostels - existing in our country for more than 140 years, originally emancipated - there are also circles of rural hosts. The role of housewives and rural hosts in society is invaluable. For at least a few reasons. Firstly, thanks to the energy and willingness of members and members of these organisations, entrepreneurship in rural areas develops and develops, the rural hostel circles carry out social, educational and educational activities, contributing to their development. Secondly, the rural hostel circles are invaluable in initiating local projects, starting with the integration of rural residents and the activation of the local community. Thirdly, you cannot underestimate the tasks that rural housewives perform in the area of care of local tradition and folk art. Today's Circles of Housewives and Rural Hosts are increasingly brought together by young people, full of innovative ideas for the whole community. It is their energy and their willingness to act that break the stereotypes regarding the perception of both the rural hostels' circles and the villagers. Thanks to them, regional products, which are a showcase of individual regions of Poland are gaining popularity, are also produced by housewives such as homemade bread, bigos or pumpkin doughnuts, but also many other products that promote rural areas. This extraordinary potential in local organizations makes them increasingly noticed and appreciated by local authorities. For local authorities, rural hostels are important support because they are a showcase of organized events and represent municipalities at numerous exhibitions, competitions or cross-regional forums. The biggest concern of the wheels is the underfunding of initiatives undertaken, including the search for possible sponsors. The majority of the wheels are maintained solely by their members' contributions and by what they work out. In addition, municipalities are trying to reach as many wheels as possible by providing grants and support. Therefore, You should be glad that the government, at least in part, stands where the local government has long been. It is to be hoped that the allocation of PLN 40 million to support the rural host families - both those with no more than 30 members and those with more than 75 people in their ranks - is only the beginning of the interest that the government has suddenly given to existing hosts and rural hosts for years. The fact that it is only now that the competences for the provision of support to the rural housewives for their tasks have been transferred from the Minister for Regional Development to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development indicates that the PiS government has so far been unable to link the activities of the circles with the development of rural regions. All the more so, the Left accepts with satisfaction the draft law on amending the law on the wheels of rural hostesses and fully supports it. If it hadn't been for the Left, it would have been the PiS about the role and merit of the village housewives' circles that would have remembered again just before the election itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u253	It is interesting that no previous governments have remembered this, sir. On behalf of the Polish Coalition, Mr Dariusz Klimczak. You're welcome. Don't comment on the words of the Member. Mr President, I am also an MEP and I have a mandate. And don't lecture me. But it was ugly. Don't lecture me. That's ugly what you're doing. Then let's not lecture. Mr Klimczak is not here. In that case, Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Village hostels' circles, you have to remember that, they have very long traditions. And the interesting thing is that the first company of housewives was founded in 1866 in Piaseczno, Pomerania. It's such a small town near Anger. It's worth remembering. These are traditionally women's organizations, although in fact we also have men in these wheels. They play a very important role in the life of the Polish village. That's something you should keep in mind all the time. It is the hostess's circles that help to raise, as well as to form in the spirit of Polishness and patriotism of the youngest generations of Poles. These associations play a significant cultural and creative role, especially in the area of folk culture. They usually also promote traditions and model of a normal family. It is such a relay and depositary of our national culture and it is understandable that such initiatives are supported by the state. I am pleased that the rural housewives' circles will no longer be discriminated against because of the legal form they have adopted for their actions, as they had done before. However, I wonder why it is necessary to wait so long to launch an online registration platform for housewives' wheels in Arimr. Why was it not until 2023? I also have some doubts about the treatment of professional associations other than ordinary associations. On the other hand, it is important to appreciate the unique role of rural hostess circles, which must be remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u255	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of... Mr. Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. As I understand it, continuation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u256	I think the best summary of this debate will be the sentence expressed by Mr Obaz that the PiS is implementing the Left programme. It's rare, because a true sentence coming from the mouth of a representative of the Left. It's worth remembering. The Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives was established only in 2018 and is already updated for the third time. Bravo. Exactly every year in spring comes the time for a traditional picking in the housewife's bill. A new secular tradition. Can't you guys just sit down and write something once and damn straight so you don't have to write it? Every year to correct? First, we have a great idea to entrust the task to the Minister of Regional Development, then even better idea to pass it on to the Minister of Agriculture. And so we go from victory to victory, every time - a great idea. The very history of this law shows that you are simply walking into a classic trap of regulationism. There are now organizations that are similar to rural hostels, and they ask why they do not receive such support. If sheep are supported, the people who raise goats will come and ask, "Why not us? ' But you don't understand. What are you saying? If you can get it from the goats, you'll get it from those who grow pigs over and over and over again. Once you put those clumsy fingers in complicated economics, then you have to fix something that's broken all the time. For years, fundamental changes have not been proposed, e.g. in a family code that would correct the pathological discrimination of fathers in courts. You can't ask to change the OC system, even the stupid registration of a vehicle on demand, cancel the report or extend the possibility of direct sales by farmers. Mr... And yet, for the third time or fourth time, we have time to pick the housewives' wheels. Yes, you do. In order to give 100 zlotys to the country housewives, the government must take 150 zlotys from taxpayers in taxes, because the officials who take them and the officials who spend do not work for free, right? The whole operation is to take it quietly and put it out loud. Take - for the price of fuel to the tractor, for the price of electricity increases, for highways, in the tax for e.g. Fertilizers, add to the regulations that increase the cost of livestock farming, and then play hero for someone else's money and hand out beads. There's nothing for free. Don't be fooled by the citizens. They still have another version of the animal five in their closet, and they want to wade your eyes with some kind of beads. I said that last year, and I'm gonna say to every next amendment of this bill, "Don't get bought with your money." Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u257	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Currently there are 10,000 in Poland. Rural hostels' circles. They cultivate traditions, support a number of local initiatives. We love their dishes, bakes, products, drinks, but above all, we love the atmosphere they create. Everywhere the circles of the country housewives appear, there is simply an excellent atmosphere. And for this atmosphere, thank you very much to all the ladies who make up the circles of the country housewives, because it is mostly Poles who love it. And what we are today members of the rural housewives' circles owe is above all the absolute non-politicisation of these wheels. Because it is precisely the charm that they are independent, apolitical, that they consist of representatives of citizens and citizens and maintain just such a bottom-up, completely self-organizing structure. The less politics in the wheels, the better. The transfer of competences in support of the rural housewives' collectives from the Minister for Regional Development to the Minister for Rural Development and the partial decentralisation in this area, as regards the registration of the wheels, as well as the payment of the co-financing, the transfer of powers to the level of directors of the Regional Branches of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is probably not the worst. Only the question arises, what are the intentions behind it. I hope that it is not that the Minister for Regional Development has simply failed to politicise these circles, and now you are hoping that the Minister for Rural Development will have more force in this regard. Because that's really not the point. The fact that the wheels will be able to work in a more organized way, have money for stable activity, is really good, because the wheels should operate in a stable way, should be able to apply for funding so that they can create a wonderful atmosphere and cultivate traditions. However, as I said, what they need in the last order is politicians interfering in their activities and ministers, who will try to divide them again into circles cultivating right-wing tradition, circles cultivating center tradition or left-wing traditions. To this, ladies and gentlemen, we can't really get there, because that's what the Poles will never forgive us for. So that, as I said, decentralisation - yes. The funds should probably be distributed where they are spent. It is best, of course, if the allocation of funds were transferred to the level of local government, because I also do not see why the regional branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture should do so. If we had moved this to the local level, no one would have really been harmed if the government had been a bit off the money, which is also spent on local civic activities, on local citizens' initiatives. I think that would be pretty good. Just as self-government should remain apolitical, so circles of housewives - first of all. And the same thing... Your Marshal, we're about to have a voluntary firefighter's bill in our House. Don't do this. It's not worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u259	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish Coalition, Mr Stefan Krajewski, remotely, from what I hear. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u260	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the government's draft law on the circles of rural housewives, prints no 1203 and 1205. I would like to remind Members of the ruling option that the circles of the country hostess did not invent either the president of Jarosław Kaczyński or President Andrzej Duda, and the date of establishment is not 9 November 2018. In 1877 in the village of Janisławice Filipina Plaskowicka founded the first village in Poland. A similar organization, the company of housewives, worked in 1866 in the village Piaseczno in Pomerania Gdański. They focused on helping rural families, raising, education, helping to organise children's and young people's recreation, health care and social protection for rural families, developing women's entrepreneurship, increasing the participation of villagers in the field of culture, cultivating folklore. Before 9 November 2018, they acted on the basis of the Act on socio-professional farmers' organisations and regulations adopted by them. There was also the possibility to appoint a circle in the form of a regular or registered association. PiS suddenly wanted to have full knowledge and power over the circles of rural hostesses, because they could lead hostile actions towards the rulers. It has therefore included new wheels in the register of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, giving the possibility to raise an average of 3,4 thousand. zł, depending on the size of the wheel, and here, of course, introducing another division between old and new wheels. It is a good thing that in the end these tasks are passed down, that eventually the authority will be the head of the district office and the head of the regional branch, eventually it will be under the Ministry of Agriculture, because nothing to do with the Ministry of Regional Development has and has not had these wheels. Here I would like to thank my colleagues from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for the efficient operation of these tasks, in order to ensure that this is recognised by the central authorities. I would also like to thank all the rural hostels in this place, especially the ladies who are hardworking, entrepreneurial, committed and concerned about their loved ones, about their localities. The Polish Coalition Club will vote for this change, which will decentralize this process. Hopefully more of that. Unfortunately, we also know the attitude of the leaders to the rural community, and it was best shown by the Senator PiS-u Jarosław Rusiecki, reworking the fire flag, which is a saint for firefighters and their families, to the LGBT flag. He wanted to make a joke like that with the firemen. Only before the election do you remember about firefighters, about local rural communities, and you have to remember them constantly. Of course, the rural hostels have the support of each level of government. It should be remembered that, apart from the activities in the circles of rural hostesses, these women, all those involved have a lot of work, professional duties, and work that they do for their loved ones in their families, but they find time to change our little homelands. It's gotta be supported. May such support be continuous, not individual. It is the support that flows from many places. In the Podlaskie Voivodeship, from which I come, you can see this huge commitment in every place, and the municipality of Szumowo in the Zambrowski district is probably the best example of the fact that local society became involved, having the support of the wójt, with the support of local government, district government. Practically in most localities, the rural hostels' circles work dynamically in the village. Hopefully more of that kind of action, more of that kind of person. What I have heard before also shows that the predecessors do not know very much the structure of the action and the issues that rural hostels are dealing with. Because it's not just meetings, it's also a spirit of entrepreneurship. Community-led local development (the bell) is being implemented to a large extent by rural hostels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u261	Thank you very much, sir. We're starting a series of questions. I am closing the list of Members who have signed up to ask questions. We begin with Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is a good thing that the bill introduces a permanent possibility to finance the rings of rural hostels, because this means that it will be possible to plan and implement this in the budget. Because there is no worse situation than when something moves in and there are doubts about the sources of funding during the year. I have questions. First of all, how many circles of housewives will not be able to use this money because they do not meet organisational requirements? What's the percentage compared to how many wheels are going to benefit from this? The second issue concerns grants. Each wheel may receive a grant once a year. I figured it was about $4,000. on one wheel, but it's such a squishy calculation. I wanted to ask you how much funding would be set. Will there be criteria? Will they? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rules? Tell me more about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u263	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is indeed a very important project specifically aimed at rural women, who are bringing together to work for local communities. Thanks to their activities, many very interesting projects are carried out, and the villages simply live. I have a question for the Minister that you did not answer at the committee meeting yesterday. Why did such an important social project enter the committee, and thus into the hands of Members, a few hours before the committee meeting was convened? May 20th, to be exact. In such a situation, how is the Member to prepare for the meeting and to examine the draft law in substance? To the fact that the government and the ministries do not respect the work of Members, we have already got used to it, but why do you not respect the environments to which these draft laws are addressed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u265	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u266	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as the circles of rural hostess are concerned, the reactivation of these wheels by granting them additional funds is not a kind of derogatory to these associations. This is not the embezzlement of these women, because each one of you, driving in the field or working in his district, sees that these organizations are developing perfectly because they can raise funds. There's one thing that bothers me and maybe it should change in the future. The point is that not every village in Poland has the same population. My family village Czaczyce has more than 200 inhabitants, while there are villages that have several thousand of them. So I have a question for you. Could we take up legislative work in the future to build a system that would allow, for example, in the villages of 2, 3 thousand. people register more than one wheel that will be able to use this money? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Left, Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have such a situation that the houses' and rural hosts' circles can be registered in three ways - in the ARimR, as associations - ordinary and registered - and in agricultural circles. The oldest wheels with the longest history, which started in agricultural circles, are excluded, cannot get aid or funding. I wanted to ask, how do you plan to put these three registers together and support the wheels on an equal footing? Anyone can register, they have to add... If the wheel was registered in agricultural circles, it cannot benefit from this aid. He must join the wheels registered in the AriMR. Even after the revision. Therefore, I have a question: How will we support wheels that exist and are registered in agricultural circles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u269	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems that the transfer of competences concerning rural hostels' circles from the Ministry of Development to the Ministry of Rural Development is a good, expected and very natural decision. After all, the circles of the country housewives always remind us of the village. The achievements of these wheels are important for these areas, for these environments. I would like to ask you about issues related to the settlement of grants. Since the arrival of these funds and their transfer to the rural hostess' circles, ladies have very often made their comments and requests to introduce training in the settlement of grants. They had a problem with it from the IT side. It was the same with the issue of preparing (the bell) for training related to the fulfilment of applications concerning the register. I have a question: do you expect such training? Are such trainings conducted and how long will they last? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u271	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u272	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by correcting it. In our country, by no means - some Members have said so - there are no 10,000. rural housewives' wheels, only 30,000. Rural hostels' wheels, of which 10,000. the wheels are registered in the ARIMR. Other wheels are registered by agricultural rings, as associations or as social organisations. I have a question for the Minister and I'll have a written reply. Whether the circles of rural housewives operating under separate regulations, i.e. the Law on associations, social, professional, agricultural organisations, also as non-membered, etc. can count on the funding of their statutory activities on the basis of a procedated law without listing on the national list conducted by ARiMR? If so, how will it be granted? Today's situation is completely abnormal and incompatible with the principle of equality before the law. We have 10,000. rural hostels who can apply for grants and 20 000. wheels, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't deserve a penny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u273	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice. Please. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One question: Who will be responsible for establishing the rules of procedure, criterion and amount of grants? Who's gonna be responsible for putting these documents together? Who will be responsible for enforcing this from the rural hostel circles? That's the first question. Are you sure this isn't going to be too formal? What about those wheels that a friend of mine just asked about that aren't registered yet? It's about those wheels that are created. Will they also have a level playing field if this financial support is obtained? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u275	Thank you. Mrs Monica Falej, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u276	High Izbo! The draft law contains financial provisions on the basis of which further aid may be allocated to the rings of rural hostess by grants which the rural development minister may grant to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture under the rules laid down in the public finance legislation for the implementation of financial assistance. At the same time, it was pointed out that, in order to implement this law, the President of the Council of Ministers may carry out a transfer of planned revenue and expenditure from the State budget by means of a regulation, while maintaining the use of public funds resulting from the Budget Act. I therefore have a question, Minister: Do you provide for the possibility of a transfer of funds to increase the envelope after 40 million have been spent on the activities of the rural hostel circles? I think the rural hostels from the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship would like to benefit from this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u277	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Thanking you for cultivating tradition, for having a great deal of involvement in the circles of rural hostels over the years, I would like to ask if it is possible for all these circles of rural hostess to benefit from the support they will receive. Because the most important thing in this environment is reliability, if we are to talk about cultivating tradition, about Polishness, about what is important for our culture. When we talk about training concerning, among other things. I ask: when will you prepare such a guide to make it easy for every circle of housewives to settle, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in order to assess whether the selection of projects under certain rules has been prepared in a very reliable manner? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u279	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A significant change in the Rural Houses' Circles Act is the transfer of competence in the case of assistance to rural housewives' Circles from the Minister responsible for regional development to the Minister responsible for rural development. Is the transfer of these competences to another department a consequence of the Minister responsible for rural development of rural development policy supporting rural areas, rural culture and folklore? Minister! What is the dynamic of the growth of the number of newly formed rural hostels' wheels in recent years? Do the emerging wheels, the new wheels of the rural hostess activate social and cultural life in these environments? And the last question is, do the measures granted to the rural housewives' circles have anything to do with political affiliation (the bell) because such suggestions were made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u282	High Izbo! The reactivation of the rural hostess' circles, Mr President, is not the merit of Law and Justice. The reactivation of rural hostels' wheels took place long before 2018. It is due to enormous social mobilisation, but also to the European Union, which has funded and valued rural regions through specific grants. But not for the circles of the country hostesses, Madame. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't discuss this, okay? Let me talk to you. Thank you. I would like to point out that the funding of rural lighthouses, the funding of various projects, local action groups are all indirect initiatives that also develop hostel circles. And I will stress once again what Mr Shopiński said. That's 10,000. the wheels are registered with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, does not mean that so many of them work. According to estimates carried out in 2014 by the Shipyard Foundation about 50% of the rural hostels' wheels were not registered anywhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question about the funding that you predict: How many wheels have received funding? Did they get all the wheels at the height they applied for? Where exactly can we find a report from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture on how to dispose of these funds? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two pluses for starters. It is a pity that you realized so late that the rural housewives' circles are the competences of the Ministry of Agriculture. But better late than never. Second thing. Annual funding? Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the ARimr, because there should be mainly proposals that concern farmers and agriculture. Today, ARiMR offers proposals for the modernisation of more than 2, 3 years. You have a better institution, ladies and gentlemen, which has already ceased to perform its role in Poland. It's about farm advisory centers. There are substantive workers there, who regularly take care of the circles of the country hostess. And that's what they're supposed to do. ARiMR should look at farmers' proposals, which are often for a long time today. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, every wheel in Poland should be able to start. With regard to the proposal, how it will be implemented, whether it is received or not, the criteria should be decided and not just one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a restriction on civil liberties, ladies and gentlemen. Your politicians forbid you to reach for that money. Your politicians. There are cases. They're forbidden to register.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u285	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! The rural hostess' circles are such a model, an example of a non-governmental organization of great tradition and accomplishment. I think it was a structure that imposed certain forms of social, cultural life, but also life alongside guards, folk sports teams, agricultural circles. It was a place where life in the village was formed, which preserved tradition and Polishness. I would also like to mention such an educational, training dimension. I remember organizing conversations, seminars, trainings. It was very important. In this light, I think, let us be very careful with this registration requirement, because it is often treated as a form of a certain political declaration. Therefore, open these (Bingle) possibilities for allocating funds to all wheels, regardless of the structure they participate in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u287	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u288	Mrs. Marshal! The Circles of the village hostess are the salt of the earth. They are literally the salt of the earth because they really contribute to the huge development of the village. Very good that there is funding for them and it will be available in a system, but the questions remain. Namely, will all circles of country housewives, no matter where they are registered, have access to this money? That's the first question. If it's 10,000. The wheels are registered in the AriMR, that's 20,000. wheels that are not, should also have the right to receive funds. Second question: What are the criteria for granting this money? There are very serious concerns, because we already know experience from other areas, about the fact that sometimes political criteria prevail instead of substantive criteria. So will there be any transparent procedures? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, what is it? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the country hostel circles. We can't say in this room that the wheels are divided. The wheels really work very hard for the development of their homeland, traditions, folklore, future for grandchildren, for children. Let's not share these women. They're really great, they're really using these resources. As an agency employee and later as a director, I never met with any wheel that applied to the agency to be treated in a bad way. I think the Minister will confirm that there have been no complaints about the agency's activities in respect of any discrimination. I wanted to introduce one municipality from my county, the district of Lubaczowski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On 21 villages - 21 circles of country housewives. 12 circles of rural hostels in the municipality of Przeworsk... Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u291	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u292	Thank you, Marshal. I have no doubt about the purpose of the law on the circles of rural hostesses. It has a simple task: to remove the KGW from the agricultural circles, a traditional organisation from which the wheels originate. Very, very many years ago, when it was created, when there was no mention of NGOs at all, they were already there. Today, the rural housewives' circles by law are to be subordinated to the government. You can see that after many so-called. invitations without the possibility of rejection at ceremonies organised by the Government or by Members of Law and Justice. That's where the members of the wheels always have to show up. Such suggestions are addressed to the wojte. On the other hand, today on this occasion I would like to thank all ladies and gentlemen on behalf of the Polish People's Party, because they are also in the circles of the country hostess. The occasion is very beautiful, on Sunday is a traditional folk holiday. This is our joint holiday, all organizations associated with the Polish countryside, Polish agriculture, Polish agriculture [[♪ The bell ♪]] culture and tradition. I wish all members of the wheels the best wishes on this occasion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u293	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor and answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Anna Gembicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u294	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, many questions have been raised about the granting of this aid. In this respect, as in previous years, this will be set out in the regulation of the competent minister. There is absolutely no question of any distribution of these resources by means of political criteria. The mechanism is very simple: if the wheel is registered with the Agency, it shall apply to receive financial assistance and, if it meets certain conditions, it shall receive that financial assistance, according to size. Really, ladies and gentlemen, there are some appeals to us not to be politically distributed or, on the other hand, the accusation that this has been so distributed so far is completely unreasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to familiarize yourself with the regulations, such as those of previous years, which clearly show clear and objective criteria. So really, this charge is completely off-limits. With regard to the possibility of submitting electronic applications, it will also be optional, i.e. as has been the case so far, it will be possible to submit these applications on a stationary basis. Someone asked why the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture was involved, not agricultural advisory centers. Because the offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture are in every district, these are institutions very well known to farmers. That decision was therefore made. It's been working since 2018 and it's working. In each district office there is a representative for the circles of rural hostess, this person deals with support for the wheels, whether in fulfilling the application for registration or in fulfilling the application for financial assistance. So we really think that how it works so far, which is paying through the agency, it just works. As far as the next issues are concerned, I would like to stress... Because you talk a lot about the history of hostel circles, about how they weren't created in 2018. Yes, rural hostels have been operating for many years, some have more than a hundred years of tradition, only that it was only us in 2018 who could appreciate it, because earlier unfortunately there was no systemic government support for rural hostess circles, ba, the wheels functioned, just like the state You said, at the farm wheels, they didn't have legal personality, they couldn't apply for money themselves. We changed that. And I understand that success has many fathers, because here the Left claims it was her idea. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there was a Left in the Sejm in 2018, so it seems to me that the assignment of this project is at least inappropriate. It was we who reminded us of the merits of the rural hostels' circles for the rural area. And I am very happy - because you say that often local governments support - great, I am very happy, I would like this support to be even greater, because unfortunately it is very often in local governments that this politicisation occurs. I will give an example of the district of Lipnowski from my district, where unfortunately the circles of rural hostesses that registered were given a clear message that they would be treated differently. Minister... Marshal, the Minister is an official... Indeed, that is unfortunately so, Commissioner, and I am very sorry that this is how it works. As far as the next issues are concerned. You're saying it's an election-related issue. There's no election this year, and there's no election next year. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you're a little inconsistent here in what you're saying. Another question - yet with regard to the criteria. The criteria are clear, depending on the size of the wheel. There are three thresholds: up to 30 people, up to 75 people and above. There is no discretion here, there is no question of any political distribution of funds, once again. It must be acknowledged that since 2018 we have been dealing with a kind of renaissance of rural hostess circles, because apart from organisations with long-standing traditions that have existed for tens or even more than 100 years, many new organizations have formed and registered. I think this is the greatest value of these solutions. And, on the occasion, I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen in the circles of the country housewives for their commitment, for their work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the benefit of the local community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Then why did this project come so late?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 03 hours 14 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health on an urgent government bill amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws (prints Nos 1202 and 1208). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health, I would like to present a report on the urgent draft government law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. This report is included in print No 1208. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 123 of the Constitution referred this draft to the so-called. urgent consideration. This urgency is simply due to certain issues which have arisen as a result of the COVID laws, where certain arrangements regarding the remuneration of workers employed in medicinal entities will end their course, which will be on 30 June. There is therefore a need to regulate this legislation so that the law can enter into force on 1 July. During the committee's work there was a huge discussion on this subject, various types of amendments were tabled. Let me just remind you that in Poland, since the transition to the insurance system, we have been on the free market for something called wage setting. I see a Minister Maximovich here who remembers an anesthesiologist strike. At that time, there were first indications that we were not dealing very well with the pay system of health care workers, because it was assigned to occupational wage systems. We have not managed to create over-the-counter, nor have we managed to get the budget involved. There are three types of solutions in the European Union. The first are laws which legally order such, not other pay in health care. This mainly applies to those countries that have health budgetary systems, e.g. United Kingdom, part of Scandinavia, Spain. The second is such over-the-counter collective agreements. This applies to hospitals, clinics, etc. Germany, for example, is an example. And there are mixed examples. For a good cause since 2017, we have entered such a mixed system: a collective wage agreement plus statutory wage regulation. As for the course of the discussion, it concerned not so much the provisions of the law itself as the annex, which is the most interesting and aroused the most controversy in terms of coefficients. It's about the work factor annex. I must say that the government here assumed that this correction factor would be the basis, and this basis is the basic average remuneration applicable in the Polish economy and announced annually by the Social Security Office. Therefore, this law has such records that it will be revalorised every year. Ten amendments were tabled during the discussion. Six or seven of them concerned only this annex. After a heated discussion, the Commission did not accept these amendments and, at the same time, sent a large majority of its votes as a report to the Health Committee for further work. I just wanted to add that this solution, which was adopted by the High House in 2017, i.e. a law that talks about how some of the workers employed in medicinal entities are remunerated, is the basis and will probably be developed. The provisions proposed by this amendment will allow the basis, i.e. the basic average remuneration, to be re-valorised annually and at the same time to be attached. What are the costs of this bill? From 1 July to the end of this year it is PLN 3700 million - maybe a little less. Next year is almost PLN 8 billion. In 2023 it is more than PLN 10 billion and in 2024 it is of course an amount above 13.5 almost PLN 14 billion. Probably these amounts will be revalorised, because probably the average basic salary in Poland will increase. I ask the High House to accept the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u297	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u298	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my club's position regarding an urgent government bill amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some of the workers employed in medicinal entities and some of the other laws contained in print No 1202. This project amends a good mother law, which first introduced good systemic solutions to the lowest remuneration of staff employed in medicinal entities in June 2017. Dear Minister, Thank you very much that during this difficult time of fight against the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, the resort has prepared this environmental project that will allow all groups of professional workers working in medicinal entities to be raised by the minimum wage from July this year. I am very pleased that the government adds this project, which raises minimum salaries for all professional groups, to the thanks that I also again join. I am convinced that this project can only be implemented because the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the Government of Law and Justice, systematically raises expenditure on healthcare. As we remember, in the 2021 budget, this increase is over PLN 12 billion compared to the 2020 budget. As a result, funds have been available to provide funding for this project for wage increases. This is a direct referral to the staff of medical entities, which will only this year amount to PLN 3621 million, and in 2022 - without a small amount of PLN 8 billion. The amounts I'm talking about, I'm sure... These amounts will certainly increase their wages. What is very important, High Izbo, the increase in these salaries along with the derivatives will be compensated by the government to medical entities, and thus will not increase the cost of operating these entities. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this project and will vote in favour of it. I personally believe that the entire House will support this very good project for several important reasons. First of all, it accelerates wage growth by six months and - what is important - these proposals are in line with the position of the Tripartite Health Protection Team expressed on 17 March. Second, the proposed amendments assume an increase in labour rates without exceptions for all professional groups listed in the Annex to the Act of 8 June 2017 on the manner in which the lowest basic salary is determined. And yes, for example, what growth is projected... As the projected minimum remuneration will increase by adopting the survey data obtained by the Ministry of Health in 2020, this is the data from March 2020. If we adopt the labour indicators set out in this project, the total gross remuneration, i.e. the basic salary and allowances derived from the basic salary and, if applicable, on-call payments, with the proportion proposed in this project, will be presented as follows. For example, a doctor or dentist with a second degree of specialization, looking at these indicators and taking the survey data, will have a minimum salary of PLN 13 006. Doctor with the first degree of specialization - 9916 zł. When it comes to, for example, o mr. nurses with a professional title and mr. midwives with a professional degree, this will be over PLN 8340. Let me remind you that today this average wage is 6.5,000. zł. There is no professional group whose increase in this minimum wage would not apply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are groups where this increase is estimated to be 97 to 100%. Mr President, finish up. In addition, the project accelerates by half a year the requirement for all medicinal products to achieve a legally guaranteed level of remuneration, so not since 2022, but since July of this year. I think it's worth noting that the project contains a mechanism to ensure that no one has a reduced salary - we're talking about nurses, midwives, paramedics... Thank you very much, sir. Mr... In view of the above, your esteemed marshal, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this very good project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u299	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. Wielichowska. I'm sorry, I had Mr Wojciechowska. Mrs Wielichowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When every year about 7.5 thousand are lost from the system. Nurses and midwives, when the average age of nurses is 50, 60 years old and constantly growing, when the generational lack of surrogacy is clearly seen, when health care is finally on the verge of being able to fight a pandemic, and medical and non-medical workers at the limit of stamina, the Minister of Health is pretending to be in dialogue with the environment, and frightened by the announcement of a warning strike at night throws a messy project, which is followed by an express, without consultation, on the next day. It's a scandal and disregard for the medical environment and disrespect for it. We didn't have time to properly consult the project with the environment, with you, with the medical authorities, but we prepared for the project important amendments for you, expected changes in the remuneration rates. Power's probably gonna throw them in the trash. If that happens, we will prepare an amendment to this bill. The Civic Coalition will fight for decent pay for doctors, as will the COVID-we allowances and additional salary for non-medical personnel. Today, in this Chamber, there must be no lack of public voice, which bitterly speaks about the project and dialogue. The National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics negatively evaluates the proposal of the Minister of Health, because it is discriminatory, harmful and does not take into account the importance of the profession of responsibility, experience and knowledge that nurses and midwives have. The President of the Union points out that the Minister of Health boasted of dialogue, but this dialogue was shamed and the conclusions rejected. The opinion of the union fully agrees and is solidarised by the General Medical Council, which calls for a renewed dialogue which, as the President of the Council says, is poor. He also says that the government's proposal is not even another cheek, but an inscription in the words: "Let them go, but spoken in a different form. And they will go where better health funding, where better wages and more respect for the dignity of their work. The President of the General Council of Nurses and Obstetrics also bitterly speaks about the project, appealing for a fair dialogue. The president said 100,000. nurses according to the provisions of this law, allegedly improved, supposedly perfect, are still depreciated because they were covered by an indicator of 0,73, which is the lowest. She pointed out that in total there were 260 thousand in Poland. working nurses and midwives, of which 160 thousand. These are nurses over the age of 55. If they don't make better money, they'll quit their jobs. The National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics paid attention to the need for new diagnostics, as college recruitment is decreasing, and medical analysts in part do not go to work. It also pointed to faulty changes in the grid itself in terms of the classification of diagnostics. Diaphragms were found there with undiagnosed, which is a complete confusion of this grid. In the system we are transparent - says the Chief Pharmacy Council, paying attention to the lack of dialogue, pointing to the monologue. It points out that since 2017, although it submits its claims, the Ministry of Health has not shown any interest in this professional group. This is the full picture of the pay in the health care system and the ongoing debate of the Ministry with medical professionals. The Minister of Health has set minimum wages against nurses and the disapproval of doctors. This isn't the kind of finale the doctors have been waiting for. That's why the proposal is for amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u301	Thank you. You continue with Krystyna Skowrońska on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u302	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If we ask ourselves a question after this introduction by Mrs Monica Wielichowska, what do we have in life most precious? What do we have in life most precious? Here's to us. To our children, our families, our children. Besides, there is no money that should not be used to protect health in this particular situation. And let's not go through what nurses and midwives make because foresters and Orlena make more, really more. The government doesn't have its money. That's what we're making up for ourselves, and it should depend on us. To protect our health we should spend money meaningfully, wisely, without antagonizing groups. It's about doctors, nurses, midwives, pharmacists, diagnostics, all the social groups, all the groups that provide us with these benefits, and it's about us sharing the money well. We have tabled amendments that are in the interest of all social groups. After all, doctors were promised another indicator at the strike of residents in 2018, and nurses were promised other money. The ministers have changed, but we should keep it. Whatever project came to Parliament, it is Parliament's property and we should improve it. Not only to thank and not just to applaud when they are needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Every day, because every day they fight for our lives and our health. There's more oncology. After all, these professional groups will have to work more in a different capacity even when the COVID ends. We make amendments that change, correct this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u303	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Left Club, Mrs Marcelin Zawisza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u304	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Coronavirus pandemic is underway. After more than a year this is not shocking information, but sometimes the Ministry of Health really behaves as if it did not notice it. It's as if she doesn't notice that health workers and health workers are risking their lives and health, their loved ones' lives and health to save the inhabitants and residents of our country. For this heroism, for hard work in the most difficult times, the government should provide them with decent pay, decent working conditions and treat them with respect. Health care is not a priority for the government, because if it were, it would make sense to increase spending to 7%. We wouldn't have to wait six years for GDP. It's very dead, especially since everyone knows there are even more difficult times going on. In four years, 280 hospitals will cease to exist, not because one or another authority will introduce one or another reform, but because nurses and nurses are increasingly lacking. He's just not gonna have anyone to take care of his patients. There are now 70,000 in the system. nurses aged 60+ and 80,000 nurses at the age of 50.59. These nurses are about to retire. The situation is similar for other medical professions. People go to college, but after college, either they don't take jobs or they leave. However, instead of dialogue with nurses, physiotherapists or diagnostics, the Ministry leads a monologue to show respect for hard work. This was discussed by representatives of many medical professions at the Health Committee meeting. They also said that in order to encourage work in medical professions, the government must begin to pay well. Increases or minimum wages cannot be at a level that makes it difficult to maintain. Workers should be rewarded according to qualifications and experience and not only on the basis of qualifications needed in a specific position. If they are not treated with due respect, then either more medical graduates will not be employed or will work outside our country. The government will therefore fund health care in the UK, the Czech Republic and Norway. This is a bold move, given that Polish health care is so poor, that during the pandemic in Poland more than 100,000 were registered. excessive deaths. As I understand it, you don't care that your policy can lead to more deaths. It's really embarrassing. During the pandemic, shortly after the third wave, the government is conducting talks with representatives of the medical professions, that further groups inform about planned protests and strikes. If the government strikes the nurses, we'll settle you for any difficulty in accessing health care, because it's your government, the ministry, the guilt that, instead of appreciating the job, you're treating such an important medical profession from a shoe. The Ministry did not listen to what the unions said, and in such an important and expected project by the whole environment, alongside the too low level of proposed minimum earnings and in addition to inadequate qualifications in the table, there are many absurd entries. What should be improved? This law perpetuates a criminal, indeed criminal thing: it discourages the uplifting of qualifications and does not appreciate the experience and education that medical professionals have. On behalf of the Left Club, I am making an amendment to correct this. I hope that you will ensure that you appreciate the experience of medical professionals instead of offering them an inadequate remuneration. You really can't treat health workers like all the other workers. They, having a higher education, have more experience, are able to perform their profession much better. They should be properly rewarded. It can't be that a nurse with many years of experience has the same earnings as a nurse who's just running for office. If you pursue your employment policy like this, don't be surprised that more people will just leave the country. The same applies to all other medical professions. I've talked to diagnostics and diagnostics who say that they're constantly improving their qualifications so that they can better help all those who simply expect this help. Your proposal shows that you underestimate their work, that you underestimate their experience, that you underestimate their sacrifice, because they gain these qualifications after hours of their work. This bill is very important for many medical professions, many workers and employees just waiting for it. Show Respect to Those Who [[♪ The bell ♪]] For all of us, they put life and health at risk, and instead of applause, just meet their demands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u306	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Noble health, no one will know how you taste until you break down. If Kochanowski wrote this poem today, he'd probably put a doctor, a nurse, a diagnosis, a pharmacist, a roomkeeper, a lady in the room. Today they must be treated noblely, also in this bill, because we see what happens when they are missing and the pandemic has exposed the crisis of medical staff in Poland. I believe that this law should respond to the crisis of medical personnel at least in this financial dimension, because we know that inadequate funding and remuneration of medical professions are taking revenge on us, on our health, on patients, on the whole health system. Either people don't take this profession, or they leave it, they give it up, sometimes they emigrate. Today, the PiS had a chance to respond to this crisis of medical personnel. The opinions of all industries, the professions leave no illusion. I agree with President Krystyna Bird that the power of the PiS instead of appreciating the medical environment after the pandemic only shared it. The nurses themselves, chamber nurses, midwives, like gentlemen - they have not been appreciated because of their education, experience, responsibility of work and all these requirements that they have different, because in different places they work, different jobs they take. That should be taken into account. We as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party notice this and support it. Work on this law has shown how you try to marginalize your opinion and the role of the medical community. Working on this bill is another proof that authority does not count on the opinion of the medical chambers or individual doctors. I believe that, by proceeding with this bill, the government has treated the medical competition from the shoe, that's a bad way to put it. I remember there used to be applause, and today, what is it? Turn around and show your back instead of joining a joint conversation and listening to the demands of individual professional groups. If we look at the opinions of the representatives of the various professions, medical, nursing, pharmaceutical, laboratory diagnostics, we see that they are all critical. And if this bill is to be a thank-you for working in a pandemic, it's a really lousy thank-you. I remember how the labs, who in their workplace are dealing with a de facto coronavirus because they're investigating patients with a coronavirus, fighting for it, had to make sure their lab was certified to get any supplement. The same thing happened to pharmacists. At least for months they fought for it because they wanted to get more involved in their work and be more appreciated, use their skills. This worked out, but all this was forceful, under pressure, under pressure, under public opinion, as well as industry organisations, as well as opposition, which at the time fought bravely to take their vote into account. Therefore, my club, the coalition club of Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, has prepared two amendments. The first includes a new annex on labour coefficients in line with our programme requests - 30% raises in relation to what is today. The second systemic amendment - the working rate has been increased by 0.2 annually since 2022. I'm putting these corrections in your hands, Marshal. And to all medical professions, I wish you a lot of perseverance and satisfaction from your work, and I bow low for what you do every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u307	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Confederation, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u308	Briefly. I don't like this bill because I don't want it to be. The nurses made more money just because once again I think it's a bad idea to regulate everything at central level through laws. It's the hospital that makes the deal, it's the hospital that takes the costs, it's the hospital's job to decide how much it can afford by negotiating with its employees. What you are trying to do here once again shows that we are moving towards just communism, in which all the elements of our lives are regulated in Warsaw, at the central level, by laws, the Sejm decides how much a doctor should earn, how much a baker, how much a shoemaker, how much a bread should cost, how much a roll. We've been through this before, and you know how it ended. We're going in a similar direction. Of course, life is complicated and we are not able to predict everything in the laws. We know that money is always missing. If we pull this duvet in one direction, we're gonna get our legs sticking out somewhere else. In a minute, someone else will come and say it's missing for this, and now give me more money. Of course, this is a traditional program of populist opposition: more money for everything. But when the government takes a show like this, it's really bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u309	Thank you. On behalf of Poland 2050, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u310	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Throughout the fight against the pandemic, government representatives have rightly raised vaginas in honor of health professionals. It is not surprising that Polish nurses and midwives, medical rescuers and doctors employed as part of their employment relationship after a year of sacrificial fight against the pandemic expected to receive a clear increase in the amount of money required for legal reasons. Especially since the former Minister of Health Prof. Szumowski made such declarations already in 2018. We understand well that, in view of the large number, hundreds of thousands of employees, the budgetary expenditure on such regulations is considerable. But can we ignore the position of representatives of these circles? At yesterday's joint meeting of the Commission: Health and Public Finance, the majority of the pro-government's right to a public hearing was denied. Has it been difficult to predict when shaping the budget for 2021 that it will be necessary to guarantee adequate resources, in view of the earlier words of the previous Minister of Government, the universal acceptance of the public, and even the expectation that health professionals who have fought so sacrificially and riskily against the pandemic should be acknowledged not only on an ad hoc basis, but also by granting them the right to decent wages against other professions? Wasn't that the duty of another current minister who took over in August 2020 to apply for appropriate provisions in the next year's budget bill? Shouldn't the Minister, a certified economist, act in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, predicting such consequences? He knew this office. He was the principal there for years. The army's done their job, there's no reason to raise the pay. But we think there's a reason. The Pandemic isn't over yet. In the interests of the workers, but also of the Polish state, there is a purpose. On behalf of this interest, I urge the present government to reflect seriously, such a simple human reflection. Poland 2050 presented yesterday the most extensive amendment aimed at raising the salaries of nurses, midwives, doctors, paramedics, physiotherapists and budgetly employed hospital pharmacists. She was bravely rejected by the votes... Minister, they weren't, they weren't, they weren't just yours. But let's not discuss... It was courageously rejected by the pro-government majority, whatever it was. And I have this rhetorical question: Is it really pro-government? Does the government really underestimate the work of hundreds of thousands of health workers? Does it really provoke the ready strike nurses? I'm trying to get some sense into you. Poland 2050 has tabled an amendment once again. I urge all of us to consider her party together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u311	Thank you. We're going to ask questions. First, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about extra money, extra funding for people doing jobs other than medical jobs. They report to our Members' Offices for people on the front line when it comes to Coronavirus when it comes to COVID troops. These are persons engaged in cleaning professions, laboratory staff and analytical technicians. After the last conference of the Minister of Health, which announced a programme of support for these people, my question is: Can these people who are on the front line but who are not engaged in medical professions also hope to increase their benefits? Can they count on additional money, and does the new law provide for such solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u313	Thank you. I am closing the list of Members who have signed up to ask questions. As another Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Please. I was still there. Excuse me, sir. Yes, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! The case is extremely serious, because this is the moment when we can say, "I'm checking." We have party fireworks, we have conferences, we have Polish Load, we have New Deal, we have a conference in Chełma today, and here we have concrete. We say, "I'm checking." How do you treat medical workers, and in particular how do you treat Polish nurses and Polish midwives? If we look at the table that is an annex to this project, if we see what is the working factor set for 158,000. Nurses and midwives, that's a factor of 0.73%. 0.73% an average wage. What does that mean? This means that a large group of nurses and midwives will have a basic salary of PLN 3893. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a situation where we say we're investing in medical competitions, you show that it's quite different. We are making amendments that will lead to the fact that these salaries will finally be worthwhile. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u315	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. A round of applause for Mr Honourable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday at the committee meeting, I asked you about this and unfortunately I didn't get an answer, so I'm going to ask you again: Is there money in the National Health Fund for these increases? Because we remember how the government in the bill declared increases for teachers, and then didn't spend money on it. In the impact assessment of the regulation we are only included that this money will be secured by the National Health Fund, but I do not know if the budget of the National Health Fund has been prepared for this in any way. I would like to hear exactly what kind of stream of money will go to network hospitals and all the other facilities that will cover these increases? That's one question. Second: Why, despite the declaration, you still do not devote more to health and why all the additional health measures you have transferred in time to the next [[♪ The bell ♪]] are you planning to increase GDP to health in 2023 and 2027? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u317	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u318	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you about the training of medical personnel, because not only pay is a very important element of the proper functioning of the health system, but also the amount of this staff. I would like to ask you: How has Law and Justice been implementing the policy of increasing the number of medical personnel in the health system since 5.5 years? What is the education of nurses and midwives today? What is doctor training like? How many universities today do they have to train both staff and staff? I also wanted to get some information on the nurse's salary. The opposition, especially here the Civic Platform with PSL, 8 years of power, had a chance to raise wages and therefore I wanted to ask: What it looked like then. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the issue of raising wages, and how has law and justice raised salaries for medical staff over the last five years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u319	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u320	Mrs Zembala, my previous speaker, should remember at least the recent increases given by Minister Zembala. PLN 1100. I'd like to say this... But every year for four years. We applied for a public hearing, and the PiS state rejected it. We've tabled amendments, we've tabled amendments at the committee meeting and today we're raising the rate by 0.3%. The one farthest for doctors, nurses, diagnostics, labs, for all groups. My question to the Minister and in writing I also expect an answer: When will the money be paid for the raises? When are we gonna change the National Health Fund plan? Because it's from our money, you don't give. We pay ourselves. When will there be new contracts for hospitals so that they don't owe each other? When will there be a new valuation of the benefits that so many environments are asking for? We have had opinions on several occasions at the Health Committee meetings and [[♪ The bell ♪]] We ask: the valuation of benefits, because a network of hospitals is a huge state failure, where health care institutions are in debt. Thank you very much, Member. A thank-you to health workers for their work during the pandemic period. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u321	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment prepared by the Ministry amending the rules for the remuneration of nurses and midwives is not in line with government policy. He ignores the state of Polish nursing and obstetrics, and in a short time will lead to the destruction of our professions - he writes in the position handed down yesterday by the Polish Association of Nurses and Obstetrics. In this position, he wrote: during the work in the Sejm on this bad bill, every parliamentarian who supports its voice in the wording submitted to the Sejm will contribute to the deterioration of the state of Polish nursing and obstetrics and will speed up the collapse of these basic professions of the Polish health system. I have a question for the government because we received a similar opinion from the National Medical Association. Did the authorities take note of this position? Did she listen to these demands? Does authority respect only the demands of nurses, midwives and doctors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When our lives are at stake, does he want to talk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u323	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't know if you're familiar with that saying, "Who gives and receives, he gets in hell." I'm saying this in the context of the embalming supplement that was given to nurses, paramedics, resident doctors. Minister, I ask you to answer whether these allowances will be taken from these groups after 1 July. Second thing. In Poland there are nurses after medical schools, after two or three years of post-secondary nursing studies. There are those who have bachelors, those who have a master's degree. Finally, there are those who have done two more years of specializations completed with the State exam. Ladies and gentlemen, an example. There's a nurse who's 55 years old, and she's not gonna do any more of those additional studies, she's a good specialist, she's finished a lot of courses. Ladies and gentlemen, she will now be classified into the lowest group according to your proposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Fall back. Wide consultation, let's talk to the nurses, because after that time, the COVIDs don't deserve what you're trying to give them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medical entities and some other laws raises huge opposition to the medical environment, including the environment of nurses, nurses, midwives or paramedics. And I have a question: Does the government think that we have enough nurses and nurses in our country not to follow their demands and enter into a collective dispute that will end in a warning strike, and if the government continues to be stubborn - a general strike? Aren't you so afraid of supposing the health of Poles and Poles? And I thank the workers and health workers for your efforts. I bow to your work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u328	The salaries of medical workers are scandalously low and therefore funding is necessary, especially now, in times of pandemic. In particular, however, it is appalling that, when it comes to the draft law, why nurses and local women continue to be treated in a way, I would say unworthy. They do not take into account their work, hard work and experience, which is precisely what they say. the fact that there is a difference between nurses and 30-year-olds compared to nurses who are now in the profession. And I would like to ask, what is it like, Minister? Why should a nurse with 30 years of internship earn as much as a secretary? I don't take anything from the secretaries, but it's known that the responsibility of nurses is much greater. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like a written reply as to whether any changes in this matter are anticipated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u329	Thank you, Member. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, there are few countries in the world that have satisfactorily addressed health problems in the public perception. An example of this is the United States or a significant part of Europe's countries within the European Union. Of course, the main problem lies in the area of staff, people, employment, which is again linked to various factors, but remuneration is on the front line. On the one hand, remuneration is a budget, a country that we safeguard, and on the other hand the distribution of these funds, such as the various social groups, are rewarded by the various professional groups. And here, of course, it must be left in some way to decide whether or not to be guided by experts' opinions. I think there is a problem of some justice among all those working (the bell) so that there are no such big differences, otherwise we will have a problem that the age of our nurses will be increasing and there will be a problem in general with maintaining the continuity of health care.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u331	Thank you very much, sir. The questions were not heard, sir, rather a statement, and that is in a moment. And I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice politicians very often emphasize in their media performances that their policies are better than in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, I will ask simple questions: Why is this better European policy not seen in this law, in these factors? If we want young doctors after specialization or other medical professions not to go to other countries that pay better, then let's do it in our legislation. When are you going to raise our doctors' rates to the level of doctors in other European countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u333	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor and answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u334	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Thank you so much for the questions. Thank you for the many warm words that were there. Thank you for your comments. I wanted to answer the questions that were there. Some of the groups said that this bill was detrimental to health workers. I completely disagree with that. In fact, many words have been uttered here, which were not true. Why is it beneficial? Because it raises the lowest wages for all workers and there is no professional group that would be left out. Therefore, it is a law that goes very far ahead for workers - that is what this is all about in the first place. The second point is that this law accelerates the entry into force of the final indicators by six months. As a result, from 1 July each employee will have to receive this salary, not as it has been: only a 20% difference compared to the lowest salary. I wanted to say a third thing, of course. This was highlighted very strongly by the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, who stressed that hospital directors were declaring employment contracts, reducing salaries, setting the end of their current salary by 30 June. The nurses feared that they might possibly have a reduced salary to the level of the lowest salary that is currently in force and which is to be increased if the honourable Members agree. Therefore, if this bill doesn't exist, then of course all the things that the nursing home was paying attention to... If you oppose, including these raises, there will be no raises. There will be reductions at the same time. Of course, there was a lot of talk about the government's not trying properly. But what's it been like over the last few years? Only from 2017 is the law on the lowest remuneration. The Lowest Compensation Act for Health Professionals - this level is significantly higher than for other workers in terms of the lowest remuneration. Let us say that from 2008 to 2015, there was no increase for health workers. Only one month before the election was the agreement signed by Minister Zembala, but of course no funds were paid. Therefore, all the additional things, all the increases that have been in recent years, are purely a matter of the United Right Government. So that's the truth. Here we've raised the salary, because now most nurses are going to have this not to the ratio of 0.73, but 0.81 or 1.06. because what has just been changed for 4 years has not been changed: that nurses with an education, with a bachelor will also be able to receive a higher salary. Of course, the question is: Will this remuneration be paid? What's it like? The additional funds from the National Health Fund will be paid to healthcare providers in a separate tranche to secure this loss so that hospital directors do not suffer under this law. Of course, there was a question - words from the Confederation - about not having a law on the lowest remuneration at all, so that there would not be such a law. This is not possible, because we see in fact that if there is no law on the lowest remuneration, then the directors of medical entities, in this case... If we are considering a law on minimum remuneration in general in the economy, it is a very important law for very many workers who only get the lowest salary thanks to it. So that the government of the United Right, signing up for the 6% bill... Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł... This is the first law that guarantees an increase in wages (The Bell), an increase in the resources allocated to the health system. It's because of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u335	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. For the third reading of the project... I'm sorry. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 May this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of you and your fellow Members wish to join us in making a statement, please. Me. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 01 hours 15 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Club Coalition Polska, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u336	How many minutes? Three minutes? I'm sorry. Yeah, three minutes. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The merger process, the concentration of capital It's a universal process. This increases market power and increases investment opportunities. We see a number of such examples in the world, in Europe and in Poland. And I would like to move on to the question of the combination of Lotus and Orlen or the connection of Lotus to Orlen, because this is an extremely complex and very debatable problem. Of course, it's just absorbed, but that's not the point anymore. Both companies are from the same or similar area. There would seem to be some kind of logic here: a strong entity that will be important not only in the domestic market but also in Europe, etc., but both companies are within the reach of decision, management, influence from the State Treasury. Of course, the process is subject to a certain assessment of whether the principle of competitiveness has been infringed. The Polish Office for Competition and Consumer Protection was positive - we know. The European Commission, which attaches great importance to the assessment of competitiveness, equal opportunities, etc., has provided such conditions for a merger that it actually destroys Lotus. What Orlen would take is the remnants of Lotus. This is not an interest for the country, because we would have to sell a very large part of the Lotus network, also part of the processing process, and yet Orlen would have to build some investments, make them for Lotus and Lotus to get rid of it in the open market, for external competition. Mrs. Marshal! This is not the Polish interest of the Polish economy. I think there's a request for this subject to be taken seriously by analysts, because it doesn't serve our strategy, it actually leads to... Especially since both companies are affected by the state. If we want to do joint projects, joint investments, and yet they can carry out... They can compete under very healthy conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to talk about it because it requires... Thank you very much, sir. ...in-depth analysis and really, Marshal, that's something to think about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u337	I would like to ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u338	The term of office of the current ombudsman is inevitably coming to an end. Adam Bodnar - the last independent public body to uphold the rule of law, guaranteeing, in accordance with the Constitution, full respect for civil rights and freedoms, an irrevocable end to its mission. On behalf of millions of women and men who are close to constitutional values and human rights, as well as thousands on behalf of whom the Ombudsman has acted, I thank you for everything that he has done and does for us, in particular I would like to thank Prof. Bodnar for everything he does for women's rights, especially for his vote on the Draconian decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska, which exposed the Polish people to repression, torture and inhuman treatment. At the same time, I must express my great concern about whether someone and possibly who will replace Bodnar and assume the role of spokesperson. There is much evidence that another spokesman, if appointed at all, will significantly lower the standards of office. That is true, Professor Bodnar has set the bar very high and any successor or successor will be very difficult to meet the challenges. All that remains is to express the hope that the new spokesperson will want to match his predecessor in order to ensure that civil rights and freedoms are fully respected in Poland. That's what people expect. Human rights are increasingly being violated by the current authority, and no public institution, as a result of the devastation of the rule of law by the PiS, gives no guarantee of compliance with them. And a last-minute remark. Today, for the last time in his term of office, the Ombudsman presented information on the state of compliance with civil rights and freedoms. He got five minutes for it, and at the end of the marshal Witek turned off his mic. It is not acceptable for PiS party officers who perform the highest functions in the state to have rights and freedoms for nothing... Mrs... ...and they wouldn't listen to a spokesperson defending people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u339	Madam, if you'll excuse me. PiS officers. Madam, the words that have been made here, about some alleged Constitutional Court of Mrs Julia Przyłębska... Alleged tribunal. Would you like to hear that this is an alleged temporary Ombudsman or an opposition spokesperson rather than civil rights? These are the people who preferred the Communists. Please, ma'am. If you require respect, please show respect to others as well. The institutions legally operating in Poland are protected and nobody is to be talked about in this way. And Mr Bodnar must follow the rules of procedure like anyone in this House. We have regulations that allow you to listen to your spokesperson for five minutes. He had the opportunity, he had even more time, before and after. So I'm asking you, ma'am, not to treat this as something extraordinary. Mrs. Marshal, you spoke recently about freedom of speech. Well, that's it. I have the right to do so, and what's more, I have the right to judge... I, too, Member, because, apart from being a marshal, I also have a parliamentary mandate. Thank you very much, Member. I'm waiting for a time when I can actually talk about the Constitutional Court without shame and embarrassment. Yeah, to the communes. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Walej from the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago we celebrated International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. June is among others. international month of pride of LGBT people. According to the latest report ILGAR Poland is the most homophobic country of the European Union, one of the worst in Europe, the second year in a row. Our law does not protect our own citizens and citizens. This also indicates a worrying report by the Ombudsman. Polish institutions do not seem to notice parts of Poles and Poles. The president's homophobic statements that it is not people, it is ideology, the CSO, which in the census forces LGBT individuals to give false data concerning the sex of transgender and non-binary persons and the marital status of people living in same-sex relationships - these examples could be multiplied here. I appeal to the state, local government, institutions and offices for respect for the dignity and rights of all citizens and citizens of Poland, regardless of gender, sexual orientation or any other condition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u341	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u342	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the United Right and the local government for their cooperation in building Proszowice Hospital for the reconstruction of the hospital's finances. Today's parliamentary debate is something that should be a turning point, because work for the Proszowice County, for Proszowice Hospital is an example of work beyond divisions, work where parliamentarians can normally cooperate with the local government and do not build divisions in the High House. I talked about this during my previous speeches, because these relationships that we build with local governments are not partisan. These are relationships where self-government is respected, and we as parliamentarians see the needs of self-governments. Let me remind you, for example, the Justice Fund - 200,000. To fight the COVID. Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro said that the Justice Fund must also help hospitals and those 200,000. was transferred to the fight against COVID to Proszowice district, which is managed by the Polish People's Party. So there's no discretion here. Another thing. 150,000. zł for the same hospital for a bronchoscope and an EKG camera. I use an example of one hospital all the time, but that's not an exception. Let me give you another example: the Government Local Investment Fund. I would like to thank all those who contributed to this. I am very pleased that my recommendations have also been accepted by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you to all those who have contributed to this. And thank you for working with the Proszowice district and representatives of PSL in this district is good. Because this cooperation for the citizens should look like this. $4270,000. PLN from the Government Fund for Local Investments for a CT scanner, for a laparoscopic tower, for an X-ray apparatus, i.e. almost PLN 5 million per year - but through good cooperation. So what can I wish you? That such cooperation should be in every place in Poland. But you must start with each other here in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u343	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u344	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will say these words again today: whoever gives and receives, he is in hell. I'll tell you why I'm saying this. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, on the 1st of May of this year, which is not so long ago, the so-called drugs used for HER2 have disappeared from the list of refunded medicines. positive breast cancer. Among the cases of all women who suffer from this very dangerous disease, that is about 15%. This group of medicines was refunded not long ago, because from 1 January 2020 the whole process of positive lobbying lasted 7 years: from the moment these medicines were registered until the date when the refund was introduced in Poland. He didn't last a year and a half. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, this is a mistake. I want to believe that this is a mistake, that this is not a deliberate action against Polish women suffering from breast cancer. Medicines such as cadcil, lapatinib, capecitabine, cyclobs - these are their names, probably the names of some of the active substances behind these medicines - they extend each day, each month, and may save women's lives in many cases. Minister! If you or your employees hear these words, on behalf of women, I ask you to change the wrong decision and return to your refund. Those women saw hope a year and a half ago. On May 1st, that hope was taken from them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u345	Thank you, sir. Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, Chelmzha celebrates the 770th anniversary of granting city rights. Today I want to pay tribute and honor to all those who have created, built and developed this city for hundreds of years. In 1251 bp. Heidenric gave the city city city rights. He called them Culmensee, which means a hill by the lake. The name Chelmzha appeared only in the 15th century. The period from the 13th to the 18th century is a very difficult period. At that time there were attacks by the Lithuanian tribes, wars with the Teutonic Knights, and Swedish wars, which ended in plundering and destroying the city. In the middle of the 18th century Polish patriotism was revived. This was demonstrated by the setting up of cultural associations, economic organisations. At the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, four school buildings were built in the city. In 1882 the construction of the sugar factory began, which was under the mid-60s. The 20th century was the largest sugar factory in Europe. The railway node and the small workplaces created caused a sharp increase in the population. After World War I, Chelmzha was armed against the Grenschutz troops. To this day you can hear many tales of heroic chelmjan attitudes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During World War II, several hundred chelmjans lost their lives. They died on almost all fronts of Europe, in German concentration camps, during mass shootings in Barbara - where my sleep died. The great-grandfather - during the exile in Siberia. Then came the difficult time of communism. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The years 1990 to 2021 are characterised by major changes in road infrastructure, sewerage, modernisation of schools, cultural and sport facilities in Chelmża. Chełmża as less than 14 thousandth city can boast a significant share in the development of Polish science. The Chelmżyn schools gave the knowledge to dozens of doctors, 15 of whom became professors. One of the most outstanding figures of the city is blessed Jute, the caretaker of the poor, blessed Fr. Frelichowski, patron of Scouts, Professor Tadeusz Glemma, Lt. General Tomasz Piotrowski, Polish champions and world champions in many sports. I also remember about the late parliamentarians from Chelmza: my rightful Stanisław Nehring and will send the then Polish sleeper. Andrzej Trouble. I remember all sports, social, councillors, city officials and city owners with the current mayor, Mr Jerzy Czerwinski at the head. Today I pay tribute and honor to all those who have worked for this city for many years. On the occasion of the 770th anniversary [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish the inhabitants of Chełmża to further develop their city. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u347	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Animal Rights Day Statement. On 22 May we celebrate the day of animal rights in Poland. This celebrated in honor of the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Animal Rights on 22 May 1997 is an excellent occasion to remind that, as the Act says: An animal, as a living being, capable of suffering, is not a thing. A man owes him respect, protection and care. I would like to remind you that it was the Law and Justice that raised the penalty for the abuse of animals up to 5 years of imprisonment, as well as in the autumn of last year that proposed a number of amendments concerning the protection of animal rights. Care and protection are not only for accompanying animals, such as dogs and cats, but also for farm and breeding animals. Let's keep that in mind every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a new law on voluntary firefighters raises a lot of controversy among volunteer firefighters. The Act changes the way TSOs operate as fire protection units. What really is the purpose of this amendment? Is this about the liquidation of an institution as important as the TSO? According to the bill, volunteers will not be allowed to call themselves firefighters or wear white helmets. I want them to lose their firefighter status. In return, they will be called CSR rescuers. The members of the TSO are also to be deprived of the statutory right to uniform. With funding the TSO will be even worse - a little carrot behind the window. It's not certain that volunteers will get it. A much lower amount of decency will also be added to the pension: over PLN 100 after 25 years of rescue operations. The left hand gave nothing, sir. The proposed provisions aim to introduce divisions in units and ultimately to reduce units in places where rescue and fire-fighting units would be set up. More than 16,000. national TSOs shall include less than 1/3 of the national rescue and fire-fighting system. TSOs have changed significantly in recent years. They differed in staff, organizational and financial levels. Indeed, 1/3 of the units of the TSO participates regularly in rescue and fire operations, but this does not mean that the rest remains dead. They work on a smaller scale. Besides, every volunteer fire department is unique. Depending on the circumstances, he conducts several forms of activity: from educational, educational, informational, preventive, preventive, artistic or sports and training work, chronicle, scientific, research work to support local initiatives and ordinary help to residents. The project shows that the catalogue of what the TSO can do will be closed, only that history shows how openness to initiatives and creativity is needed. In the 19th century, farmers' clubs, theatres, and artistic teams were created with the creation of CSR. Today the firehouse is also the workplace of the fire orchestra, but not only. Young volunteers deepen their interests by using modern technological solutions. The volunteer firefighter environment is generally shocked by these ideas. Many records can result in the destruction of hundreds of units. Volunteer firefighters and their authorities are talking more and more about senselessness, sharing and breaking up the environment that we need and not to replace. Unfortunately, the authors do not seem to see and understand exactly what the TSOs and their relationship are this year's 100 years of existence. There is no bill yet, sir. The CSR friends have always been close to the other man. They help in need at any time of day and night. Voluntaryly. This is so stupid. All members of the TSO, from the youngest to senior, have the honour and the right to help others in need. They got the highest public recognition for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u351	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u352	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Regional Council of Nurses and Obstetrics in Bydgoszcz informs about the gradual degradation of the profession of Polish nurses and midwives. Actions aimed at deepening the crisis in Polish nursing and obstetrics implemented by the current management of the Ministry of Health are reflected, among others. in the absence of implementation of the provisions of the State's long-term policy for nursing and obstetrics in Poland, signed by the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki in 2019, designing amendments to the Law on the lowest remuneration in health care, harming and sharing the environment of nurses and midwives, liquidation in 2020. Department of Nurses and Obstetrics against clear environmental opposition, planning for June this year. the liquidation of the Postgraduate Training Centre for Nurses and Obstetrics with the simultaneous transfer of postgraduate training to this professional group of doctors. Finally, fifthly, the absence of any dialogue from the current management of the Ministry of Health and the failure to implement the agreement of 9 July 2018. The discrimination of the professional group of nurses and midwives is aimed at deepening staff shortages, aggravating conflict situations and, consequently, lack of quality, availability and safety of nursing and maternity care for patients and society as a whole. In the face of a lack of dialogue and of persons competent to undertake it, the professional council of nurses and midwives informs parliamentarians that it has exhausted all possible ways to prevent the upcoming staff disaster. I appeal from this place to the Polish government, ladies and gentlemen: show respect for nurses and midwives and instead of applauding them, meet the demands of this professional group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u353	Thank you. Mr Maciej Górski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u354	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On 14 May 2021, by decision of the Management Board of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, Mr. Roman Postek ceased his position, who for 17 years was the director of the Armedery Museum at the Castle in Liva. Mr Postek has been associated with this castle for 33 years, where he started his work on January 1, 1988, just after graduating from the Faculty of Art History of the Catholic University of Lublin. During this time he passed all professional degrees: assistant, senior assistant, aide, curator. In 1999 he completed postgraduate studies in museums. Since November 2003, he has been the director of the museum in Liva and since 2005 after winning the competition - the director. In 2009, after the transfer of the museum by the county authorities to the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, Mr. Roman Postek also maintained the function of director. In 2014, he signed a 7-year executive contract. During his management function at the castle he carried out numerous renovations in a neglected historic complex, which gave him the appearance and character of an attractive museum and individual. One of the most important ones is the renovation of the roof and facade of the gate tower, the salvage of the foundations of the baroque manor house, which as a result of many years of neglect threatened to collapse, the exchange of virtually all facades. The last multi-annual project was the creation of a cultural and historical park at the castle of the Masovian princes in Liva, which enriched the place with a bridge of more than 130 m long, referring to the former crossing, the port of Livce and the Gothic cellars. For his work Mr. Roman Postek was also awarded by the authority leading the Mazowieckie voivodship. The museum also received numerous awards and gained recognition. Mr. Roman Postek was the initiator and performer of numerous events at the castle. It is mainly about knights' tournaments, which have become a cyclical event gathering tens of thousands of visitors, archaeological festivals or taste tournaments. During his work as director, he expanded the museum's collections by 647 exhibits and 60 deposits, which accounts for nearly 40% all the museum's resources. The pearls include the 18th-century portraits of Polish kings, handed over (The Bell) in deposit with the National Museum. Mr President, finish up. Thank you very much. One last sentence, Marshal. Last one. Here's the last one. Expressing appreciation for the work of Mr.Roman Postek, his commitment, the consequences of his actions, it is impossible not to express his disapproval and disappointment for the decision of the local government of Mazowieckie Voivodeship.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u355	That's a long sentence. Thank you, sir. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u356	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, during the parliamentary debate, the opposition, with only clear resistance, continues to attack all programs of the government of the United Right, Law and Justice, Solidar Poland and the Agreement. Programmes were attacked: the Justice Fund, the Local Initiative Development Fund and the Self-Government Road Fund. What are you charging, ladies and gentlemen? Well, you're accusing politics, you're accusing them of having a party key. I'll tell you what that party key looked like. The year 2018 - because then the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro launched the Justice Fund programme. And in the war, for example. The funds distributed to świętokrzyski amounted to PLN 5.5 million, they reached 98 municipalities - at 102. Why on 102? Because only four municipalities didn't apply for these measures. It was that political key. A 70% Local governments in executives in the war. Świętokrzyskie are politicians of the Polish People's Party or persons associated with the Polish People's Party. Because the Justice Fund works fairly. For the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General - the manager of this fund - party logs do not count. Ladies and gentlemen! Local Initiative Development Fund. You talk so much about children here, and thanks to the support of the Government of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polski, the Agreement 2.5 million PLN went to the psychological and pedagogical clinic in Końskie. Further measures - 1.5 million zlotys - found the drainage of the municipality of Słupia Konecka. Yes, for 16 years of government of the Polish People's Party in the local government of the war. Świętokrzyskiego and 8 years of government of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party here, in parliament, you were unable to reach these smallest municipalities where the Government of Law and Justice reaches and transfers these funds. This is the party key. Next: Revitalization of such municipalities, which by tsaristic orders were liquidated, and the government of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska restored historical justice. PLN 1 million transferred to revitalization of e.g. the Abbot or 300,000. PLN for small, small Czarnocin is an important means for this municipality. The Self-Government Road Fund - here too, of course, ladies and gentlemen, you see politics. And what did that policy look like? Again, an example of the war. świętokrzyskie. 16 years of government of the Polish People's Party and Civic Platform headed by Marshal Adam Jarubas, today MEP. How were the split funds? So, that during these 16 years, when the Polish People's Party was still in power for the next 16 years in the district council, the roads were not built. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The roads were ruined. It was only thanks to the Road Development Fund that the road Odrowąż - Wólka Plebańska - Niekłań managed to rebuild the road. In places like this where these projects were crucial. You just promised, and the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, implemented these programs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u357	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u358	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The changes that took place in Poland after 2015 made it possible to achieve many noble goals, such as commemorative anniversaries, improving the image of Polish history, expressing respect for national heroes. In this way years of neglect are repaired, as well as terrible years of desecration of values, and even murdering those who deserved the highest recognition for sacrifice to their homeland. The role of the state is to ensure that these stones cast onto the blaze become the cornerstones of our national identity, and that is what is happening. At the same time, we are seeing very dangerous new phenomena, such as the destruction of the language of social discussion and the availability of new pathologies in virtual space. In this reality, these serious actions of the government and many institutions perish in the noise and atmosphere of mutual aggression. Giant funds and actions do not achieve the intended educational goal. Or is it time to translate these good actions into the language of practical everyday life? Because for years, this is how many people act on the so-called. The last soft line. These are teachers who socially carry out many actions, employees of many foundations, niche publishing houses, young people, as well as pensioners. They translate the most important patriotic and human values into everyday life. They often do so in a revealing, non-standard way, yet respecting the freedom of choice of participants. Each of us may have met in our lives those who influenced his development through his extraordinary attitude. However, the problem remains how to make it even more effective for them to act. The competition of large institutions, the attitude of grant programmes towards hard actions, makes people so-called. the last line is still practically omitted. After the start of the march to the goal it was time to strengthen this area and give the possibility of wider action. This in turn will help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the upbringing of the young generation and in shaping the patriotic attitudes of young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u359	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter I want to bring up is extremely important. Namely, on 1 June of this year, new rules will enter into force concerning the so-called. priority of pedestrians. Pedestrians will have priority not only when they are already in the pedestrian transition, but also when they are only entering it. The president signed this bill at the beginning of March. Today is 21 May, the law enters into force in 9 days, and the most important preparatory element, namely the educational campaign, has not been implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! The priority of pedestrians is a kind of revolution for both drivers and pedestrians. Therefore, very clear information and education are needed for all road users. There was a minister's announcement, a National Road Safety Council announcement on the case. During the course of our work, we have asked repeatedly as Parliamentary Group on the subject. Road Safety, whether the government is prepared to make such a wide campaign addressed to different road users, to different road users, to older and younger people, using various kinds of tools, to carry out. That was our assurance. The effect is that this campaign didn't really start. And it's a serious risk and a very big responsibility, especially the government. After all, if unprepared society may have a stereotypical idea of how to behave in a pedestrian transition, it may result in an uncontrolled number of road accidents. I would like to inform the High House, the marshal, that in 2020 in Poland, despite the reduction in traffic caused by the pandemic, pedestrians were victims of every fourth accident. Such accidents were 5232, i.e. 22% all accidents, and died in these cases as many as 621 pedestrians. Seven out of 10 accidents involving them were caused by the drivers. Mrs. Marshal! This is a formula in which I inform the High House, I make a statement. However, please, because this case concerns the law we adopted and its entry into force scheduled for 1 June, to speed up the activities of the educational campaign. These TV spots (the bell), radio, information on the Internet should already be available to avoid tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u361	Thank you very much. I must say that among the statements that I have heard today, there have been many really substantive and interesting statements. I accept them, too. Thank you, Members. If this were to be the case, then, ladies and gentlemen, instead of asking questions, we should make orations and take positions... This is an excellent place to express your views on matters that are important to you and citizens within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today there has been an unprecedented scandal at the Court of Justice of the European Union. Vice-President of the TSUE Rosario Silva de Lapuerta has ordered one person to cease mining of brown coal in the Turów mine in Bogatynia. Turów Mine is responsible for 8% an energy mix, producing almost 5 million tons of coal each year. It happened at the request of our neighbours, the Czechs. What will that lead to? We will import coal or electricity from the Czech Republic or Germany alone. Turów directly employs about 3,600 people, according to PGE, around 15 thousand people work in the complex. It's your crazy pro-EU policy that's gonna lead to 15,000 losing their jobs. persons. What is more - exactly a week ago a new block of Turów power plants was put into service, which cost PLN 3700 million. There was supposed to be coal burning from the mine, where coal mining was banned. Why the TSUE is not so effective with regard to Gazprom, which wants to monopolise the gas market in the European Union, and why it will not block construction Nord Stream 2?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-21-sejm-30-3.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, at this end we have concluded our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned by 28 May 2021 at the latest. 12. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 15 min 43]]
