ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the National Defence Commission - hour 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 15. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of Express Roads S6 and S11 - hour 11, - Parliamentary Scouting Friends Team - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Kresów, Kresowian, and the legacy of the Eastern Lands of the former Republic - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Cooperation with Municipal Authorities of Municipalities, Districts and Voivodships - hours 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Development of Electromobility and Prosumer Energy - hour 15. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u2	Thank you. We proceed with the consideration of items 16 and 17 of the agenda: I ask the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present the justification for the draft budget law for 2022, as well as the justification for the draft law contained in print no. 1630.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u3	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you a draft budget law for 2022. As regards the macroeconomic situation, the Polish economy as one of the few countries of the European Union has recovered from the outbreak of a pandemic. In the second quarter of this year, GDP exceeded pre-pandemic levels and we recorded a record GDP reflection - 11.1% on a yearly basis. The Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government conducts a fiscal policy supporting economic growth also during the COVID-19 pandemic. Macroeconomic data show that this approach is right. Back to the path of dynamic growth is already visible. According to the European Commission, the recession in Poland was one of the lowest in Europe. We are forecasting that GDP will increase by 4.9% throughout 2021. year to year. And next year, the rate of growth is 4.6%. year-to-year. In 2022, the Member States of the European Union will be able to continue their budgetary policies without significant constraints on the European Union's speed of expenditure growth. This is due to the extension of the so-called term for this year. the general exit clause. In the amendment of the Public Finance Act, we indicated that we would return to the application of a stabilising expenditure rule in the original formula in 2023. This will enable us to further stimulate economic growth next year. As far as the situation on the labour market is concerned, it reflects the good economic situation and a reflection after the pandemic. We estimate that the labour market situation should be even better next year. We assume that slowing down the dynamics of average wages in the national economy in 2021 was only a temporary phenomenon related to the pandemic. We expect this dynamic to accelerate to 7.4% this year. , i.e. above the 2013 level in order to bring it down to 6.7% next year. We assume an annual average price increase of 4.3% for consumer goods and services. We predict that in 2022 it will amount to 3.3% on an annual average. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as budget data are concerned, we forecast that the total revenue in 2022 will amount to PLN 481.4 billion, including tax - PLN 446.3 billion. On the other hand, expenditure will amount to PLN 512.4 billion. The key actions of the Government of Law and Justice in socio-economic policy will continue. We provide 5,75% GDP for health protection. We provide funds for key social programmes such as: Family of 500+, Good Start or Family Care Capital. We ensure that pension benefits are valued from 1 March 2022 with a valorisation rate of 104.89%. We provide 2.2% GDP for national defence. We provide more resources for higher education and science. We provide funds for the implementation of investments, among others. in the area of health, agriculture, land transport or culture and the protection of national heritage. State budget deficit... Minister, Minister, if you're disturbed by the mask, you can take it off on the stand. Yeah, yeah. Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy Tadeusz Kościński: That's better, thank you. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, it will be better.]] The deficit of the state budget will be no more than PLN 30.9 billion, i.e. almost 10 billion less than in the revised budget law for this year. We expect a general government deficit in 2022, so-called "government deficit." General government, 2.9% GDP, which is below EU indicators. The general government debt-to-GDP notification as defined by the Union will decrease to 57% in 2021 and then to 56,6% in 2022, it is worth mentioning that despite the application of a pro-investment and active fiscal policy to help us get out of the crisis already in 2022, we will comply with the convergence rules laid down by the Maastricht rules. Our deficit, the fullest one, i.e. covering all expenditures, applied by the European Commission, will be less than 3%. This shows that we are starting to consolidate public finances without damaging public, social and investment expenditure. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of fiscal policy, which supports economic growth, is an opportunity for faster development of Poland. In the Budget for 2022, we provide the funds for pro-investment measures necessary for our success in the economy and for key social programmes for Poles and Poles. It is a safe, mitigating impact of the pandemic and supporting the reconstruction of the Polish economy of the financial plan. Please accept the draft budget law for 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u4	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed in a joint discussion on these items on the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 106 minutes and 6 minutes, that is an average debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[But that's it, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u5	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Is this the entire budget?]] [[The voice from the gym:]] I think the entire budget is in the bill, print no. 1624. You can read because this is a budget bill that has several hundred pages. [[Ten minutes?]] So it's probably hundreds of thousands of numbers that are included in the bill. [[There you go. The Minister said 10 minutes.]] Exactly, so I expect the Minister to talk about this budget for 15 minutes, which he has set up. Don't be nervous. I understand you're... Madam, Madam, I ask you very much... [[You want a citizen to read it? Respect for people.]] Madam President, I ask you very much not to discuss the benches now. Don't show such emotions. I understand you're upset about this budget, because it's actually after the pandemic period an excellent budget. That's one word for it. [[Not the budget. Your attitude.]] The success of the rule of law and justice is extremely annoying to the opposition. [[Where is he?]] But for Poles this is a good budget. I think no matter how you yell, this budget will be implemented well. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice we will strongly support the draft budget contained in print 1624 and the so-called draft. the around budget law included in print no. 1630, because this is indeed, as the Minister mentioned, the development budget. It is developmental, but it is also implemented in difficult conditions. I hope that these difficulties are already in the past, but yet the COVID pandemic has marked a huge impact on the European economy, including the Polish economy. However, thanks to the very smart economic policy of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government, thanks to very effective helping entrepreneurs save jobs, we can say that we have actually been through this crisis almost dry leg. I mean, we're back to... [[Game in the O.R.]] You will really have the opportunity to speak here. When someone hears uncomfortable words of truth, it's annoying, but please refrain from commenting. [[You tell the Poles how many people...]] I understand, sir, that if you perform, and this party screams, you will be okay with that, I understand. You want to take this form of discussion. There you go. Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm going back to analyzing this budget. Indeed, the pandemic period has been a deadly period for many countries, many countries have not yet returned to the level of economic development that was before the pandemic, Poland has already returned to this level, which is the most important one. Of course, after 2020 a very small drop in economic development 2021 is already a year of economic growth, and this is very significant. The year 2022. Economic growth is also envisaged for the budget. I think it's too modest, but you always have to estimate carefully, 4.6% GDP growth. I stress once again that I think that it is too modest, but the budget should always be constructed in a responsible, cautious way. It is better that we update it, as in 2021, because we have made much more revenue from the budget and we can afford more expenditure than we would have to update the budget in 2022 because of the lack of revenue, and we remember these times - and I think these are the times rightly past - when the budget was revised, but because of the under-impact of the plan. So here even if there is such a situation that we will need to revise the budget, because these assumptions are too cautious, we can feel completely safe in implementing it. I stress once again that this is a huge credit to responsible government policies for the pandemic period, effective helping entrepreneurs. Thanks to this, the labour market has remained almost preserved, because the decline or increase in unemployment by less than 1% in a period when unemployment has increased by a lot of percent in many countries is a really great achievement. Entrepreneurs appreciate it. So talk to entrepreneurs who are really grateful for the aid that was applied, especially in 2020, because this allowed economic development to continue. On the other hand, the budget assumptions for 2022 indicate that the labour market will continue to increase by a further 0.7%. Although the number of employees will increase by 0.5% in 2021. So this really is a significant increase in employment, which means a significant increase in tax revenue. I think that Poland's Load will make a significant contribution to economic growth, to economic development, contrary to what is being said and what some say, because 17 billion PLN will remain in Poles' pockets. Some say that taxes are being raised. So how does money remain in the pockets of Poles? Exactly. So I would appeal for logical statements when there will be a discussion on the Polish Load, which will of course be implemented already in 2022 and which will have a budgetary impact. The public investment that the government is preparing under the Government's Strategic Investment Programme will certainly also be a factor in the growth of economic development. The crucial role of these strategic investments is above all to bring about a European standard of living especially in areas that have been perhaps more neglected so far, in rural areas and small cities. The funds to the municipalities are really of an unprecedented scale so far, so this will certainly translate into the implementation of this budget, because this money will be directed and spent and these investments will be carried out in 2022. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that this is a pro-investment budget, a pro-development budget that supports investment that supports economic development. Of course, as with any budget, a risk assessment must be calculated and a risk factor may arise. First of all, we do not really know how the pandemic will develop, although it is now clear that, despite the increase in the level of infection, there is not as much problem as there was a year ago or at the turn of February and March of this year. On the other hand, more vaccinated people flatten the effects of the pandemic. We would like to say that it would be good if the number of vaccinated were even higher, because then we would not feel a pandemic at all and would not calculate the risks associated with the implementation of the budget. However, this risk must be borne in mind, but I think that this caution in budgetary assumptions allows us to look safely into the future and to implement this budget. Importantly, one year after the pandemic, this budget was prepared using a stabilising expenditure rule. Of course, it was suspended for 2020, and with the consent of the European Commission, all countries are They did because it was the hardest year of the year. In 2021, the path of return to a stabilising expenditure rule was already indicated and 2022 was already built on a stabilising principle of expenditure, which was enshrined in the Public Finance Act in 2013. So this causes - as the Minister emphasized - that in 2022 there will be a reduction in debt compared to GDP, which is of course a huge success these days, because we are not moving towards the abyss. I don't want to remind you of a time when that's what happened. In 2022 there will be a reduction in debt compared to GDP, so we return to the path of development, to the path of sustainability of public finances. How can all this be accomplished? First of all, we are reaping the fruitage of many actions that have already been done in previous years. Mostly this is the result of sealing the tax system, where VAT has an extremely important position. After all, this VAT revenue without raising the tax scale - I stress: without increasing the tax scale - it has increased almost twice for a few years. My colleague will talk about these tax revenues in detail, so I will not go into details, but the VAT tax revenue has doubled. So this sealing of this system, which we talked about in 2015, in 2016, really worked. There are, of course, new taxes that we also calculate. Finally, there is a retail tax that was introduced four years ago. The European Commission has tried to block us with regard to this tax, fortunately the European Court of Justice has accepted our proposal. Of course, the retail tax is not intended to serve as a complement to the budget, although it is a substantial amount: almost PLN 3 billion, but above all it is intended to equalise opportunities between the big trading networks and small Polish shops. Another factor enabling these opportunities to be evened out should be introduced from January as part of the Polish Governance tax on large corporations. Unfortunately, so far, large corporations have been very effective in avoiding taxation. Hence this tax on income, one can say, concerning large corporations, which have so far practically not paid tax, will be another element of equalising opportunities. It may not be fully effective yet, but it is another significant step to make these opportunities even on the Polish market. Let us also take into account that the implementation of this budget in 2022 consumes the effects of tax reductions caused by the Polish Ład, which is also extremely important, because these reductions have negative effects on the budget. This is about PIT, CIT, etc. Thus, all these elements, which translate into leaving money in taxpayers' pockets, have, of course, budgetary implications. Despite this, the budget could be made up with such a small deficit, because revenue has been determined, I will remind you, at the level of 481.5 billion, and expenditure - at the level of 512.6 billion, i.e. we have a deficit slightly above PLN 30 billion, so really, if we take into account the scale of the pandemic and the times in which we are currently operating, this is a very, very small deficit. However, I would like to remind you that, of course, with regard to the PIT tax, despite the reduction of the rate for 2022 - of course, it will be slightly lower than in 2021 - its revenues will be higher than in 2020, which means that everyone is much richer, and the increase in wages... [[Joy in the Chamber]] The increase in wages is set at more than 7%. Of course, everyone here will be screaming that inflation is only that if inflation is much lower than wage growth, it means that this is a positive solution. And no matter what everyone shouts about the rise in wages here, I'd prefer it to drive the inflation away significantly, because then everyone gets rich. It's simple, but I don't know if everyone can understand it, because there's gonna be screaming about how people are losing it. [[And that's why you set the average annual rate at 0%?]] No, inflation isn't 0%. There's inflation... [[Voice from the hall: No, it's the average annual indicator in the budget.]] Mr President, please do not discuss this with the Member. Please. The inflation is not defined there, there is a medium annual indicator which is something else. Let's remember that 6% is an indicator in this year's budget revision, which will be a form that goes into the following year, so it can be said that for these 2 years the limit of 6% has been calculated. When it comes to salary increases. So here it really is that this implementation of the budget, the implementation of revenue, makes the budget really stable, responsible. It is also worth noting that expenditure has not been reduced anywhere, especially social expenditure, it is about programmes: 500+ and Good start, family care capital, but also about the valorization of pensions, which is expected to amount to almost 5%. This also applies to national defence expenditures. Yeah, it's probably gonna be criticized right now that it's 2.2%. GDP. I would also like to stress that health expenditure will reach 5.75% That's almost 6%. So maybe before you start criticizing and demanding money for health, think about how much of your time's GDP has been spent on health. I'm not talking about nominal amounts anymore, I'm talking about GDP. Then it was just over 4%, and now it's almost 6%, so that's the difference. [[Two years back counted.]] Mrs. Member! Really, when you compare these numbers, you can't fool them: in your day, it wasn't much more than 4%, and now it's almost 6%. GDP allocated to health care. Of course, everyone would want it to be 7% as soon as possible. but this is the target level that will definitely be achieved. But criticizing, talking about it -- because that's probably how it's gonna happen -- that we spend unnecessary money on national defense... I just want to stress that security is actually priceless. Everything will lose any meaning, meaning: and health care, and social services, and everything if we lose our independence, if we are weak and we are enslaved, so really national defense is a thing... [[What are you saying?]] National defence and national defence spending should really bring everyone together, not share, because security in this case, a sense of security is the most important. This budget takes this into account, which is why, of course, the Law and Justice Club will support this budget. I hope that the opposition will also see in this budget the advantages that will allow for its support. Unless it's a political game that won't allow it. Really, look at the budgets that were built in previous years, why this one is worth supporting, and I hope you will see that it has so many advantages that you can really support it with full responsibility and that it is worth doing so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u6	Thank you. Before we go to the next speaker, I would like, first of all, to thank all the Members who follow the facial arrangements and at the same time to ask Members who do not do this to put on these masks. If not, I'm asking you to leave the room. Here you are, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Let's start with what's actually left in the wallets of Poles, because that's what the first lie that came out of this speaker today, although before that, the Minister also missed the truth. [[Voice from the room: There is no lie.]] The result of this so-called. In 10 years, this is in the budget: - 42 billion PLN. [[What do you mean, you counted it?]] On the other hand, the effect of the law, which is already being processed in the RCL and in a moment will be in the Sejm, raising excise duty, will, attention, be an additional revenue to the state budget of PLN 103 billion in 10 years. Then it stays in those pockets. Are the Poles still getting out of these pockets? Yes, New Deal still has a negative effect on local governments. And this is actually 112 billion PLN. So, in order to be meticulous, Mr Kowalczyk, you need to read really well the impact assessments of the regulations that the Minister is preparing, because everything is standing there, it is clearly written how much you take out of the pockets of Poles. And as for whether wages are growing faster than inflation, because that is what you have used here, then, sir, please refer to the members of the Monetary Policy Council. Well, they already have an analysis that says that a price-paid spiral is a big threat. Therefore, in panic, contrary to the words of President Glapiński, they have recently raised interest rates very quickly, causing quite a stir on the market, because the President cannot say one thing and on the other day do something else. And the last correction for the beginning: health. Mr Kowalczyk, indeed the government of the Civic Platform and PSL in times of extremely difficult time, in times of crisis... You sound like you don't understand the financials. [[Voice from the room: Always a crisis...]] You're still putting together a big financial crisis and a four-year-old hoss and a great economic economy. But let's put a veil of silence on it. How much did the PO-PSL government spend on health in relation to GDP? Well, indeed, sir, it is very little, 4.42%. Not much... [[Not much.]] ...in a crisis. And do you know how much you're spending next year when we have the second year of reflection, the economic growth you're boasting and enjoying? 4.89%. This is the bill, sir. That's 5,75% of yours. It's a big scam, and I'll get right to it. [[Applause]] In fact, Mr President, one of the netizens best sums up six years of your governments. He wrote this: 6 years of PiS is 6 PLN for gas at the station and 6% inflation. Actually, it's hard to get a better comment. But let's move on to the budget bill for 2022. [[Voice from the room: What about this health?]] I'm gonna get better because this is the second or third fraud on my list. If I could ask for time, Your Marshal... [[Voice from the room: Don't cheat.]] The next draft budget laws submitted to the Sejm have less and less to do with reality, they are becoming more and more similar to the report of Prof. Krysiak, paid by the MEP Jaki. You can use euphemisms and talk about creative accounting, about propaganda of success, because the Seym is not the place to use strong words, but in my opinion the Seym is primarily not the place to deceive citizens, what you do permanently. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is the task of the opposition to call things by name and I will do it, because what the Minister has asked to bring is no longer creative accounting, it is no longer, Minister, even propaganda of success. Today you have deceived the High Chamber and the Polish citizens in this room. [[That's a serious charge.]] Well, let's start with the scams. The first fraud is a forecast of inflation. To better understand what I'm talking about, let's remember the forecast for this year. Do you remember what she was like? 1.8% and the National Bank of Poland predicted this even 1.5%. Today we have 6%. And it is not important to compromise the National Bank of Poland. What's important is why you actually put such forecasts in the budget, not having anything to do with reality. After all, the National Bank of Poland has the task of maintaining price stability. How can it maintain price stability as its forecasts are like a bullet to the fence? Of course, you're doing this because lowering the forecast, so much lowering the inflation forecast, is a chance for another lie, a lie about sealing. Instead of telling Poles: we apologize very much, you paid inflation tax, the worst, most painful, because invisible, it comes to Prime Minister Morawiecki and says it is the success of the government. He did it two weeks ago for an amendment. And what's the Ministry of Finance's forecast for 2022? 4.3%. Let me remind you that today we have 6%. I wonder what would reduce inflation, which has been out of control a long time ago, because the response of the Monetary Policy Council was too late, inconsistent with the announcement of President Glapiński. Do you know what the effect of this tardiness of the National Bank of Poland will be next year? You know that, Minister. We will have higher inflation, which is more expensive, we will have higher interest rates than we could be if NBP behaved not under the dictation of party expectations, but as an independent central bank, which means we will have a more difficult situation for entrepreneurs, borrowers and consequently a weaker economy. So far, entrepreneurs have feared the instability of the law, the hostile environment for business, the oppressive fiscal, that is, everything that the PiS government has been funding them for six years. Today, on the other hand, the central bank joined it - it deepens chaos and a sense of uncertainty. Remember, these actions are dangerous to the economy, i.e. budgetary revenues, that is, to the economic security of citizens. If we add to this your unprecedented attack on the European Union and, de facto, the formal announcement of polexit, which Mrs Julia Przyłębska did in her Constitutional Court, we should not be surprised by the second fraud that we find in this budget after the inflation forecast. It is a great absent, or National Plan for Reconstruction, which evaporated as if it did not exist. And yet the KPO -- you boasted about it everywhere -- this is a higher rate of economic growth by at least 0.5 percentage points per year. Why didn't the government include this in the forecast? We've seen billboards all over Poland. The billions of zlotys were to be sent to Polish families, to the Polish village. So? Nothing. PiS wiped that money out for Poles from under their noses because he must have party courts, impunity for his people and your dark interests. There's no money, we don't know if they're gonna be there. There's no sign of investment in the National Reconstruction Plan in the budget bill... [[We can do this.]] ...and they were supposed to drive the Polish economy, allow it to bounce back from the pandemic. So what do you say? Will you spend that money under the table like the COVID fund? Unless the government, when preparing the budget, already in the middle of the year knew that it would not meet the requirements of the European Commission and would not ensure independence for the courts. President Kowalczyk witnessed that we had already told Minister Buda in the finance committee that you had to meet the condition of the European Semester. This was a condition, and I quote the European Commission's recommendation: improving the investment climate, in particular by protecting the independence of the courts. Remember, stubborn courts are one of the reasons for low investment. He's never been as short as your rule. This level is still falling. Your fight with the European Union will end for investment in Poland, for our development a disaster, because compliance with EU law is a guarantee for investors of the security of their money. Really, these basic things need to be understood. Your marshal, or... Speaking of which, my fellow Member. Because after yesterday's system failure, we can't set up time because we have hours and not minutes, I'll tell you how many minutes you have left. You're working all the time to fix this. 50 minutes to go. [[One second, Marshal.]] Okay, thank you very much. There are no private investments, but there are no public investments. You set this level for next year - 4,8% GDP. Is that a reflection? Is that an acceleration? Do you know the level of public investment during the PO-PSL governments? Up to 7% GDP. We spent money on it. [[And Polish companies fell because of it.]] Now, not only do you not know how to invest at all, but you will not have the money for it, because contrary to the bubble of President Glapiński and Prime Minister Morawiecki, these hundreds of billions are not there. What you have is debt. I don't know on what basis you're assuming, because that's in the explanatory statement, an increase in public investment, followed by an increase in private investment. Really, all you're doing is a prescription for slowing down, including yours. New Deal. But there's a third fraud because it was two. [[What about this health?]] This third fraud is health, Madame, or rather health expenditure. In the introduction to the justification, which the Minister quoted, you wrote that the health expenditure would increase to 5,75%. GDP. This is not true, this is a fraud that unfortunately remains after Minister Szumowski. This has already been mentioned by Mrs Skowronska. It's just not the ventilators, it's the Minister Szumowski's second scam. Well, when you told the doctors that they were going to grow, you put 6% in the bill. The GDP you want to reach. This is really going to be so much - only that it's GDP from two years ago. [[From the pandemic.]] You know what that means? What year did you calculate GDP in 2022? OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Let me remind you that it was, Minister, the year of recession, the first in 30 years. In the year of the recession, GDP was lower by PLN 400 billion than what we are forecasting for next year. And that's health fraud. Like I said, it's 5,75%. but not in relation to next year's GDP. After two years of pandemic, after health care, after protests by a white town of medics, after 100,000 died. People, I'm talking about 100,000. so-called. Excessive deaths... [[140.]] Well, maybe it's $140,000, the guys say. Shame on you. And in this year's health, you're proposing 4.89%. GDP? That is not even 5%, Mr Kowalczyk. Count it. [[Applause]] [[I can count, my fellow Member.]] [[And nominally how many billions is that?]] Because national defence measures are really supposed to be 2.2% GDP, but GDP projected. But how you're wasting your money, Prime Minister Siemoniak will talk about it. And now I'm going to talk about the fourth fraud, probably the biggest one, because it's that the government has basically created a parallel budget outside the control of Parliament and society. It is a fund at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, so-called. Anti-COVID fund. Within this fund we have the Government Local Investment Fund, which is your electoral fund for local governments that support the PiS. Prime Minister Morawiecki seems to have envied Minister Ziobra that he has some other Justice Fund and buys anyone who comes to his mind, where he wants to win the election, a fire truck or distributes money from grants to the companies of the pillars. So Prime Minister Morawiecki made such a fund for himself and called it: Government Fund Polski Ład: Program of Strategic Investments, but it will no longer be millions, it will be huge billions, 140 billion PLN, to be spent in the next few years. Attention, about the money from this fund, 140 billion PLN outside the budget is decided by Prime Minister Morawiecki. He can give what he wants, what he wants, who he wants. Congratulations on your transparency. And in fact, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the High Sejm, we should not be discussing this budget at all today. What are we talking about? We are talking about the budget in which the Minister boasted that he has a small deficit of PLN 30 billion. I mean, you could've brought a balanced one. The effect would be even greater. Propaganda on TVP Info so you can play on it for a week. What difference does it make whether you show 30 billion or show 10 billion deficits or a balanced budget, like 350 billion zlotys you have outside the budget. You've already paid us in two years for that kind of money. [[Applause]] This is the second budget. The thieving budget, the cheating budget, because we can't control it. [[Applause]] And five more frauds on this budget. It's already very sad. These are the funds you've multiplied. And you have dozens of institutes, agendas, funds. Every minister has something of his own. For his relatives and friends, his rabbit. How embarrassing are you? Do you know what this looks like? This National Freedom Institute, you give it 208 million zlotys next year. This is the one that gives Bąkiewicz money to drown out the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] How embarrassing are you? At the same time, in the same budget for helping seniors, help seniors not to sit on the fourth floor, where there is no one to give them a slice of bread, they allocated 40 million PLN in the multiannual programme. For Bąkiewicz - 208, for old people - 40 million. [[Disgraceful!]] And finally, the sixth scam of this budget, because I thought there were five. But today the media could read what was indicated in today's interview for Virtualna Polska long-term director of the macroeconomic department doctor of the Sławomir Dudek School of Economics. I'll quote you, Minister: I've calculated that next year's spending policy in the covid fund is zero. Not one gold expenditure, although we know very well that the debt from this fund is expected to increase by additional billions of zlotys in the near future. To Eurostat they reported that 120 billion PLN this year and next year. I quote further: Moreover, given the data from another part of the budget law, it can be calculated that debt outside the control of Parliament, which is mainly in the covid fund, according to the Ministry of Finance, is to increase by more than 120 billion PLN, on the one hand we say that debt will increase by billions, on the other hand we put zero expenditure from the main fund into the budget. I'm talking about it with full conviction. I quote Sławomir Dudek that this is a budgetary fraud. Somewhere the government's lying, there's no other way. We are dealing with budgetary fraud on a previously unseen scale, which is why I believe that Parliament is wasting time dealing with this document. Parliament should fully send the budget back to the ring that prepared it and demand a true budget. With a full bill, [[Applause]] with revealed spending paradises of Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[And that's the word: the ring...]] Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I ask the Minister of Finance: What expenses did COVID-19 set up in the spending rule? What part of the debt is the debt in the funds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego? How many billions of gold is that? And does the deficit of the whole public finance sector for 2022 assume zero expenditure on COVID? At the same time, the Civic Coalition Club applies for rejection at first reading of the budget law and appeals to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Finance: you are playing not with your money, and Poland is not a farm which can be managed by a dumb and greedy economist. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u8	Please take the floor of Mr Darius Evening, the Left. [[That's the level of discussion, right?]] [[The level of the budget.]] 25 minutes, sir, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u9	Yeah, I think I'm just gonna have to... I'll tell you what's left of it every now and then. There you go. Okay, so I'll give it 12 or 13 minutes, we'll give it a try. 12 minutes, sir? Good. I'll try to help you. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be nervous.]] Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I can see that the situation in the Chamber is very hot, but I am not surprised at all, because, frankly, when I listened to the Minister and the President, I wonder if we have ever read the same budget or read the same document, because I have the impression that we have read completely different documents. You can say this: this is the budget of tightening the belt, this is the budget which unfortunately shows us that you are cheating us as Poles and Poles. This is a budget that is not - I have even written it myself - a development budget, a budget that will cause economic development, a budget that will improve the situation on the labour market, a budget that is pro-investmental, because you have assumed that this is a pro-investment budget. We're about to prove that it isn't. Minister! The question is, where is the truth? President Glapiński says: The German economic miracle is nothing compared to what we do in Poland. When I read this budget, I don't really see it, so I'm trying to find out and we're trying to find out where this economic miracle in Poland is. Mr President, like a mantra, tells us that we gave or gave 17 billion PLN to Poles, so I will admit that I am looking for these 17 billion and unfortunately on these 600 pages I do not see these 17 billion for Poles and Poles. Why can't I see? [[This is the Polish Load.]] And I don't see it because it's enough to read the first 30 pages - then it comes out what you really are. Debt growth - PLN 140 billion, public television - transfer at the request of the National Council of Radiophony and Television 2 billion PLN, 1995 million, forecast price increase rate - 3.3%, currently 6% I mean, it's not a science fiction. It's just science fiction. As for the other things - in a moment we will move on to taxes - we will see that it is not at all what you are telling us here. I know, Minister, that you want to be like Janosik, who takes away the rich and gives to the poor. But unfortunately, in your case it is absolutely the opposite - you give the rich, and you take the poor. And now the question is, how does it actually look in this budget? Just look at the income. As far as revenue is concerned, you are currently planning a major change in the budget for 2021. Let me just remind you that there are 80 billion zlotys. It's probably that economic miracle... [[Voice from the room: The biggest.]] ...but I would like to say once again: this 80 billion PLN was not found thanks to the government, Prime Minister, PiS, only thanks to the hard work of Poles and Poles and unfortunately due to your mistakes in economic policy, because just inflation, rising taxes - all this makes the budget more money. Just so we're clear, our money. Therefore, when we look now at what you are planning in 2022, comparing even this with the 2021 amendment, this is the case: the tax on goods and services, the famous VAT, the increase in revenue by 10% in 2022 - already in relation to what will be included in the amendment. So stop saying you're chasing the VAT mob, because if you're chasing the VAT mob for six years, these mobs are gone, because you're saying you're effective. Therefore, these 10% In absolute figures of PLN 21 billion, that is our money. This is the money that we pay every day in the store, this is the money that we pay in the rent, this is the money that we pay in the price of electricity, this is the money that we pay in the price of gas and all the goods that we operate every day and that we buy. So stop cheating that this is due to any economic growth, because it only results from price increases. Therefore, we are already paying 21 billion more. Excise duty - of course, you are planning again very gently, an increase of PLN 3 billion, we will pay again a higher excise duty, but we already know that there is an amendment. This excise will increase. The price of fuel is rising, it is already above 6 PLN, and therefore I have the impression that, as far as excise duties are concerned, you are again underestimating these revenues. What happens when it comes to personal income tax? 17 billion PLN, Mr President? 17 billion PLN - I understand it, thinking so in engineering, relatively simply, that since this year you are planning this PIT at the level of 71 billion PLN, minus 17 billion should not be 67 billion and 50 billion. Of course, we simplify - to be clear, we simplify. [[Pay's on the rise.]] Of course the wages are rising. But just so we're absolutely clear, you're cheating us because in this PIT we're going to pay 7.75%. more of this tax because there is no health relief. Therefore, so far that we have deducted from each other these 7,75, each of you has deducted from each other, at the moment you will not deduct it, so you will be paid a normal tax, which is calculated according to the tax scale. And the second thing you're not talking about is 9% of your health contributions. This, of course, is nowhere here, it will appear in the budget of the NFZ and then we will see what amounts it will be, but to be clear, this is a normal tax, which as Poles and Poles we will pay. So I have the impression that today you are unable, Minister and Mr President, to really assess what these tax revenues will be. With regard to income, you also have an exceptionally weak assessment of the revenue of the Treasury companies. I understand, they're managed as they're managed, so you don't expect any dividends there, there's probably going to be a lot of losses. Payments from the profit of the National Bank of Poland - I do not know, President Glapiński says that we have an economic miracle, and it turns out that he plans to pay not 8 billion, but 800,000. Only, by 90% less than this year. Therefore, if we do all of this here, this 17 billion PLN is not visible, not to mention that we will actually pay more, approx. 42 billion PLN. As for underestimating the budget for these different reasons - we estimate that this is the amount Twenty-five billion zlotys, so you'll probably be updating this budget a few more times at that time. On the other hand, we pay attention to the following - this is something that, I think, in the long term will cost us very expensive as a country, as Poles and Poles. You say it - and the Minister said it too, until I wrote it down - about this pro-investment budget. Let me read something that you have forgotten, because now it is not known whether we will have a National Plan for Reconstruction, whether there will be funds from the European Union, but you have been preparing - I do not know if you remember, dear PiS-ie - a strategy for responsible development by 2020. When we reach into this document, we can read one thing that Prime Minister Morawiecki presented at the time, and that was four and five years ago. The Polish economy is characterised by a low investment rate, the investment rate in Poland is lower than the average for OECD countries and the lowest in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. Between 2006 and 2015 Poland had 20.7% GDP of investment, region almost 24% and OECD 21.1%. A key problem is the low rate of private sector investment, including business investments. In Poland, the share of the private sector in total investment expenditure exceeded 80% by 2007 to fall to 71% in 2011 and up to 78.1% in 2015 So now we're going to start to analyze this pro-development budget in these absolute numbers. As for the budget itself, assuming expenditure of PLN 512 billion, because you are planning expenditure, in 2022 you want to spend PLN 29 billion only on property expenditure, i.e. 5.6% And that's the assumption in this budget. What happened with regard to the budget of 2021? Expenditure of PLN 523 billion, investments of PLN 40 billion, property, i.e. close to 8% , therefore, we see a clear trend that as far as property expenditure is concerned, they are decreasing. Let's take a look at the investments in terms of the percentage of GDP, which is what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, what you rightly drew attention to when preparing the sustainable development strategy. There is no development of the economy without investment. Let's go back to 2015. Hated Civic Platform, hated Platform and PSL governments. What was the share of investment in GDP at the time? 22%. If we look at your last 6 years now, it's 2019 and 18.3%, 2020 and 16, about 17%. , 2021,16,7% , the year 2022.16.4%. So... Sorry, sir, I promised you 12 minutes... Yeah, I can see it here, half a minute more. Good. Therefore, this is the best indication of your concept in terms of economic policy. This is not a pro-development policy, because if these investments are not there, there will be no jobs, there will be no development, there will be no budget resources and we pay particular attention to this, because without the investment there is no economic development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u10	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this system is being fixed all the time, so if it turns out that after this line, it's gonna be fixed, I'm gonna have to adjourn unless you... Because we only have the specified time in one computer. For now, I can instruct you, or we'd have to move it. Let's try again. You've got 12 minutes left here. Now Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget for 2022 needs to be discussed, starting from the analysis of the situation of 2020, 2021 and referring to the starting year of 2019, as this period of pandemics has had a significant impact on the situation of the past 2 years and this year, hence the analysis and revision of the budget and in 2020 and 2021. Of course, this is the impact of the pandemic, but other measures have also responded to this, which have made the situation much easier, even if the European Union has removed the limits of the spending rule, which have been significantly disciplined by the budget in the past. The monetary and fiscal policies have been exceptionally loosened, which is revealed by the scale of increasing debt, in a justified part. More aid shields have been launched, which have helped many companies to maintain employment, but this has also translated into an increase in debt. It should be mentioned that there was a difference in the distribution of funds from aid shields, not always where they should be. Thus, fiscal rules are being dismantled, public finances are becoming more opaque. The recession that touched us turned out to be more shallow than it had previously been assumed. We have seen, although I would like to stress that it is periodic, temporary, such a post-COVID reflection in the economy which gives an illusion, I repeat, an illusion that public finances are not in a bad state. I think that was the reason for some predictions, among others. income growth, for example, such a significant increase in VAT income, which I do not believe will be achievable. And as experts have already pointed out, there is a slowdown in the economy and this reflection will significantly slow down at the end of the year and at the beginning of the future, which will then translate into impacts on the budget. In the draft budget 2022, the government was optimistic about the forecast of inflation and deficit. Given the macroeconomic environment and the galloping rise in prices of all types of energy and raw materials and the rising labour costs, it will not give such revenue to the budget as they are intended. Production costs will increase to an unprecedented extent, cost is intimidating, producers are scared, especially consumers. While rising inflation during the first stage is convenient for the government - it results in increased budget revenue - but it is another tax for citizens and then the cause of the crisis if it is uncontrollable. The question is, therefore, what happens in public finances in our country, in finance outside the budget. The Polish Development Fund, mentioned by Mrs Leszczyna, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, COVID Fund and other institutions outside the state budget - since 2016. More than 50 have been created - they are in debt on behalf of the State to finance various imaginary government programmes, excluding the parliament and national definition of sovereign public debt. This is happening outside the parliament. The plans for all these additional funds were not accompanied by very comprehensive documents concerning the draft budget 2022. Only then would a full picture of the state's financial situation be created, because we have a second budget outside the budget. Of course, this approach has created a situation in which the Prime Minister does not have to ask the Sejm for permission for various expenses, because he has his own, as someone has described it nicely, spending paradise outside the budget. It's extremely irresponsible not to say manipulative. This problem was also noted by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which in its report on the implementation of the budget shows that the budgetary plan is no longer relevant, that any result can be achieved in it and that the state budget has lost its rank and has been depreciated. Few places in the budget are devoted to matters of the Polish Government, almost in general the National Plan for Reconstruction, a great financial framework is ignored. Is it an assumption that these measures will not be in 2022? The tragic situation in the area of health, education, agriculture and local governments will be discussed by other colleagues from the Coalition Polska - PSL club. I do not want to dwell on the importance of investment, Mr Wieczorek spoke about it a lot. I believe that the budget is too optimistic and not realistic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u12	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. The Polish Coalition has 9 minutes left. We're gonna get to the end of this round and I'm gonna announce a ten-minute break, because we might be able to fix this so you can see it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u13	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm short. Again, we have a budget that, instead of reducing taxes, increases spending, which increases the scale of looting and waste. You still do not understand that - contrary to what is always said - the less money in the budget, the more money in citizens' wallets, and the more money in citizens' wallets, the more money is spent more efficiently, because a man spends his money on his needs, spends more cost-effectively and on purpose than an official who spends his money on his own needs, so spends inefficiently and purposelessly, regardless of how good his intentions are, because hell with good intentions is paved. One of the effects of such thinking is what we have now, i.e. record increase in fuel prices. It is worth noting that this affects not only drivers. It touches everyone, because when someone walks to the store on foot to buy bread, it pays for the price of bread for fuel, thanks to which the van could even bring the bread to this store. This, of course, is one of the factors that causes current inflation. I would like to humbly advise Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Modestly, so I'm going to quote someone's words that seem clear, obvious and absolutely right to me. They sound like: more than half the price of petrol It's taxes. The government can reduce them. I'd lower my excise duty, which would lower the price of gasoline, but that takes courage and responsibility. If Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński had doubts about the correctness of these words, I note that these are the words of Jarosław Kaczyński. These are your words, Prime Minister, from when you were in opposition. Meanwhile, now that the PiS has come to power, it does exactly the opposite of what it promised. This means that it introduced an additional fee a few years ago and has already doubled, in 2018 and 2019, increased the fuel charge. So the question is, What did you lack? What are you missing now? Is it courage or responsibility or both? Besides, not only fuel prices are rising, but the prices of construction products are also rising, prices of many other products are rising, but above all there are further record increases in the price of electricity. That's probably why I'm subconsciously -- a little Freudian element in all of this -- all of a sudden, you came up with the idea of announcing the year 2022 as the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the inventor of the oil lamp. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u14	Thank you. The Confederacy has six minutes and one second left. Now I would like to ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, the government is actually facing two tasks. This is a rebalancing of the fiscal and monetary policies of the country, because we have two fundamental problems: the first is debt that continues to grow against what you say, the second is inflation, which not only drains our portfolios but also consumes our savings. When I read the Budget Act, I find no answer to these two fundamental challenges, because the government, instead of caring for economic security of Poles and Poles, simply enjoys higher budget revenues. You don't even notice that you didn't make that money, you just print it, and secondly, you don't notice that the money in your budget is growing, but it's getting less and less worth it, and you don't care at all. You do not restore any balance in public finances. You forget to say that you still have two sources of debt outside Parliament's control, among other things. issue of bonds by the Polish Development Fund and issue of bonds by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Moreover, Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Minister are planning to make use of these debts outside the expenditure rule and outside the budget law. Today it is already 300 billion PLN, in the near future it will grow to 400 billion PLN. This debt outside the budget incurred by non-budget entities is guaranteed by the State Treasury, and therefore the Treasury will have to repay it. Why, then, the government is not in debt itself, it would naturally be cheaper, because the government would receive this money from the market with less margin. The answer is simple. You don't owe yourselves because you're up to it, you've been up to it for months now, you could say a few years. And prices are rising. And we already know that the cost will stay with us for a long time. Even members of the Monetary Policy Council have admitted that higher inflation is a temporary problem and will soon disappear. They changed their minds and raised their interest rates. Similarly, central bank economists who assumed that inflation would be less than 3.5% this year Next year, it's gonna fall below 3%. Do you know how much they're wearing for the next two years? 5% per year. It's still a prudential option, because I'm assuming we can go beyond those central bank economists' analyses again. You're happy to have more money, but like I said, you don't notice and you don't want to notice that this money is getting less and less worth it. The economy isn't your domain, the rip-off on our wallets. President Glapiński and Prime Minister Morawiecki, as usual, spread their hands and do not know what to do with it, and in fact they have a whole range of tools in their hands that they could use in this situation. Therefore, I have five basic tasks for you, for your entire environment. The first task, ladies and gentlemen, is a task for Prime Minister Morawiecki - to reduce the taxes charged to our gas, energy or petrol bills. These goods are not only charged with VAT, you know that, but also with excise duties, and fuel is also a fuel levy, an issue fee. In total, taxes account for up to 58% of the price of each litre of petrol. Minister, the Prime Minister, when it came down here, he once promised to reduce it. The second task for your CEO can do anything to reduce the margin. The government boasts of the high profits of Orlen every day and for these profits at the request of the Orlen government buys e.g. media companies. But let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that these higher profits of Orlen are more expensive fuel at fuel stations, so more expensive production and less profitable economy, are also higher prices in shops. After all, in fact, whether the wholesale margin or the retail margin is ultimately added to every litre of petrol at the fuel stations. The next task is for the President of Glapiński - stop weakening the zloty. This price of fuel, which I give as an example, is not a high price for a barrel of oil, because it is not the highest in history. Today it's about $80, sometimes it's 120. What really makes fuel at the gas stations so expensive today? Weak gold, because a barrel of oil is nominated in a dollar, Minister, you know very well, and a more expensive dollar is an expensive litre of fuel at a gas station. And that's how you raise prices, you raise inflation. All imports are generally more expensive because we've had a weak zloty for months. Few of this, in the long term, weak gold leads to the fact that we also grow prices of domestic goods. Simple bill, Minister. If our producers can sell more expensive for export, because weak gold is more cost-effective exports, then naturally there is a space to raise the prices of these goods on the domestic market, including goods produced by our domestic producers. What does the President of the National Bank of Poland say? In January he admitted that he was weakening the gold by buying foreign currencies. In February, he announced that further interventions weakening the gold would take place. In July we read that strengthening the gold is not a government in hand, and in September, that Poland does not really need money from the European Union, because it will print it itself, and now we hear that you want to borrow from the Chinese in yen. This is another such speculation in the performance of the National Bank of Poland. I also have an assignment for Minister Sasin who screams that he is not responsible for the gas. Minister, one question: What happened to the 6 billion PLN that affected the PGNiG account last year? This is the money you won in Stockholm in exchange for the prices raised by Russian Gazprom. But this is the money you should give to the Poles, because they paid those higher amounts of bills, and you just took them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also possible to set up a task for the Minister of Kurtyka to finally use CO2 money to build new energy sources. You're incompetent and you don't even understand it. You're hurting your country by telling yourself you're doing miracles. You can't make money, you just print it. Finally, understand that your policy is harmful to the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Gowin, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government's proposed budget law, taking into account its calculations, can unfortunately be colloquially named budget on steroids. We have received 500 pages of a wish concert, a wishing concert of the populist orchestra and a distribution run by conductors who seem not to know the notes. But I think they know them well, knowingly put those notes aside. A good budget must be based on real data. Meanwhile, the government brought hundreds of billions of PLN of debt beyond the control of the Sejm through institutions such as Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or the Polish Development Fund. As an agreement, we do not question the need to act quickly and effectively in a pandemic era. In the days of lockdowns it was necessary to support Polish entrepreneurs who could not do normal business and protect jobs in Polish companies. And then the creation of these special funds was justified. We have been actively involved in the development of anti-crisis shields ourselves. I, as Minister of Development, prepared several of them. But you can't fool citizens. The truth is that the deficit for 2022 is 70 billion more than declared by the government. To cover this, each taxpayer would have to pay income tax twice. The state - I am talking about the government, about the government camp - is whispering reality, and above all you are misleading Poles so as not to say more strongly: you are cheating Poles. [[Applause]] In addition, more than half, because about, and even more than 50 billion PLN, only in 2022, will be out of control of the Sejm. This is what all the other speakers have been paying attention to. The Government Local Investment Fund or the Government Polish Governance Fund should not be non-budget funds. This is extremely dangerous for the future. This leads to unlimited, uncontrolled debt of Poland. And it is the elected representatives of the people, the Sejm and the Senate, who should co-decide on these expenses. This money should go where it is objectively needed, regardless of party and particular preferences. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do not be afraid of transparency and start telling the truth about the state's finances. In this 500-page draft budget, only the forecast of the general government deficit-to-GDP ratio, i.e. calculated according to the EU methodology, is the only valuable information about the real state of public finances. I suggest you put quality instead of quantity. And that also applies to the tax system. Instead of 700 pages of tax changes introduced from month to month, in which entrepreneurs will have no chance to know each other, let us create a less extensive and more clear, thoughtful, simple and stable law. Mr Kowalczyk rightly said that, according to this methodology, the debt-to-GDP ratio of the EU shows a downward trend. That's the truth, Minister. But why is he showing a downward trend? Because of inflation. I mean, it's inflation that allows it, it works in favor of the government, because it allows quotes to grow out of debt. Ladies and gentlemen! This inflation is not just a huge problem for millions of citizens. She is a huge problem for the Polish economy. Why was the National Bank of Poland late? The answer is simple: because higher prices give you more money from VAT. Gasoline is more expensive for the Minister of Kościński - I welcome the Minister - this is good news, because thanks to this 20 gr from every zloty goes to the money of the Ministry of Finance. And we all know how to fix it. That's where we talked about it. The other speakers were talking about lowering the excise duty, lowering the other parataxes. Minister Kowalczyk and representatives of the government boast about improving the fate of Polish taxpayers thanks to Polish Ład. That's not true. The taxpayer will save 150 PLN per month on the Polish Lada. Then he'll go to the store or to the gas station and lose 250 zlotys. Effect - minus 100 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who's gonna lose? Who's gonna finance the Polish Load? Jan Kowalski, Maria Malinowska, you, your society. Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement cannot support this budget. Printing money is not a good idea for Poland's development, and support for this budget would be a contradiction of common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've finished our first tour. I'm declaring a time-out. 10.40. Let's try to make this system work over time. Time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 27 hours 10 min 40]] Resume session. We continue to consider items 16 and 17 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Noble, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u19	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! In a few moments, I will move on to discussing the budget, but I find it difficult not to refer at least in a few sentences to one of the speeches that included invectives, accusations, the language of aggression and the lack of elementary respect for the Polish government, which was established in a democratic procedure. The opposition has the right to criticise the government's actions, but responsible Members should be expected to be so humanly respectful, of some parliamentary class. This style of criticism should have a human face, should show your humanity. It can't be an exemplification of piss and rudeness. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! An important expenditure item in the State budget for 2022 is subsidies and grants to local government. The general subsidy for 2022 amounts to more than 72 billion PLN, exactly 72 244 487 thousand. Let us remind you how much it was at the end of the PO-PSL coalition. It was only 51.4 billion - 40% less. So the argument that the Government of Law and Justice does not care about local governments is false. The main position in the general subsidy is the educational part. In this budget it amounts to PLN 53,4 billion. It is higher than the amount of the subsidy planned in the previous year by almost 3%. It is worth reminding the High House of how education subsidies have increased since 2015. In 2015, i.e. in the last year of the PO-PSL government, the amount of education subsidy amounted to only 40.4 billion PLN, i.e. it was less than 13 billion PLN. In 2020 this subsidy increased by PLN 9 billion compared to 2015. In 2008 - the first year of the PO-PSL coalition - educational subsidy amounted to only 30.9 billion. We see the scale of the increase in educational subsidies. How does the amount of this subsidy translate into teachers' salaries? It is from this subsidy that their salaries are financed. The average teacher's salary in 2008 was PLN 3100. At present, it is about 5 thousand. zł. The tasks in the field of education and education are carried out by eight ministries, voivodships and the Culture Promotion Fund. The consolidated amount of expenditure for this purpose planned in the budget for 2022 is PLN 56 440 million. This is a record amount. It's 40%. higher than 2015. Ladies and gentlemen! An important task of the Polish state is also to achieve the objectives and objectives of the long-term scientific, scientific and technological and innovative policy of the country, as well as the tasks related to higher education. The State also supports the implementation of the instrument supporting scientific and research and development activities into Polish law. The consolidated amount of expenditure on higher education and science provided for in the Budget Law for 2022 amounts to PLN 32 850 million, of which PLN 27.3 billion has been earmarked for the management of the higher education and science system in the Act and PLN 5550 million has been secured for research for practical applications. A total of PLN 24.4 billion is planned for grants and subsidies in the state budget. PLN 1.5 billion is foreseen for the current expenditure of higher education and science budgetary units. More than PLN 1 billion we want to spend on property expenditure. Biggest position in section 730. Higher education and science represent expenditure on teaching and research activities. This is 17 billion PLN. For material aid for students and PhD students PLN 1527 million were secured, for activities of the National Science Centre - PLN 1435 million, for activities of the National Centre for Research and Development - PLN 1240 million, for programmes and projects of the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science - over PLN 450 million, for activities of the Research Network Łukasiewicz - PLN 381 million, for foreign cooperation - PLN 650 million and for activities in internationalization of science and higher education - PLN 166 million. As part of the multiannual programmes in the field of higher education and health, the following strategic tasks are planned in the budget for 2022: the construction of the campus of the Music Academy in Bydgoszcz - the cost of the entire program is PLN 290 million, including this year more than PLN 53 million; the extension of the infrastructure of the University of Warsaw - the budget for this year is planned PLN 188 million; the Medical University of Lublin, the reconstruction and expansion of the hospital - PLN 34.4 million; the Medical University of Łódź, the second stage of the construction of the Clinic-Dydactic Centre - the amount of PLN 140 million was secured, and the total cost of the project is PLN 0.25 billion; the extension of the University Hospital No.2 in Bydgoszcz - the amount of PLN 72 million and the total cost is over PLN 286 million; the Medical University of Poznań, the Clinical Hospital - the total cost of this year - the total cost of the project is PLN 50 million, and the total cost of PLN 562 million; the total cost of the University of Medical University of Warsaw, the Medical University of Medicine, the Clinical Centre, the Hospital, the Hospital Hospital Hospital of Poznań - the whole year is PLN 114 million for this year - the whole year - the whole cost of Med48 million. Such large investment in science, education and health has so far not been in the last few years. Thank you very much. [[But don't be silly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u20	Thank you. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The reading of the statement of reasons for the Budget Act, but also the analysis of budgetary revenue, clearly indicates that the most important thing in terms of economic growth and budgetary revenue for your governments was and there is private consumption, let us remind you: private consumption driven by credit, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said at informal meetings. The effect - the debt exceeded PLN 1.5 billion. In 2020, consumption fell significantly, in your opinion, by reducing administrative and mobility during the pandemic, but that is not true or half-truth. Fear, uncertainty of tomorrow, concerns about work, about wages, about future income have slowed down consumption in 2020, too. In 2021 consumption reflected, saved economic growth and increased tax revenues, in your opinion again a quote from the justification - by restoring the normal functioning of the economy, including the conditions for purchasing. You're also talking about the good mood of consumers that favours shopping. Both aren't true. Consumption didn't just bounce because inflation started eating savings. Inflationary expectations caused a real shopping frenzy. It's the fear that drives this consumption. As a result, not only does the savings rate decrease, but also the savings themselves decrease. It is worth recalling here the declarations by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki concerning the construction of savings of Polish households. It was supposed to be a priority on your target list, and it came out as always with your goals, which is less, and in this case more means less, and in fact the opposite, as with Orwell. The year 2022 is supposed to be the continuation of this policy. The budget for 2022 is a shadowed budget, which is already a different category of fear. It's a fear of your governments. [[Applause]] You're assuming a further increase in consumption and a drop in the savings rate. This is supposed to be driving power and economic growth, and tax revenue. But the key to this success is an expensive+ program. At the same time, inflation forecasts supported by NBP authority - I apologize for the language - a pound of lint worth, is 4.3% in 2021 and 3.3% in 2022. Does anyone in this room, including the Minister, believe that? For this purpose, forecasts of interest rates and exchange rates. It's a land of mosses and ferns, fairy tales no one believes in anymore. Inflation, weakening of the gold - you say: it is not our fault, it is external factors or, as we heard from Deputy Prime Minister Sasin yesterday, it is the terrible European Union. But that's another one that's not true. It's the government that drives inflation. That's what NBP President Adam Glapiński said a few months ago. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in rematch decided that the NBP's response was late. It is difficult to disagree with one statement or another. They're both right. Only Deputy Prime Minister Sasin was wrong? No, he's running away from responsibility as usual. He, as the supervisor of the State Treasury companies, also has a stake in this cost. The growing costs of operating companies, feeding families and people of PiS, [[Applause]] failed investments, lack of supervision of investments such as Ostrołęka, Jaworzno, for which we also pay price increases, tax increases, new taxes, ever higher charges - these are really important inflationary impulses. We're keeping a list of PiS shame. It covers more than 40 items. [[Applause]] And let me remind you that you said you wouldn't raise taxes. New ones come to this list: an additional linear income tax called health contribution, [[Applause]] minimum tax, practical elimination of the tax card, increased charges in the property rental sector. Excise - not only indexing, but also additional growth. All of this takes place in an atmosphere of deviation from respect for acquired rights and legal certainty. You did not see that tax shifting is one of the basic economic rules, but you do not see that tax growth is not just an increase in prices. If you could use tools like this. Welfare analysis, an analysis of social well-being, would know that the effect of tax growth is not only an additional revenue of the budget, but also a loss of the consumer and the loss of the producer, the loss of entrepreneurs. At the same time, budgetary revenue does not fully compensate for these losses. There's the so-called one. irreparable loss of the consumer, who can buy less with his money, and who does not find coverage in the revenue budget loss of the producer resulting from the inefficient use of resources. In fact, we're going down, we're going down. This is a reduction in the efficiency of management. You guys do it all the time for a good cause. These aren't one-off moves. You can't see it because you can only see ad hoc profits. Inflation drives tax revenue. Similarly, there is a decrease in investment, because there is no refund of VAT. Almost as bad as it gets, the better. [[Applause]] In this context, success propaganda related to the sealing of the tax system is getting weaker and weaker. I will only remind you of our flagship project from 2015: Central Register of Invoices. The work that has been ongoing since the end of 2015 on this key project is inefficiencies and inefficiencies+. We are faced with unprecedented negligence, failure to deal with tax fraud. Enough of that, these omissions could have been intentional. I already told you about it from that bleacher. The delays in the implementation of this project are somehow strangely connected with the emergence in MF of the most important tax cells, [[Applause]] who organized a VAT fraud mafia in MF. This would not be possible, and there is no doubt that this would have been the case if the CRF had operated. The company was set up Critical Applications in a hurry, because this solution was supposed to give 3 billion a month. It's been six years. [[There isn't.]] To sum up, in the longer term, the highest inflation in Europe, the lowest investment rate, based on consumption growth with a decreasing savings rate - that is cutting the branch on which we Poles sit. Because the PiS government is feeding off. It's eating your own tail. As we add to the conflict with the European Union and the suspension of KPOs, it seems more and more to me that your plan, with which you have taken power, is being implemented. Remember your 2015 target? Poland in ruins. That's what you want to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u22	Thank you. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u23	Minister! You did it again. Again, you bring a budget to the Parliament, which is simply a mockery of the staff of the budget. You set the payroll fund in such a way that he'll be eaten by the cost of his life in no time. Last year, you found an excuse to tighten your seat belt, it was a COVID crisis, but today you're bragging about a good macro situation. Then why are you hitting the workers again? This is really not fair to the people on whom the Polish state stands. But it's also very silly and shortsighted, because you've already triggered these decisions of social protests. Private court workers have already rebelled, probation officers. The National Tax Administration is boiling. There could be a strike in the ZUS in a minute. Half the budget is preparing for protests, and you're bringing a budget that's actually a spit in the face of budget workers. What you've been doing for years has led to a situation where for many budget workers, the only hope of raising is to raise the minimum wage. But even that minimum wage you didn't want to raise seriously. The OPZZ has made a very modest proposal to take account of the increase in life costs, and you are actually giving 6 PLN above the statutory minimum. It's just a joke about the employees. Yesterday, Minister, I walked right next door. At the crossroads square, court assistants protest. Desperate people made the town there and they say very clearly and openly that people no longer want to work in courts for that money, that this is no longer possible. This is no longer possible - say more and more professional groups. Talk to your own subordinates from the National Tax Administration. You'll hear the same thing. This country's just gonna split up. The institutions that depend on the operation of millions of people cease to work because there is no one to work in them. And that's history and ZUS, and IRS, and a lot of other places. Every day someone leaves work there and it's hard to be surprised, because the money that the Polish state pays today is simply hard to survive. You said yourself, Minister, that the macro situation is good. I agree with you because we're rational and we're looking at numbers. But since economic development should be followed by social development, there should be state repair and public service repair. And that's not there. What did you use that money for? You guys throw that money in the mud a lot. You lower corporate taxes, you suck up, you don't know why in this situation macros, financial markets. You're finally building some spectacular, ridiculous monuments. We talked about the Saski Palace here a while ago. Now you want to drown more billions in a wall that doesn't really solve any of our problems. In addition, you insult people, yourself, the Council of Ministers, by raising their salaries very clearly. Minister! The state is not walls, nor are the state palaces. This country is people and the work of these people depends on whether this country is working. But you clearly do not want to understand it, so the Polish state with such a budget will operate worse and worse. Of course, the Left will not agree to such treatment of budget workers. We demand 12%. raises for budget workers, and we will not, of course, support this anti-worker budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u24	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski from the Polish Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u25	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to discuss the part of the agricultural budget. For agriculture, namely KRUS, agricultural markets, rural development or fishing, from the national budget, the European Union will be allocated PLN 57.2 billion. Compare this to the amount from 2015 - PLN 55.6 billion. When you took power in 2016 - PLN 54 billion, PLN 44.4 billion in 2017, PLN 47.5 billion in 2019 - PLN 48.2 billion in 2020 - PLN 50.3 billion increased by PLN 600 million in September for the fight against ASF, for insurance. At record prices of fuel, fertilisers, electricity, agricultural inputs, in the absence of cost-effectiveness, raging ASF pandemics or avian influenza without adequate support, the effects of the cost will affect consumption and consumers. Between 2016 and 2021 for 5 years you took over PLN 37 billion from the Polish village. I ask here: Is this the way to show concern for the countryside and agriculture? How does this apply to the president's speech on Saturday, the whole PiS hypocritical festival we watched last Saturday? How's it gonna be okay? What money and why so little? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u26	Thank you. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We are discussing the draft budget assumptions, the draft budget for 2022. It must be acknowledged that the last year has been one of the strangest of the past years in terms of public finances, state finances. The draft budget for 2022, which is presented by the government, shows some kind of specific upheaval, one might say: the depravity of this government, which is that indeed the whole sphere of any government policy, the state policy is drawn beyond the budgetary sphere, beyond parliamentary control. Look. This is a graph showing the increase in debt beyond parliamentary control. The financial instruments created by Prime Minister Morawiecki are shown here, which cause debt to rise rapidly since 2019. Next year it's gonna be okay. PLN 350 billion of additional debt, rising outside of Parliament's control. Forecast: 2025 is as much as PLN 400 billion. A simple comparison in terms of these amounts. The estimated PLN 400 billion for 2025 is PLN 2 000. The annual budgets of the municipality of Końskie are 270 national stadiums, 5300 Pendolino trains, an average wage paid over 6.5 million years. This is a creative development of the method still used by Minister Rostowski, Minister in the government of Donald Tusk, because he created the first such financial vehicle. I don't know if anyone else remembers the name: Polish Development Investments. Members of the PiS jury criticized it. They criticized the increase in government debt that the government of Donald Tusk was fleeing the budgetary sphere in terms of the organisation of public finances. Today, what Matthew Morawiecki's government is doing, what you are doing, Minister, is developing this action on an unprecedented scale. And here I resent the opposition from the left, from the Civic Coalition: there is so much talk about the fact that democracy is at stake in Poland. The issue of courts is not trivial, but the real democratic deficit is Parliament's lack of control over expenditure. What is currently being developed by the government under the pretext of the COVID fund, because the biggest budget item in the last year was the COVID fund, it is not a fight against COVID-19. For example, the Government Local Investment Fund came in. So these are the expenses that the government directs to the local level, which are often authorised by local Members of the PiS, presenting as their benefits. What does this have to do with COVID-19? There's nothing. On the other hand, the opposition, as I understand it, excludes itself under the pretext of the COVID in the state of sanitary state of emergency authorized by this pro-government opposition from the left benches, from the platformer benches, an opposition which is not authentic, because it does not look closely at the state's finances and agrees to sanitary segregation, agrees to the violation of civil rights. Democracy must be defended here, because this Parliament and the entire budgetary procedure described in the Constitution make no sense if most of the rigid expenditure is in the budget and most of the free expenditure is directed by the government to funds which it manages in an opaque, non-transparent way, except for any control. So we can quote these amounts for next year: income - PLN 480 billion, expenditure - PLN 500 billion, deficit - PLN 30 billion. So what if it's really just a piece of budget policy. It is also worth noting that the last financial year was the year during which extraordinary expenditure was made: 100% COVID allowances in health care. The inflation has been started or has rather been developed by various economic factors - we will not be entering the analysis at the moment - to the highest levels for many years, but there is no increase in wage expenditure in the whole public sector. Moreover, not only is there no growth, but there is no growth plan. It was also raised by my previous speakers. If the government allows increased inflation, if the government keeps raising taxes, if the government increases debt, increases expenditure, and thus gives a whole bunch of these pro-inflationary impulses, then it should probably have some plan to increase wages in the public sector. Unless we simply agree that only people who have not found a place in the market will work in this public sector and we simply agree to the gradual degradation of the state. Are you guys okay with this? I don't think so. You guys are okay with this? Minister, do you agree to this? Where's the plan for some reasonable increase in wages to keep up with inflation for government officials, for state services, for rescue? How is that, for example? The marine rescue service will only have increased wages as a result of our amendment? How is it that, in many other matters, Members of the opposition must ask for advice? Is it really out of 2,000? or more employees of the Ministry of Finance cannot be separated from the three-member department, which will plan, what will the path of salary increase in the public sector keeping up with inflation look like? The second thing we've been raising all year is tax changes. It cannot be that on the one hand it turns out that there are several tens of billions at the end of the year of excess money, and on the other hand one-man business activity - here we tighten the screw. We make cons - from those who are engaged in legitimate activities - crooks. Farms, meat exports, processing plants, slaughterhouses, slaughterhouses - we delegalize them because that's the demand. We say: you have run a legitimate business in line with EU standards, but now it will not be legal. And then -- wait, wait, we're going back because the polls have changed, hola, hola, but there's not gonna be a five for animals. Minister! Someone has to stand guard of the interests of our entire financial sector. Who wouldn't like you? Please really think about these issues: simple, low taxes - the Confederation's recipe - control of expenditure here in Parliament. Even if you set up some extraordinary funds, bring these funds here to Parliament, have a debate, talk about it, and you don't hide these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u28	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Richard Galla, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u29	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At this session of the Sejm, we begin the process of the Government's draft budget law for 2022. I think that for weeks in committees, also in plenary, we will have an impact on the final shape of this document. I hope that this effect will be satisfactory for all of us and, above all, for our citizens, because the budget will, however, cover different areas of our daily lives. Therefore, I would like to address some of the issues covered in this budget, and I will start with the first theme, which is the local government, which is the local government. Here President Noblet quoted huge amounts, billions of zlotys, which go to local governments, including as part of education grants, and I have been signaling from this speaker for many years the increasingly difficult financial situation of local governments. The budgets of local governments, especially in small municipalities, are getting worse. It is often the case that local authorities are wondering what to do or whether to introduce a recovery programme, because that is what regional clearing houses suggest. This indicates that the cost of the day-to-day maintenance of the municipalities is increasing and that there is a lack of resources on the income side. I must also mention here the situation that took place at the beginning of October, when we amended two laws, the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, so-called. Polish Lad. We know that, in connection with these laws, there will also be a significant reduction in revenue or participation in income from PIT or CIT, especially PIT, which concerns municipal authorities, because the introduction of this 30 thousandth tax relief will certainly also be felt in the budgets of municipalities. I would like to give an example of this educational subsidy that Mr Noblet mentioned here, an example of a small community. The municipality, which receives over PLN 5 million of education subsidies, must add nearly PLN 4 million to this education. So these are really very difficult situations, which cause that often in these municipalities there is a lack of funds for investment, for development, even if they are subsidised or can be subsidised by EU funds, because it is necessary to make an own contribution. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, because in discussions with your employees I have learned that these issues will be taken into account. Question: "To what extent?" We have tried to calculate it in my community and it turns out that it will not be so pink, it will not grow or maintain the situation this year, and it will even be worse. The second area to which I would like to address - this may already be more optimistic - is part 43: Religious confessions and national minorities. It is particularly about the amounts that are dedicated to national minorities. As you know, I come from this environment. I see a positive situation here, Mr Kowalczyk; I think that my voice from the speaker had some effect on this, because we have an increase of more than PLN 2 million. This is very optimistic, for which I would like to thank the Ministry in particular, because I think this is at the expense of spending in the Ministry itself. I hope that this example will be repeated also in the following years. Thank you for all this. The next area, which I have also mentioned many times, is the voivod's budgets in the parts concerning the protection of monuments and funds for the maintenance of monument conservation offices. In this area we also see some improvement, but I would like to draw attention again to the large disparities between voivodships. Ladies and gentlemen, these disparities reach even a dozen million zlotys. Let me give you an example: the smallest budget is less than 4 million and the largest budget is over 15.5 million. I think, however, it would be worth leaning over the criteria, if these criteria exist at all. I see you're already discussing with the former voivode. Mr. Voivodeship, I can say with full conviction that there are no criteria, there is only a historical past which makes the one with a large budget even bigger, and the one with a small one still has a small one. That is why I would like to appeal to return to this issue and try to verify these issues, because the needs in these offices are very large. Requirements are made by monument conservationists, and in fact few monument conservationists have enough resources to carry out these tasks. The next topic concerns Part 22: Water management. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the way these funds are spent in the context of the control of NIK, which was carried out years ago, as well as to the current information that appears in the media regarding the functioning of the Polish Water Company. Pay attention to that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u30	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Zdzisław Sipera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First case I'm gonna start with. There is a certain reference to the wording that results from the implementation of the budget at present. In other words, we are doing something that is the first reading of the budget. We talk about great politics and often do not refer to facts. The Civic Platform is a master in misrepresentation and misrepresentation of facts and figures, and that is why, as I hear about the fact that - well, I don't know what to call it - the dull economist manages the budget or the state, I wonder what should be called the previous finance minister, Mrs. I leave it to your intelligence, as to what to call it, when we have always had information about the fact that there is no money and never will be, and let the Poles put aside the dreams of money for the future at all. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, to assess whether the budget is developing, whether it is a stagnation budget or a recession budget. We have development budgets. I understand that it hurts you to think that we're developing you, not rolling you down. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And now a few concrete figures and very important elements, because I will talk about public security of the state, internal borders, external borders and what Poles appreciate very much - which is the result of all research - and what they want to be assured. The amount foreseen for public administration, which manages each country and in a normal country must function well, in our issue next year is planned to amount to almost PLN 19 billion. All the most important central offices of Poland are included here. These measures shall ensure their normal functioning. Nobody has any means that could be a dangerous element in their functioning. So there is no problem here, in my opinion. By the way, I am the head of the Civil Service Council myself on the issue of appointments, and next year 245 new members are expected to join civil service in Poland. The second important thing concerns this administration, which deals with internal and public security. For the total expenditure in this section we provide for an amount of almost PLN 18 billion plus expenditure on the very important elements that you have been talking about. You have raised these issues when you say it is negative. It's about the funds provided for, for example, to support the police, which was well assessed by the opposition, public security organization, support for Border Guard, PSP, Armed Forces, central vehicle records, compensation for the property. These are well-functioning funds that have worked well in practice and which are absolutely fulfilling their tasks. What do Poles expect? They expect, as I said, to prevent and reduce crime, to combat corruption and terrorist threats, to ensure the security of external borders, to prevent and mitigate the effects of natural disasters, to act well on the public guard of this state and on the voluntary basis, and to prevent and eliminate disasters. Overall, consolidated expenditure in these departments in 2021 will amount to almost PLN 24 billion, including among others. for the protection of public order - almost 15 billion, prosecution of crimes, and here is the prosecutor's office - almost 3 billion, the fire protection system. and the population - 3689 and crisis management - almost PLN 0.4 billion. Now some information about national defense. This is, ladies and gentlemen, primarily part of the implementation of the Polish commitment. Here I refer to the repeated statements of representatives of the opposition who said: The European Union must keep promises and agreements. Yes, we do, ladies and gentlemen - not like some members. We're keeping it. 2.2% GDP goes to national defence. President Kowalczyk spoke about this. These are the expenses we should bear so that Europe and Poland are safe. Playing an element of this kind, that if we didn't buy something now, it would be better somewhere else, is playing on emotions. Besides, you guys are really great at playing your emotions right now. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] These are the responsibilities we have to perform. Ladies and gentlemen, the total amount to be spent next year on national defence is almost PLN 58 billion. It is divided into expenditures of almost PLN 19 billion for investment expenditure, almost PLN 18 billion for personal expenditure, as well as amounts for other expenditures that are incurred, material expenditure, etc. I will mention the priorities set out in this section, which are quite concrete: technical modernisation of the army, strengthening the operational capacity of the operational units deployed in the east of the country, increasing the number of Polish Armed Forces, creating conditions for increasing the presence of the US troops in Poland, building structures and building operational capacity of the territorial defence units, forming structures and building operational capacity of the Cyber Defence Forces, implementing the process of training the Polish armed forces, including in particular as part of national and international exercises and trainings, increasing the capacity of the Military Health Service to combat and combat epidemic threats. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the elements that have also occurred in the discussion I am listening to, I am very surprised by one thing here. The speech of the former Deputy Prime Minister who raised the issue that his formation would not vote in favour of the budget because it was the distribution budget. Interesting. As Deputy Prime Minister, he was always in favour of even more money for COVID funds, among others. when he was responsible. Today, when he's not in the government anymore, it turns out he's not. This budget is the distribution budget. [[But he's your friend. Now it's out.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just talking about a certain philosophy of budgeting. Law and Justice are consistent from the very beginning. We found the money, the money goes into the budget. And that money... [[What do you mean? In our pockets.]] Mrs. Member! Will you learn not to scream? Madame, I would really like to ask you. Will you learn a certain personal culture? [[Yes, sir, I have it bigger than you because you're not lying.]] You teach everyone. The platform teaches all culture, level, and constantly there is screaming, screaming and brawl. Mrs... Therefore, among others. I'm talking about the kind of example that changes are, as they say politically. First you create years whole, like the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government, and for a moment, when you are together, there is a different approach at all. Yes? What's that? That's the truth. Isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we stress that there is money in the budget. I am absolutely glad that I am in a formation which is developing Poland in a really difficult situation as quickly as possible. We only hear from the state: We ruled in difficult times. Well, of course PiS rules in fantastic good times, right? There's a time for what it is. Citizens have given us power and we are using it to do what is important, so we are trying to do it as quickly as possible. As regards the elements relating to a very important topic raised by Mr Zandberg and by some present, namely the budget issue. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this needs to be changed, but we're changing it, too. Excuse me, honourable Member, how many years have you kept zero? How many years have you kept zero? The budget didn't get anything. Why? First of all, because it was a difficult situation, right? Have you always had a difficult situation? [[Applause]] And I hear you've developed this country very strongly. Inconsistencies, scaring Poles, speaking false, insulting the Prime Minister, etc. - that's your approach to the budget. You weren't talking about specifics. You were only talking about emotions and scaring Poles. Rather, law and justice are trying to operate in concrete terms, and we are seeing these needs that Poles are reporting, and they are in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u32	Thank you. I invite Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's teacher's day. I would like to give them the good news on this solemn day. Unfortunately, I don't have good news. The budget for 20212022 is terrible for them. The rapporteur was pleased to announce: Everyone is much richer. Yes, sir. The Poles and Poles know who you mean. I'll try to ask, too. By saying that everyone is much richer, did you mean your colleagues, all your relatives and friends of PiS Members, or perhaps fat cats that even President Kaczyński did not defeat and the resolution taken by the members of the PiS Party? [[Applause]] The increase in salaries certainly does not apply to teachers. But it concerns you! You guys know how to take care of your salaries. Nothing will change for teachers. There will be no increases for them since January, because the base amount has been frozen, but the minimum wage will increase for all, so more teachers' wages will be lower than the minimum wage. What do you call authority that treats teachers that way? One sentence to Minister Piontkowski. I don't see him here, but you'll probably hand him over. Minister! The fact that the vast majority of teachers earn more than the minimum wage is no reason to be proud. It's a shame and a disgrace. The Minister shouldn't be happy about this. [[Applause]] You're predicting a raise for teachers, so I tried to look for that money in the budget. The same Minister Piontkowski said that there should be 100 PLN per teacher, i.e. 1 billion PLN in the budget, i.e. in my opinion there should be 14 billion PLN in this budget. I don't see 14 billion zlotys in the budget. There's no such thing. Now I think you're following what the classic said about you. The people will buy everything. [[Dark.]] And according to this message, you have come up with a devil's plan, which is to raise your salary, to introduce eight free card hours and raise your teacher's salary, and you have included a salary for oversized hours. The money's gonna be fine. You won't have to pay anything. You will be able to say that the basic salary of teachers will increase. People will be happy, and the teacher will have the same amount in his wallet as today, only he will work more. [[Applause]] By the way, Minister Czarnek will fire the insubordinates. Some will go away alone. You can't work in four schools and combine jobs in four schools. And raising the penny will make the teacher have to look for this job in five or six schools. Some teachers will simply resign, and some teachers according to lex Czarnek will be fired, and I suppose they will be those who are humble, who disagree with Minister Czarnek's ideological line. Now let's take another look at the numbers. You're proud of the big money on education. This indicator is GDP. In 2015, the subsidy represented 2,24% GDP. Do you know how much it's going to be in 2022? Less than 2%. This is your care for education. This is your care for teachers. In 2015, the subsidy covered 63% educational expenditure in local governments. Now it covers less than 56% And next year it's gonna be even less. The rapporteur or PiS Member boasted 13 billion growth over 7 years, 7 years of prosperity. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the Platform, the subsidy increased by more than 12 billion, and this was other money, it was a different budget. What are you bragging about? That inflation ate your 13 billion? Look and count. And look again... How many years are you in charge? [[Voice from the room: 6.]] 2022 will be the seventh year of your reign. [[We're not done yet. Math.]] When we left school, it was 40 billion. Now you're proposing 53. That's 13 billion. How is this up to 12 billion Civic Platform 7 years ago? Can you count? Can you count? [[Applause]] And one more thing about teachers' salaries. Read the report of scientists from the University of Warsaw. After 1999, teachers' wages once increased significantly. Do you know when that was? Between 2008 and 2012. Don't fool the teachers. Put your arrogance and your shoe in your pocket. Start counting and respect people in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u34	Thank you, Member. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis, will speak at the moment. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft budget law submitted to the High House for 2022 assumes an increase in expenditure in the educational part of the general subsidy compared to the previous year by only 2.6%. Given the galloping inflation, this slight increase constitutes a de facto valorisation of the previous amount of education aid, and so significantly underestimated. Significantly, in the explanatory memorandum of the Act there is not even a word about increases for teachers, so loudly announced by the Minister of Education and Science. The announcements sounded beautiful, and it ended as usual. Instead of increases - longer working time. Instead of delivering on the words given in 2019 by the Minister on the link between teachers' salaries and average earnings in the economy - unfulfilled promises and conflicts, in which this time the ideas of the Minister of Education and Science oppose not one, not two trade unions, but together the Polish Teachers' Union, educational Solidarity and the Trade Union Forum. Returning to the clearly underestimated amount of subsidies, it is worth recalling that for years it has not been possible for local governments to finance their educational tasks. The education gap is about PLN 30 billion. This shows that subsidy is simply not an adequate source of funding for education, and this draft budget does not change anything about it. It does not respond to the calls of local governments, which have been alarming for many years that forcing them to carry out an increasing number of educational tasks commissioned by the government does not go hand in hand with a proportionate increase in the funding of these actions from the state budget. A good example here is the issue of actual co-financing by local authorities of the reform of teachers' salaries from 2019, which the central government has committed itself to. The additional funding of the education subsidy then allowed to finance an increase in salaries of only around 70%. The remaining amount had to be replenished by local authorities. As a Left, we will make amendments that will provide real funding for educational tasks from the state budget. We can no longer shift this burden to local governments. We will also take into account teacher increases in our amendments. It is an absolute disgrace to the government and the state, when the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski without a shadow of embarrassment, and even with some pride states that most teachers earn more than the minimum national level. This means that there are teachers among teachers who earn below the minimum, and that the Minister of Education does not see the slightest problem. This situation is unacceptable. Education workers deserve not only respect and wishes for the Teacher's Day - which, of course, on behalf of the entire Left Club, I heartily make for them today - but above all for decent wages. And these worthy wages of the teachers of the Left will always be claimed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u36	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget law shows that the projected increase in healthcare expenditure is fictional. It is, of course, the calculation of GDP, which has already been mentioned several times here. The Minister of Finance in the introduction to the budget law did not say a word about the health system, which was extremely thoroughly tested by the pandemic, and patients - very experienced. If the government strategy that the prime ministers and ministers were talking about is aimed at improving the health system, this should be reflected in this Budget Act. Many times PiS MEPs have said that the budget is developmental. So tell me where it is developing in the health part. After a year of pandemics and related collapses in the health system, all Poles expected our government to radically increase the expenditure on the area that is the most important for all of us. The Prime Minister talked about a huge budget surplus in the middle of the year. I ask: Does this health budget reflect the Prime Minister's words, or was it just a fanfare? After a year of severe pandemic experiences, in which many of us did not get into the doctor and spent huge money out of their own pockets in private offices, we all expect a proper response from the government in the health section of the budget. The Medical Fund. I would like to pay particular attention here to this issue, which has brought to very many Poles living. Since this fund was created to help the most ill, with rare, oncological diseases, but above all children, we should use it. Yeah, this fund was supposed to be used by the sick, and I think the president was the only one who benefited because he won the election on his propaganda. What does the National Oncology Federation say? The Medical Fund has not improved access to treatment according to the latest medical knowledge. For the treatment of children, only PLN 110 million were allocated from the Medical Fund, for treatment abroad - PLN 36 million, and for access to drug technologies - PLN 25 million. For very expensive, innovative therapies were not spent with this fund or with a zloty. There was also no expenditure on prevention or modernisation of hospitals. Will that improve, Minister, this year? What kind of guarantee do you give in the budget that the Medical Fund will finally work? Many people collect money at various kinds of fundraisers to save their children, to treat them abroad. After all, this fund was supposed to be built so that we could avoid situations like this, so that at least by going through the Internet, we wouldn't have to come across another fundraiser every minute. This budget lacks answers to the fundamental problems of the Polish health system, such as access to new generation medicines, support for the pharmaceutical industry, the development of transplant medicine and many, many other issues. Because of the limited time of my club, I can't talk about more issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski, not associated. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Fellow Members! Inflation and expensive - expensive and inflation. That's the motto of your budget, Minister. These words should take place instead of a dot after each sentence, and sub-words should separate from each other instead of commas. It's a budget about inflation and cost. Every budget serves something. In many countries, this has been the case in Poland, they have served to improve the quality of public services or support some segment of the economy. Why does the budget in Poland serve? Well, some time ago you said that you meant to restore the dignity of Poles. You understood it in purely financial terms, because not in metaphorical terms. Poles, very many Poles by you are spit on in the media by you controlled. But let's leave this part. What instruments did you have to use? Did you really develop the Polish economy, or did you increase its production capacity? No. Because the level of investment of companies has been minimal since you took power. Mrs. Marshal! I'd ask for time, 'cause I don't know how much time I have left. Well, you were actually using the instruments that your predecessors had developed. Firstly, the quality of this great sign, which is Poland, its credibility in the world. And you owe and you owe in a completely obscene way. At the moment when you have expanded your debt to monstrous size - today it amounts to about PLN 1500 billion - additionally, you are still in debt outside the budget in Bank Gospodarki Krajowej or in the Polish Development Fund. Even today, when we are threatened with losing funds from the European Union, you are planning to issue bonds in China. Is that true, Minister? In the yuan. Excellent direction. But if you are no longer able to borrow, then you went for the money of those who still have it in Poland, or middle class. She's the main victim of your budget, her and the local government. Self-governments who still have money that still have the ability to carry out their tasks will also lose because of you. This is what happens in conditions of centralization, nepotism, gigantic corruption, political corruption. But this is not the final picture of the effect of your financial and economic policy, because there is a group that has gained in Poland. That's who you were talking about, the president of Jarosław Kaczyński, calling her the new elite. I understand he had a reminiscence from his youth reading behind his head. Once Milovan Djilas wrote a new class, which describes you, even though it was written in 1957 and even though it concerned communist cameramen from Yugoslavia, and really from the whole Eastern block. He was there describing exactly the same mechanisms that this country is increasing your wealth and your families today. [[Applause]] This great picture of increasing the financial growth of people who are not wealthy in Poland was ruined when data appeared that the extent of poverty of Polish families in Poland has increased during your governments. [[Voice from the room: How can you say that?]] Why? Discuss with the Central Statistical Office, not me. Why? Because you introduced the biggest tax next to the dozens of taxes which are in Poland and which eat money from Poles. You've introduced inflationary tax. Well, go to the market, go to the market in Grodzisk Mazowiecki, Pruszkow, Sandomierz, anywhere in Poland where you live, and ask people what their problem is. Well, this budget will only increase these problems, because it will make inflation bigger and more expensive, and this goal of increasing, raising and restoring the dignity of Poles will be ruined. And you will be responsible for that. That is why I believe that anyone who has the good of Poland, the Polish economy, the Polish development in this House should vote against this budget. I will vote against this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Five minutes... No, it's okay. Good. In that case, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the draft State budget for 2022 for health protection. Why: Do I have the honour? Since the health system is one of the key areas of modern state development, the fight against COVID has strengthened this belief. I am also honoured because the Government of the United Right was the first in a comprehensive way to address the problem of medical care in Poland and on an unprecedented scale to increase the expenditure on health protection and to take measures to improve the health safety of Poles. [[Applause]] Poles deserve a modern health system and therefore we have been constantly fighting the negligence of our predecessors since 2015. Between 2011 and 2015 expenditure on health care increased - you like to use percentages, I will allow you to report amounts - about 9,5 billion PLN, i.e. 14%. [[Applause]] In the same five-year-old age, they increased by nearly 50%. [[Applause]] At the end of the PO-PSL coalition, in 2014, the expenditure on health protection amounted to PLN 72 billion. The systematic increase in spending over the coming years under the rule of law and justice already allowed it to exceed PLN 100 billion in 2020 and amounted to PLN 107 billion. In 2021 it was 120 billion PLN. That's 5.3%. GDP. What's the plan for 2022? Because that's what we're talking about here today. The plan for 2022 for health protection is PLN 133.6 billion, or 5.75% GDP. It's close, High Isbo, 80% more than what was planned in 2015, for your governments. 80% More. Can you distinguish between these numbers: PLN 133.6 billion and PLN 72 billion or PLN 74 billion? I get the impression after today, not just today, the debate that you can't see the difference between two digits, so much difference. [[Numbers, if anything.]] And why can't you see the difference? Because your eyes obscure your whites - the whites of hatred for this government, the whites of lies and the desire to take over power as soon as possible. And that's the truth. [[Applause]] You don't care about the fate of Poles. You showed how much you cared about health care. You also showed me how you were sealing the tax system. Today I am amazed at what I hear from the Member: that this is all yours. I've carefully analysed all of your activities in this area. Even if there were legal proposals, they were in drawers for years or then you pulled out of them. So that, God, I ask for at least a little justice and self-criticism from you, because there really is no word for how often you use such statements here. Shame on you for doing this. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill... The year 2022-133.6 billion PLN, i.e. 80% more than in 2015 for health care and more than 13 billion more than in the previous year, 2021. I therefore also ask your PSL Members who are here and who say that there are no indications in the budget that you are concerned about financing health protection. First of all, take a look at the budget. Take a look at a few tables, instead of making opinions like that here. So-called. Act 7% GDP adopted under the Polish Government will achieve the value of public expenditure on health protection at 7% as early as 2027, that is, we are approaching the level that is taking place on average in the countries of the European Union. Expenditure, public funds, I stress, are on average 7% of public health funds there. With great steps, if society and Poles allow and God allows, we approach this level. Next line. A consistent increase in health care costs increases the availability of medical services, equips hospitals with modern equipment, but above all allows us to increase the level of pay. Between 2015, the year of your governments and 2020 the increase in salaries under the employment contract is as follows: a doctor with a second degree of specialisation in 2020 earns 13 643 PLN gross. This is an increase of PLN 5628, which is 70% compared to 2015. Doctor with the first degree of specialization - PLN 10 847, that is an increase of PLN 4061, approx. 60% in relation to what you have given to doctors in your governments. Doctor without specialization - 8620 zł, more than 64% More. Specialized nurses - 6574 zł, by more than 69% More. Other nurses and midwives - PLN 6129, 80% increase. Medical paramedics 5047, over 73% increase. Other people without higher education - 4077, an increase of more than 45%. Of course, these increased expenses allowed the current government to increase the number of places in medical school. In this respect, you have done nothing. Between 2014 and 2015 there were 5500 places in medical studies, in the current academic year there are more than 10,000 places, an increase of 50%. The first year of increased recruitment provided by the Law and Justice Government will be completed in 2022 and will take up specialization in 2023. I hope that the situation in this area will improve significantly. We also increased the number of nursing schools accredited by the Minister of Health from 74 universities in 2014 to 107 in 2020, 33 universities more. Ladies and gentlemen, this resulted in a significant increase in the number of nurses studying in the second degree, the level of specialisation. This is the increase from 6000, 6700 in 2014 to 8200 in 2020 and 7042 in the second year of specialisation. We have introduced a number of incentives to work in the profession of doctor and nurse in the territory of the Republic of Poland in institutions in contact with NFZ-et, among others. supplement to the salary of PLN 600.700 per month at the stage of specialization training or the death loan for students working in public health care after completing their studies in Poland. We have increased by 30% the funding for medical rescue compared to 2015. Since 1 July 2021, we have introduced a minimum wage regulation in the healthcare sector, which has increased the remuneration of various occupational groups, with around 250 000 benefits. persons. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also introduced the National Cardiology Network, which has produced very good results in terms of heart disease and piloting the National Oncology Network. There is financial support for research teams from Polish universities and hospitals on medicines and vaccines to protect against further virus mutations. We have implemented e-services, lifted limits for specialist doctors, eliminating the basic barrier to access to specialist doctors. There are prevention programs, mainly free access to diagnostics for 40+ people, previously free medicines for 75+ people, whose range is expanding more and more, for pregnant women, etc. Coming back, ladies and gentlemen, to the budget for 2022 and part 46, which is at the disposal of the Minister of Health, I would like to say that, in general terms, as I mentioned, health protection amounting to 133.6 billion, i.e. by 13 billion more than in 2021, in part 46 we have planned, which Mr PSL has not seen, 14 886 million, i.e. 23.7% more than in 2021. Here are the most planned measures in the section: Health care. And you said there were no heights. Well, ladies and gentlemen, under this heading in heading 851: Health care has 12 billion of these 14. And so: internships and medical specializations - 3 million with a large piece, an increase of 857 million, health policy programmes - by 31 million more than last year, i.e. 1433 million PLN, clinical and general hospitals - an increase of 130 million, medical rescue - an increase of 56 million, highly specialised services - planned 220 million, public blood services, etc. The increase in spending on higher education is 306 million to 2237 million. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need a lot of goodwill to look at these numbers and approach their assessment simply objectively, what do they point out? Therefore, at the end of my speech, I can assure you of this type of policy and its continuation, and the consequences very strongly point to the experience with the health and budgetary policies of our government so far, that Poles can be sure that the policy of increasing the remuneration of medical staff, modernising and modernising infrastructure in healthcare facilities, developing modern technologies in this area will continue, is the Hospital Modernization Fund, reforming hospitals so that some of them cease to be local politicians so that they can benefit from an optimised network of hospitals working more efficiently and effectively, improving prevention and providing wider access to healthcare. Finally, it is important to thank the government for its consistency and this is the approach to the problem of health protection in Poland, which we could not experience, and even dream of in previous years, during the governments of our predecessors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u42	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska from the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u43	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I'd like to talk about the big scandal in this room today. [[What happened?]] It's outrageous that the Minister of Health for 10 minutes... [[Voices from the House: Finance.]] ...that finance ministers talked about the budget for 2022 for 10 minutes. It's just one of the parts. This is only one part of what you've submitted to us, but this is bad material. That way, the Minister of Finance... Minister! Yeah, that's right. If you respect people, Poles, it's the whole truth about your budget, even fictional, you'd say. You would say this from this speaker, you would tell Poles, these strike nurses, these protesting teachers, those IRS workers who also protested in Warsaw a week ago, and today you would look into the eyes of teachers you cheat even on the day of their holiday. That's one thing. And if you're a banker, this material isn't suitable for any proper procedure. Do not call on the name of the Lord God in vain. Just get to work and tell the truth from this speaker. [[Applause]] [[This is the person who's telling the truth...]] Now it's true. What's she like? 2020 - over 140,000. Oversized deaths. In 2021, a strike of health workers began on 11 September. So? And nobody's seriously talking to them. You are trying to tell the public, us Poles, that it will cost 100 billion PLN, and that is not true. You just don't talk to them, and you're trying to put some professional groups on the other team. [[It's what you do, it's what you do.]] It's 3,000 today. patients with COVID. Paramedics are slowing down. There's no one to replace them. You gave them an offer of a modest 30% supplement. The debts of hospitals - this is what Mrs Masłowska did not approve - from PLN 10 billion in 2015 to PLN 16.5 billion. [[There's no debt left for you.]] You failed to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, your tribunal, when it was said that all health services must pay the budget. [[It's overconfidence.]] And what did he do? Well, you did a ruling trick, you said if they wanted to, they'd pay. How? After all, you took these local governments by the throat, they have to pay to have health care facilities in their territory. GDP for health care is another trick. It's another trick. It's just a shame not to tell people the truth. You're showing GDP per military year. [[Shame!]] But, of course, the minister sitting here is happy because he's going to build a wall, and you're doing a trick for your health. You're showing, mummy, on this TV of yours for 2 billion zlotys each year extra subsidies to say that it's different. If you're talking about it to your 5,6% GDP next year, that's it. actually calculated from this year, GDP of this year - 4,89 . There's nothing to brag about, and we're waiting on a recovery plan. And yet you haven't said one thing about a higher premium next year. So out of our pockets, out of our wallets, we'll pay a health premium of 9%. Now the shame you're talking about is, among other things. The money you're bragging about every budget. This is the rising money, the money paid by us for our health, the financial plan of the National Health Fund. And it's increasing, of course it's increasing, because we're paying more. You don't, you don't add much or very little. If you have calculated... Statistics is such a science that you can juggle as you like. I'm gonna tell you that you've been juggling to black out, peel or falsely tell the information. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What I'm saying is, if you're saying that out of our pockets... [[What wasn't true?]] ...we paid 50% it's more paid out of our pockets -- all of you in this room count -- it was under our governments that there was little inflation either at zero or deflation, so that's all. With your government this year, 6% inflation. Everyone's gonna remember that. We pay more for everything. Don't tell me you gave and that it's increased. The Poles paid themselves. And now the truth about how you can charm or advertise to win something and then not do it. Promises. 2020 - planned, among others. in the Medical Fund 22 billion PLN. You spent a hundred and a half billion zlotys out of this, and it's a shame. But in 2,000... You said you were charming how the president was supposed to win because he gave $2 billion for TV, and it wasn't for health. You tried to fool the Poles - you did it. You did it. And now in 2020 2 billion have been saved, but one hundred and dozens spent. In 2021 there were 4 billion, but spent or planned to spend 1.6 billion. Why do you, in the COVID period, in the period when we are sick, when there are protesters in front of the Chancellery of the Council of Ministers, do you not talk to them when there is money for various health support, this is not what you do? In the freezer - but to spend the 1.6 billion more? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Expenditure that was planned shall be carried out at a rate of 10%. So again, a hundred and several tens of millions in the case of up to 160 billion planned by the state. I'm not gonna say that in the health department, it's super corruption. Masks, ventilators, Polish sewing machines. [[Applause]] After all, what you do and try to tell - and from this speaker, which is a scandal. - it fills us with a huge... This country should pray for vengeance to heaven. [[What wasn't true?]] Explanation on... You are planning this expenditure in the current consolidated budget, but this is the plan, we will take everything apart into the first part. There's just money missing. Even when it comes to the proposals of our club, the Civic Coalition club, you said not for health care, but yesterday you said: 2 billion on the golden wall on the entrance of Poland. Is that how you respect Poles? [[The voice in the room: Does it bother you?]] In this respect, we have no business with you... Oh, to tell you again, it's all these tasks and art. 68 constitutions have ignored the state. You're giving it to universities, huh? It is not true that we did not prepare, because in 2015 some 500 places were prepared at universities, among others. Medical department in Rzeszów, in Zielona Góra. If you're not solving... [[After eight years of your rule.]] ...this budget, in terms of health, no problem, and there are people on strike and Poles are dying in hospitals, you do not deserve to accept this budget in part: Health. And call not the name of the Lord God in vain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u44	Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 5.75% GDP for health care is, of course, more than this year, and apparently this growth can be enjoyed, but this is still much less than a pandemic health system requires. This is much less than the Left has advocated in the amendments tabled in the Senate. The Senate has amended the Law on public-funded health care by accelerating the increase in health expenditure to 6% in 2022 and 7,2% In 2025, 94 senators voted in favour of the amendment and the amendments adopted. No one was against it, no one abstained. Health expenditure is calculated according to methodology n-2, and no one in the world is counting health expenditure. What's more, the government's military spending is based on last year's level. Considering over 100,000. excessive deaths during the pandemic, the deteriorating human resources situation, the increase in health expenditure should be clear, firm and not cosmetic. Without an increase in prices, the number of staff will not increase, and today this situation is still dramatic. In 2022, PLN 54 600 million is planned for hospital treatment. That's 10.4%. more than in 2021, but by PLN 2.5 billion less than in the original plan. Unfortunately, there is no such growth. For outpatient care. Its expenditure is to amount to PLN 6.8 billion, that is 6,8% more than PLN 6400 million was planned in 2021, but since 1 July the limits have been lifted to specialists and even Bolesław Piech, former Deputy Minister of Health, has doubts whether the increase to 7% That would be enough. The total budget for the refund in 2022 is to be close to PLN 16 billion. The total increase is 2.8% Compared to this year, but it is, what is important, lower than overall dynamics and as a result, the contribution of CBR to the financing of benefits is decreasing. In addition, it is not known whether the money to finance medicines from the Medical Fund will be transferred to the NFZ and entered into the CBR. The financial plan of the NFZ for 2022 clearly shows that so-called. Act 6% does not work, does not affect the increase of health services and accessibility. According to the forecast this year, the NFZ should receive an additional PLN 9 billion. This amount would double AOS spending and oncology treatment. These are two important areas, because in the pandemic many people interrupted or did not start treatment, oncology diagnosis is carried out at a very late stage, which threatens treatment and here real money is needed. This Decision shall enter The NFG provided 13 900 million for basic health care, while in 2020 13 920 million PLN is planned. The increase by PLN 20 million will not even be able to cover the growth caused by inflation. Speaking of the budget, it is worth referring to a law which introduces a very seemingly reactionary provision to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which stated that it was not the local authorities that were to cover the losses of hospitals resulting from poor financing. The proposed amendment says that local governments could do this, and this could put them in a very difficult situation, because where they are going to take funds, since they do not have money themselves, and are additionally nailed down by tax-deductible provisions recorded in the Polish Lad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to bring up issues that concern presence, so to speak, self-government in the process of building the state budget or financing it. First of all, a stabilizing method. It covers the whole public finance sector, including local authorities, so it also disciplines local governments in 2022. The losses in PIT, which may threaten the financial liquidity of local governments and the local government party, claim that this applies to 53 cities, 915 municipalities and 139 counties. This loss is estimated by local authorities at about PLN 19 billion, in the decade it is PLN 207 billion, and in turn the local government proposes to correct PLN 8 billion in the current year and PLN 3 billion in the development part, which is to be divided as well as the fund of local initiatives, which was the subject of criticism by local authorities. The second thing I'd like to raise is health. Self-governments are the founding bodies of hospitals and, for them, the functioning in particular of county hospitals is, I would say, the reason for being and functioning of the local government, because these are social expectations. Debt - approx. PLN 16.5 billion. The absence of a solution to this issue and the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which refers to the article. 164 constitutions and related articles, which indicate that this is not the duty of local governments. And education. An increase of 2.6%, 53.3 billion for education. A large amount, impressive, but inflation 5.4%. Therefore, these expenditures on education, particularly as regards local governments, are really falling. We've got this whole process of showing that there's not enough money for this. And that amount doesn't include raises for teachers. And, by the way, wish you a day of education. Happy birthday, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u48	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u49	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are looking at an extremely important document: the state budget for 2022. Indeed, a number of very important expenditures have been provided in this budget, in particular security expenditure, but also expenditure so beautifully presented by Mrs Gabriela Mastowska. Indeed, here our actions are extremely effective. I would like to draw your attention to the section of an extremely important social field, such as social policy, pro-family policy, so beautifully and so effectively implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. There's no doubt about it. In this project, the draft budget law for 2022 provided the necessary resources, inter alia. for family policies, family policies, including the very effective and very well implemented programme, Family 500+. This funding was maintained in the state budget. For the implementation of the programme, the family of 500+, which covers all children up to 18 years of age without income criterion, including children placed in institutional foster care, will be allocated PLN 40 500 million in 2022. This level is very similar to the level from the previous year, but it is huge money that goes into the pockets of citizens, which go into the pockets of Polish families. The next point of very effective pro-family policy is the continuation of the payment of the benefit, which aims to provide financial support for the start of the training year, amounting to PLN 300 per child of school age or a learner up to the age of 20 or up to the age of 24 in the case of children or persons learning from a disability certificate. In 2022 the amount of PLN 1400 million will be allocated to this task. Another point of very effective state policy in the field of family assistance is the implementation of family benefits. An increase in the amount of care provision is assumed from 1 January 2022 to the amount of PLN 2111, i.e. an increase of PLN 140. For this purpose, the budget is planned to allocate PLN 19 900 million, which is more than what was planned and almost completed in 2021. In addition, funds in the special reserve of PLN 1100 million were secured to complement the valorisation of family benefits. Another point that is so efficient and effectively implemented in the field of family support, family support, is the implementation of a new programme, a new demand which we have just successfully implemented, as we have announced, shows that we are credible in this respect, is the implementation of family care capital, which is generally entitled to second and subsequent children in a family aged between 12 and 36 months of age, as well as the implementation of co-financing, a reduction in the fees for a child's stay in a nursery, a children's club or a daily caretaker. In 2022, for the implementation of the aforementioned. the task will be allocated an amount of PLN 3200 million. Another point of very effective state policy in the field of family support, support of Polish families, is undoubtedly the continuation of the programme "Milch+" supporting the development of care institutions for the youngest children: crèches, children's clubs. For this purpose we secure in 2022 the amount of PLN 450 million. Another very important point in the effective activity of the State in the field of family support is undoubtedly the financing of the Large Family Charter. Here we are talking about the right to a discount system and additional rights for 3+ families both in public institutions and in private institutions. The holders of the Large Family Card have the opportunity to make cheaper use of the offer of operators in the industry, whether food or fuel, banking or recreational. The Large Family Charter supports the budgets of large families, facilitates access to goods and services. For this purpose, the amount of PLN 40 million is planned to be allocated. Another very important point showing effective government action in support of Polish families is the payment of maternity benefits. For this purpose, expenditure under the Social Insurance Fund of PLN 10 billion is planned. On the other hand, as regards social and health contributions for those on parental leave, for those receiving maternity benefits, the Social Insurance Institution's plan includes PLN 4 billion. Another very important point showing how effective the government of the Republic of Poland's activities in support of Polish families are the financing of prevention and improvement of working methods with the family, the dissemination of family forms of foster care for the child, as well as the improvement of standards in existing care facilities, which provide assistance to children who are partially or completely deprived of parental care. For this purpose, we plan to allocate about PLN 75 million in this state budget. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! These facts, these data clearly show how these actions taken by the Government of Law and Justice - during the first years of government so effectively implemented by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and today by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - are effective and extremely necessary. Yes, this is the kind of aid that Polish families were expecting - they were waiting for support, for specific money, for specific expenditure from the state budget, which is coming to them. They come to those who need state support the most, they need the care of the government, the care of the Polish parliament and that is what we are doing effectively. [[Applause]] These state expenditures, from the state budget for the division: The family in 2022 amounts to PLN 62 300 million - 12.15% total expenditure of the state budget, a huge amount that is spent on Polish families. In comparison, in 2021 these expenditures amounted to PLN 58 800 million, which means their increase by more than 3 billion. By nearly PLN 4 billion we increase state aid to Polish families in 2022. Taking into account expenditure also implemented by other bodies to support families, e.g. tax breaks, travel subsidies, support for the availability of pre-school education, there has been a significant increase in spending on family policy in recent years. In 2015, the state budget for family support accounted for 1,78% GDP to reach 3.11% in 2017 GDP. The implementation of benefits from the 500+ programme or from the "Good start" programme resulted in an increase in expenditure from the state budget to the family to around 3.24% GDP in 2022 Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Another significant item of State budget expenditure is social assistance expenditure and other social policy tasks. These include providing financial support to organisational units carrying out social assistance tasks and providing support to people and families in difficulties of life, as well as financing social rehabilitation activities for disabled people and activities for the social activity of older people. This is how the government is effectively implemented, among others. State aid for nutrition, as well as a programme aimed at reducing the scale of domestic violence. State aid is also linked to the provision of specialised care services to persons with mental disorders or to the prevention of homelessness. In addition, the aim shall be to ensure that customers are provided with quality social assistance, in accordance with the relevant standard, and that fully qualified personnel provide professional services. Social assistance expenditure in 2022 is planned to amount to PLN 4900 million. As part of the expenditure for 2022, pension benefits are also valued at 104.89% from 1 March 2022. , and the payment of the 13th pension financed by the Solidarity Fund. The amount of 201 600 000 was included in the draft State budget for 2022 in support of the tasks carried out by the disability assessment teams, the execution of the parking card and the implementation of the disability card. zł. For programmes for the participation of older people in 2022, the multiannual programme, which is extremely expected and needed, especially by older people, is included in the programme "Senior+" the amount of PLN 80 million is included, while for the programme "Activities+" we have included the amount of PLN 40 million. An amount of PLN 3600 million is included in the supplementary allowance for persons unable to live independently for the benefit of 500+ for persons with disabilities financed by the Solidarity Fund in 2022. In 2022, an amount of PLN 5 billion was included in the payment of the social pension, which also shows that it is much greater than in 2021. Another point of important and effective state policy to support those in need of assistance is the payment of the 13th pension from the Solidarity Fund. Here is the planned amount of PLN 12 700 million. The next point, High Izbo, which is extremely important in terms of social policy, is the implementation of initiatives for people with disabilities, with particular regard to the actions resulting from the Strategy for Persons with Disabilities 2021-2030. In 2022, additional funds of PLN 800 million were included in the financial plan of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. In total, the plan of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for the tasks resulting from the Act establishing the Fund plans to allocate PLN 7700 million. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All this, once again, I would like to say in a clear and concrete way, shows how the government of the Republic of Poland has chosen an effective state policy in the field of social assistance, help and support of pro-family activities. This has been happening since 2015. Once again, I will recall Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who are very effective in implementing this policy, which is very important and very important. I recall Minister Rafalska, who was implementing this necessary programme. I summon the Minister Bożena Borys-Raccoon. I summon Minister Marlena Maląg. Thank you very much for this work, for this effective state policy in this area. I am extremely proud that as a Member of the Lublin Land, as a Member of the Republic of Poland, I can support and support a government that cares for the weakest in such a good and extremely effective way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Costowniak... But no, Mr Semoniak is earlier. Something's going crazy again. [[Virus.]] Mr Tomasz Siemoniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Civic Coalition supports stable defence expenditure, the level of defence expenditure. I will remind you, 20 years ago, the then Minister of Defence, Bronisław Komorowski, by political consensus in this House, was agreed that Poland would spend 2% GDP in defense. [[Applause]] This is a NATO requirement. I am simplifying Mr Sipiera - he spoke about the European Union, but I understand, he meant well. This is NATO-Wski's requirement. Then for a few years it was reduced to 1.95. In the times of the Platform's and PSL's rule, also with the agreement of the opposition then, this was increased to 2%. Also in 2017, when it was proposed to increase this indicator to 2,5% By 2030, the Civic Platform supported this plan. But, ladies and gentlemen, not the indicators and not the percentages defending the state in the event of a threat. History knows such cases when countries spent a great deal in defense, and they fell apart like card houses in the face of aggression or danger. Unfortunately, the last 6 years have been a decline in Polish defence capabilities. These great expenses did not translate into an increase in defence capabilities. This is a basic category that can be measured, whether it's better or worse. No modernisation programme has been launched or completed at that time. We have many promises, we have many announcements, while walking hard on the ground and dealing with the dangers that are here and now, we have to say that this condition is not absolutely satisfactory. And this draft budget in the heading: National Defense unfortunately is the same diseases that have been rolling the MON budget since 2015. The first disease is a lack of plan and transparency and chaos. I mean, these sudden twists of action, sudden decisions that surprise everyone, which come out of nothing that have no deeper backup. I am referring to the decisions made in the last 2 years to purchase F-35 aircraft and recently Abrams tanks, which will project at least PLN 40 billion on the MON budget. As e-mails show in private mailboxes, I think it's true, because you can see very substantive analysis of military modernisation programs... [[Scandal!]] ...also among you, this raises huge doubts. You can see that these decisions are only made for ad hoc propaganda, I don't know, to get a visit to the United States, not on the basis of deep analysis. These decisions make the budget in the heading: The national defence for other years is already busy, that the money is spent for the next 10 years and that this room of manoeuvre is extremely small for the Minister of Defence. And badly spent money is lost twice because there is no equipment that is most needed and bought is different. I will point out that the most important thing, the Vistula programme, anti-aircraft and missile defence, was only partially taken up by the states, and all experts agree that this is absolutely the most important issue. Another disease is preferences for foreign industry. The Polish Armed Group is overlooked, the Polish private defence industry is ignored. It cannot be that such an important part of the defence potential of Polish arms plants is treated in such a way by states. Another disease is the advances, that is to say, every year, and it will probably also be so in this year that it looks good on paper. Advances are paid to contractors, mainly foreign ones, which is probably about PLN 20 billion, let the ministry straighten out. On the other hand, these advances are not followed by any real abilities, no equipment comes to Poland. Another disease in this budget is financing things that are not for the military. The state itself, contrary to its own resolution of the Council of Ministers, which decided otherwise several years ago, financed from the budget for the army the purchase of VIP aircraft. I am no longer in the matter of substance, whether it was necessary for three large or two small ones, but, in principle, planes are needed for the most important people in the country, but this should not be done at the expense of the army. This concerns the financing of roads, shooting galleries, purchases - of course needed - helicopters for the Air Emergency Service. The MON budget has been made up of a budget to which it reaches if necessary. Always at the expense of the army. I can also accuse you on this occasion that there is no dialogue with the opposition or with the public as regards the national defence department. I mentioned a consensus 20 years ago. That's not at all what I'm saying right now. The opposition and the public are completely surprised by your decisions. I was talking about the F-35s and the Abrams tanks. Ladies and gentlemen! These are tens of billions of public money paid by taxpayers, voters, our voters. They have the right to know and have the right to expect that decisions of such a financial dimension and casting for decades, because these are programs that will be in force for 10, 20, 30 years... The state, whatever you think of yourselves, will not rule forever. Someone else will then verify those decisions. I ask you to do so, and we expect such serious decisions, which concern national defence, to be made in consensus and dialogue. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u52	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish government and the governing party have recently renounced European values, but in creating a draft budget for next year, they eagerly reach out to Greek financial policy practices. Greece has been hiding its public debt, unemployment rates and everything that can be lied to, covered up in creative accounting for years. How'd that work out for her? We all know. She's in bankruptcy. That's the lead the PiS followed, who's got our eyes freaked out with indicators, projections, and data that are sucked out of our fingers. You can also see that the budget was counted by your chief economist Patrick Jak. You are wasting money on megalomaniac projects such as the largest investment in eastern Poland in 30 years, i.e. the Ostrołęka power plant, on which you spent 1.5 billion PLN, which went in total with smoke and not even with smoke, because not a bit of energy was produced from it. Many of these examples could be mentioned. E.g. The government wants to make local governments happy with ridiculous projects. He promises development, jobs, spends billions, and then there's nothing out of it. In the 2022 budget, the government also wants to take care of local governments by taking 14 billion a year. This is, of course, due to the change in PIT and CIT expenditure. We fought in the Sejm to ensure that the development grant reached 12 billion, so as to protect cities, districts, voivodships from the phantom of the cutbacks of the investment or even (The bell) to provide basic services to their residents. The PiS members effectively blocked these actions, taking the example from Marshal Witek and witching, they withdrew the good solutions voted out by the opposition. Without the subsidies we've been fighting for, citizens in my region will lose a lot, for example. Elbląg - over 43 million, Iława - over 9 million, Ostróda - over 8 million, Działdowo - over 5.5 million, Bartoszyce - over 5 million a year. Finish it, Member. Complementing this loss according to the proposed budgetary assumptions will not save 59 cities on the rights of the county, 915 municipalities or 139 powiats. [[Time.]] Thank you very much, Member. The only thing that's gonna save us is, save yourself who can. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are debating the draft budget on National Education Day. Therefore, I would like to start with warm wishes and low bows towards those who perform this beautiful profession of teacher, guide to our youngest, who come into adult life. They perform it with passion, full responsibility, sense of responsibility for the fate of the youngest Poles, our children, grandchildren, with patience, which I envy them personally, although the salaries they receive in return for doing this wonderful profession are embarrassingly low. You've recently blown away your success, and you're right to be glad you've raised the minimum wage. But you didn't raise the teacher's salary at the same time. Do you know what that's like at school? Your cleaning lady, the janitor is making more money today than an intern's teacher. In the Polish People's Republic, it was said that the country where the teacher earns less than a police officer is a police state is a Bolshevik state, is a communist state. You're back. But I'll also go back to this project with a big pump. Minister Czarnek's promised raises, which are on the horizon, is a big sham. In fact, these will be reductions, given the hourly dimension. That's what it looks like on the teacher's salary side. What about material expenses? Already today local governments, I am talking about Wrocław, I am talking about Milicz close to me, they spend 50%. They add the same amount as the government spends on educational subsidies and sometimes more. And next year it'll be even more. Why? Since the price of energy will increase from 1 January, the price of gas will increase, thanks to which the school classes are warmed up. There are more children of foreigners (the bell), you need to prepare additional lessons after a period of remote learning, after COVID, etc. Thank you very much. But the subsidy won't increase. There's one thing I want to tell you. Your draft budget looks exactly like a peerel joke: although the price of bread and butter has increased, but the locomotives - have fallen. Thank you very much, sir. Therefore, the Coalition of Poland is against the adoption of this draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Before we move on to the discussion of Part 19: Transport and transport infrastructure of the budget for 2022, we need to lean on the basic elements for the entire budget and the conditions that characterize it and decide how this budget could be constructed. Ladies and gentlemen! You are talking a lot about this - I am talking about the opposition here - that there are expenditures that should not happen, but also remember that we are in a very special situation related to COVID-19, which is valid not only in Poland, but also in Europe and the world. Such a general signal to increase the expenditure of all European countries was given by the European Commission with regard to the stabilisation rule, which will be halted for the next year. It's very important to understand the situation that we're all in. The whole European Union, but also the world spends more money, which is clearly affecting the inflationary process today. But he's literally in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget for 2022 is a budget created under special conditions, but it is a developmental and stable budget. Our budget deficit is less than 30 950 million. [[And 350 billion under the table.]] Madam, I have not disturbed you, I have listened with full attention. I ask for understanding and reciprocity. It's a rule that should apply to all of us. [[Then we're asking for the truth.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Ladies and gentlemen! This deficit is one of the lower in Europe today. You have to remember that, too. Happiness or misfortune, according to the opposition, is probably a misfortune that Poland is developing very well. That's why this deficit can be so small, because GDP, which is 4.6%. typed... I am convinced that this will be achieved, that growth at this level will be characterised by our country, a large European economy. Let us remember that we are a large European economy. At this ceiling there will be few European countries that will have greater GDP growth. The rise in wages, ladies and gentlemen, however you crave reality, will be around 7%. What is extremely important is that very low levels of unemployment have been maintained in situations that are underworld situations. And all the time I draw attention to the fact that not only the Polish state's finances, I think more about European finances, are in a difficult situation. It's a very good forecast. Low unemployment, one of the lowest in Europe, is a very good forecast for the development of our whole country, also in relation to other countries. But you pay very much attention to inflation. Good, because it is a very important economic indicator not only for economists, but above all for us, for all citizens. I would just like us to draw attention to what this level of inflation, as set out today by the Minister in the draft budget for 3.3%, comes from. Even the state in its good or bad will, I say this to the opposition, you must see some relation between the level of Polish inflation and what is happening even with energy carriers all over the world. For many years now, and it is not a matter of your assessment or our assessment, it is simply the facts, the price of gas is one of the prices that have been unquoted so far. Moreover, the dynamics of the increase in gas price are also not yet recorded. Some people are joking... [[What about gasoline?]] I'll go to the gas. I have asked for some reciprocity, my fellow Member. Some joke that this is due, in quotes, friends from across the eastern border, but in fact no one expected, including you, that Russia would react so quickly and so strongly and raise the price of gas. But we have to add that the price of gas is not only rising in Russia. She grows very much all over the world. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about gasoline. I don't think you're in a position to give Law and Justice responsibility for the rise in oil prices in the world. [[It's cheaper than seven years ago.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you would like to give PiS responsibility for everything that is bad, even for the plagues of Egypt, but there is a problem. I believe this is described in the book of Exodus. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bible was written earlier than the PIS. Unfortunately for you, you can't assign this to the PiS. The piss just happened later than it was written. All these factors, including those related to carbon... [[In Radom, that's where they teach Obajtek. It's true.]] I would very much like to ask your fellow Members to remain calm in the courtroom. Many very wise people were educated in Radom. I recommend such an education, sir, if you want to be educated all the time. I recommend that to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen! All these elements make the inflationary process continue. I don't think there's a person in this room who's serious about economics -- she'd have to cheat herself -- who says it has something to do with one or the other political group. It's related to a certain trend that we're dealing with today. In my opinion, unfortunately, we will continue to observe him for many years. This is also the result of the very important support that most countries not only Europe but also the world needed. I'm thinking about the COVID crisis. You often talk about the crisis you were in charge of. I dare say that the world in the COVID crisis borrowed far more money than you did when you were in charge. The consequences of this will be... [[Yeah, that's why it's better.]] Mrs. Member! This is the third time I've asked you to let me speak. I didn't bother you. I hope for the last time, ma'am. This causes, ladies and gentlemen, that we will see and feel the effects of this over the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to get to the next topic I'm going to talk about. It's about the transport infrastructure. You've paid a lot of attention to all kinds of funds. You were talking about how we've called in a lot of funding. I would like to remind you that funds in Poland are de facto special funds and were established before you ruled before anyone... Maybe there are a few Members and a few Members in this Chamber who remember calling most of them. A large proportion of these funds have been in existence for decades. It didn't bother you when you were in charge, because these funds made you do all kinds of things. There's nothing wrong with that. This formula is common not only in Poland, but also in the world. These funds were, are, and will be, no matter how you curse reality. Also, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to carry out specific tasks which are not allocated in the annual perspective exclusively to the budget. It goes on for example. about investment tasks, whose implementation is scheduled for many, many years. Ladies and gentlemen! Why am I talking about these funds? Because I would like to draw attention to the fact that some of the expenditure, especially investment, is actually located in these areas. They shall not be entered exclusively in the State budget for one year. Let me briefly remind you, I hope that this document has been read by all of us, information on the consolidated amount of expenditure on the transport part, transport infrastructure. In 2022, we want to allocate about PLN 26 billion to road transport, road infrastructure, rail transport, rail infrastructure, maritime transport, inland waterway transport, air transport, aviation infrastructure and support for sustainable transport development. I'm talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, to show you the funds you've talked about so much. A large part of this money is located in large programmes planned for many years, such as: Government programme of national roads up to 2030 He will be, ladies and gentlemen, oscillating around PLN 300 billion. That's how much money we spend on national roads. I will now move on to issues relating to local governments, because you also talk a lot about this. You're talking about losing your income. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are already hoping that no one has taken the income from the local authorities. Self-government is a local community, it's us, people who live in individual local governments. This money - PLN 17 billion, PLN 19 billion - will go to these local communities thanks to the fact that they will stay in each of us's wallets. Let me remind you, because some of the people who sit in this Chamber have come to the parliament from the local government, that a large part of the revenue in recent years is the result of large economic growth, not just the creativity of local governments. There's a set of many things that decide that. Among them is also economic growth, which we see, which is relatively large compared to previous years. This, ladies and gentlemen, decides that in absolute numbers the increase in the share of local governments in state taxes, in PIT, in CIT, is much higher than several, several years ago. I don't want to point to a specific group. Indeed, local governments have had and have had an excellent time in recent years. Local government revenue grew from year to year very, very intensively. Today, local governments should also consider how this money can be translated. But they will serve this because you will also be able to eat the money that comes from the Treasury. All the funds... Here we will focus our attention on road-building funds. So far, as I recall, since the beginning of the 1990s, the state has never supported so much funds related to the construction of roads, of all kinds, ranging from municipal roads to district roads or higher ranks roads, voivodship roads. This support is, ladies and gentlemen, very large and no matter how you curse this reality, it simply is. Is it as far as we'd like it to be? Probably not, because every reasonable person would like to have as much as possible and as best as possible in the shortest possible time. And it's good that it's characteristic of self-government, but I urge you, colleagues, colleagues from the opposition, to go to local governments, to your colleagues, to your colleagues who run local governments, and to listen honestly to what they have to say. This money today affects more from the state budget than it did before. That's just the reality, because those are the numbers today. The Member points to teachers. Member, we are very different, so far I have thought, sitting in this Chamber, that only politics, but I will finish, because we all know each other very well in education, in health, in football, I will stay healthy. You don't even want to see the difference between 4 and 5.75. [[But there's no difference.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That difference will be between us. You, ladies and gentlemen, will probably stay in this group that thinks that 4 is more... [[More than 7.]] ...than 5.75. This part of the room stays, I'm convinced, in this group that thinks that 5.75 is more than 4. [[But neither 4 is real, nor 5.]] So far, ladies and gentlemen, I thought we were just politically divided, but we are much more apart. And it's bad for all of us, unfortunately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Green modernization is one of the biggest challenges facing Poland in the coming years. Green modernisation is essential due to the ongoing climate crisis and biodiversity crisis, but it is also necessary if the Polish economy is not to fall behind in relation to the European economy or the world economy. Of course, we will not carry out green modernisation without cost, but in order to carry it out, we need a green budget that will safeguard social interests, economic development and environmental protection, and the budget presented by the United Rights Government has nothing to do with the green budget. Let's start with energy and climate. You drowned billions in Ostrołęka, you're doing everything you can to pay the penalty for the Turks, and the dates of leaving the coal in the power industry like it wasn't, it's not. Emissions of carbon dioxide are falling too slowly, but prices of emissions trading are rising, and thus electricity bills for Poles and Poles. The electricity bill was already 10% this year. higher than the year before, and it is possible that next year they will grow by up to 30%. Gas prices are rising by 16%. The high gas prices are accompanied by an increase in coal prices, which we must bring to Poland. Only in the first half of this year 6 million tons of coal arrived in Poland, of which 4 million tons were imported from Russia. [[Russian coal.]] This is all the result of six years of your government, [[Applause]] your governments, which have stopped the development of wind energy, and now want to bring down photovoltaics, which are still holding back the development of renewable energy, and that is the RES that will allow us to move away from coal and make energy prices lower. The budget presented by you shows that you are not going to bet on clean air or on clean energy or compensate for drastic increases in household electricity prices. The only thing you're proposing in this budget is to continue the black-to-carbon policy, dense from smog and freezing blood in your veins like energy prices. And now to protect the environment and nature. You're bragging about how much extra money you're gonna spend on national parks in 2022. So I ask: Where is the money for the promised new national parks? Where's the money for the extension of the Bialowieza National Park? Where's the money to create the Turnic National Park? They're not in this budget. [[Because there's no park like this.]] There are also no additional resources for landscape parks, nature reserves, natural monuments. There is no funding for the WDOŚ to develop conservation plans for Natura 2000 areas. And let me remind you that on 9 June the European Commission announced the initiation of infringement proceedings against Poland on this issue. Do you really have to wait for the TSUE to impose another daily penalty on us before you include such things in the budget? You want a second turnout in six months? It's just greenwashing. What you're planning on protecting nature and resources is nothing more than greenwashing. The same is true for transport. There's so much you're talking about excluding communications, but you're not doing anything to finance public transport. You spend half your money on roads than you do on railroads. [[Oh...]] You spend so much on bus services when so many municipalities in Poland are still excluded from communication. With your shoe to the European Union and your Polish disorder, you limit the development of public transport to local governments. Where are the compensations for local authorities for the construction of new tram lines and the replacement of rolling stock? They're not in this budget. Briefly sum up: your draft budget for next year is the best testimony to your policy, policies harmful to Poles and Poles and their domestic budgets, harmful to local governments, to the economy and agriculture, to the climate and the environment, harmful to Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u60	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Although the Minister of Finance spoke about the budget that we are analysing in a lapidar way, it will go down in history for one reason: because he brought to the Polish Parliament a budget of the state in which we will spend more than PLN 0.5 trillion. This is a historic moment. This is a really big moment. The issue of dispute over the size of public finances' debt in Poland was a matter of common concern, the common topic, the level of agreement and questions that could be raised here, which have been raised in the speeches so far presented. I would like to give you some insight into this, because, I think, we are missing out here in a rather important way. Surely the government's intention was not in any way to secrete the state of public finances. The document and its annexes show exactly the state of this debt according to the national and EU methodology. If we look at the governance of the Civic Platform, then in the years when you were in charge, 2008, the debt increased by about 450 billion. Let me remind you that in 2013 you had to resort to a trick like a revision of the law that allowed you to spare yourself the first prudential threshold of 55%. GDP. Thanks to this, you could prepare the 2014 budget with a deficit, and not, as yet mandatory, without a deficit, which, of course, was at the expense of re-accounting, actually embezzling money from open pension funds. [[Why didn't you give it back?]] In this operation, ladies and gentlemen, you have deprived the Poles of their inheritance. [[That's not true!]] [[No!]] Without entering into a dispute over whether this money has been converted into individual accounts and whether funds from bonds have been taken from Poles, it must be stated that this element has been completely lost as a result of your operation. [[But it's not true. Read the bill.]] But don't disturb me. You're gonna talk about it. You're an expert on that, because, I guess, you were one of the creators of the idea back then. Congratulations. [[Yeah, I'm an expert on that, really.]] Don't act like the others can't talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at this data today, it is true that the COVID has caused the need for debt to the extent that we had not previously thought of, because we acted according to the comparative data that the rule of law and justice had been placed much higher than our predecessors. Unfortunately, the COVID, a pandemic, a global crisis associated with this caused us to launch the shield. We reacted very quickly. We delivered money to local governments. We delivered the money to the companies. We were saving jobs. We have saved the situation in the labour market by minimizing unemployment. I will remind you that in your governments it was a dozen percent, and we reduced it to 5%, with a decimal value. [[You're lying!]] [[How much was it in 2006?]] And now it's less than 6%. and is one of the lowest in Europe. And that's the fact. The draft budget for 2022 contains good data indicating that this unemployment will, however, be declining. It is hard not to recall here that during the Civic Platform the situation of people on the labour market was much worse, because there were 3 million garbage contracts. Let us recall the salary of PLN 4 per hour, mostly in black. [[Voice from the room: Amount free.]] Let us recall the tax-free amount: PLN 3092. Let us remember the minimum wage: maybe 1270 PLN, raised by us to 3 thousand. zł. The Law and Justice Government and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, thanks to his vast business experience, has an open view of public finances in banking and is able to aggregate revenues into the state budget. Let's compare them. For 8-year-old governments of the Civic Platform, the revenue of the state budget increased by PLN 15 billion. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. All 15 billion zlotys. Under the rule of law and justice - PLN 185 billion. [[Applause]] So you can say that the country in Castle Square, or actually your leader, who has been changed... Because here the most loudly in the budget debates previously screamed the leader Mr Boris Budka. Today, a cannibalistic method of management has led you to have a new leader. The leader offers poverty in Bank Square, and Law and Justice offers prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the budget that gives Poles a chance to work, to increase their minimum wage, to increase their wages and hourly rates in a very precise way. [[What about the costume?]] Yes, debt has increased if we count it critically according to the EU methodology to PLN 1336 billion, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are still below half the rate among the countries of the European Union. The 14 countries of the European Union have much higher debt. Please note that the average of this debt reaches almost 100% GDP in and outside the euro area, which means we are in this situation, [[Applause]] That's... [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is different: Is it worth borrowing money for less than 2.5% during the transition period? Whereas it is known, especially with such disasters as we are past, that the situation on the labour market, on the raw materials market can change dynamically and that is how it changes. So, the fact that we've controlled your debt, consciously, has caused us to make investments three times cheaper, sometimes five times cheaper, than we would have done today. Appreciate it. But there's one more thing I wanted to say that we're missing. [[Respirators.]] When it comes to the money that is raised by local authorities from the European Union, local government officials today have to hire special consulting companies to help them fill out these documents thoroughly. And the government of law and justice is making demands and all... [[Voice from the room: Good.]] Good. It's very fast now. It's very fast, because if you give fast, it gives twice. [[And he gives his own.]] [[Whoever he wants.]] The Government of Law and Justice does the selection of proposals, only after receiving the financing decision do all the work related to the preparation of the investment and do it quickly. In your day they prepared 12 applications, including building permits, but the money wasn't there because they weren't supposed to be, because they weren't enough. Where would they come from if the budget increased by only PLN 15 billion over the last eight years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an outrage. So don't be afraid of this debt, it's done in a thoughtful, wise way. Don't worry about it being taken out of the budget, because who was to implement the program of aid of shields, like not Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, like not the Polish Development Fund, where there are experts on the calculation of the effectiveness of investments. They were the ones who could assess the compatibility of the proposals at the level of the whole state, the local government, the regions. They did it and they did it right. And they're supporting the government today. Who was going to distribute that money, the Ministry of Development? Special institutions have been appointed to do this, which have had experience, which have received a statutory delegation within the COVID shield and do it in a wonderful way, just one which allows us to come here today, to the Sejm, presenting a good document to the citizens, Poles. This is not a document that assumes a tight corset, it comes down to reacting to a difficult economic situation, a macroeconomic situation consisting only in raising interest rates, in erasing public investment. After all, I remember how in 2009 the Prime Minister came out here and deleted, as I remember correctly, 69 bypasses of medium-sized cities that were in progress, often after tenders and had full documentation. Why? [[That's a lie!]] Why? [[You're lying!]] [[And I remember...]] Because... [[There was a public finance crisis.]] ...he was always short of money... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. ...and he was afraid of crossing the prudential threshold. On the other hand, you have not been able to manage by increasing budget revenue. It was completely out of your depth, you fell into a middle-growth trap, you were under a glass ceiling, and you were generally in a state of fuss. Today is quite different, there is a great hope for a huge civilization leap of our country, to match the leading countries of the European Union. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome... And, ladies and gentlemen, we're not going off this course, we're feeling confident about it. There's no experiment here, there's a very careful, balanced action. I wish you all the strength to continue to repair the Polish state in such a Renaissance way, which for many years will be described in economics and history manuals in a positive way, regardless of what falls in this room today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u62	Thank you, sir. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. [[What corrigendum?]] Please, sir, in a different tone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u63	Thank you, Marshal. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I took the floor, the Member spoke to me. [[I didn't mention your name.]] In the economics and history books, they will certainly write about public finances under your rule, certainly. [[Club time...]] The Member was talking about... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Gentlemen, I'm in session, okay? There was a reference to the honourable Member, she speaks as a correction, and I ask for peace of mind. The Member spoke about the debt to which I referred in my speech and said a lie from this speaker, not the first today and unfortunately not the last of it. Mr. Speaker! You were also, I believe, the Deputy Minister of Finance, so you should be ashamed that you do not know the Act on Open Pension Funds. Now I say this to all Poles, because this applies to each of you who was insured and had their funds in open pension funds: the value of the bonds surrendered by the government of PO-PSL has been recorded in the individual account of the insured person and the heritage has been preserved, just as in the open pension funds. [[Applause]] Remember that and don't lie.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u64	Thank you very much, Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. [[And tell me how much fertilizer there are.]] [[And gas as long as it is, Russian.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u65	At the right time. Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The money that the PiS government plans to allocate to agriculture next year will not be enough to deliver on billions of promises that were made only 5 days ago by the president Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Przyszyce. You do the same thing every time. During the party conventions, you bow down to the farmers and then show them the fig and the poppy. [[Applause]] I would like to quote what President Jarosław Kaczyński said to farmers: There is a budget reserve that will be called: an agricultural insurance fund. This year it will be PLN 3 billion. Mr. President! There is no such money in the budget for 2022. [[Applause]] In the special reserve is, yes, but 500 million PLN for the insurance fund. That's six times less than you promised. [[Reliability.]] In this budget there is not enough money to fight the epidemic of African swine fever and rebuild pig farming in Poland. You've been saying the same thing for six years: we're going to fight African swine fever and it's not going to be at the expense of family farms. You're misleading the farmers. From three fires The ASF in 2014 and 2015 reached 471 outbreaks in 2016 and 2021. [[Applause]] For your government, 160,000 were eliminated. stocks in family farms, I'll remind you, for 240 thousand. existing. That was, once again, the family holdings, most of the voters you betrayed. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Morawiecki swore on Saturday in Przysudze, quote: we will do everything we can to ensure that in the next 2 years the level of aid per hectare for 96 all farmers were the same or higher than the Union average. I'm the one asking, "Where's the money? [[Applause]] This money is not visible in the budget for 2022. It's been the same song for five years, but it's not specific. [[Voice from the room: There is no and there will be no.]] What is the money for 2022 in the budget? Well, there are 22 billion PLN from the European Union budget, which will go to Polish farmers in the form of subsidies and aid schemes. Remember that before you get us out of this Union... [[I thought you were a little smarter than that.]] ...and before you ask the farmers if they can manage without this money, because they say the President of the National Bank of Poland said it is possible. In a moment we will hear that there is an increase in agricultural expenditure for next year by 13%. I suggest that you ask the protesting farmers if they've had to go through mineral fertilisers, feeds, water, energy, veterinary services this year. Speaking of fertilizer, maybe the president of Orlen, and the owner of the mineral fertilizer manufacturer, instead of buying a newspaper, he'd be interested in three. - and sometimes even four times the price of mineral fertilisers. [[Applause]] Last sentence. In Polish Lada you promise the farmers golden mountains, while on p. 28 of your order you have written down that by 2030 you will add PLN 5 billion from your national agricultural budget. So? You lied because that money isn't in the budget for the year. Polish agriculture in the Polish Lodz is underfunded and increasingly pushed to the margin of our entire economy, as evidenced by the budget for next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr. Piotr Pole, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2022 total revenue of the state budget is planned as an amount of, we all know, over PLN 481 billion. The structure of these revenues is tax, non-tax and EU funds. Tax revenue - more than PLN 446 billion, including VAT, VAT - more than 235 billion, excise duty - more than 78 billion, gambling - more than 3 billion, corporate - more than 51 billion, individuals - more than 67 billion, fossils - more than 2 billion, financial institutions - more than 5 billion and almost 3 billion from retail. Non-tax revenues will amount to over PLN 32 billion and EU funds will amount to less than PLN 3 billion. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Now a few numbers, comparisons, how it was, and how it has been since 2015. Compared to 2015, which was the last year under the PO-PSL coalition, the increase in the revenue of the state budget will amount to almost PLN 200 billion. Let me remind you that in 2015 this was a total of 289 billion, and today we have over 481 billion, which is about 70% increase. Now, a few details. VAT - compared to 2015, revenues from this tax will increase by more than PLN 110 billion: from PLN 123 billion to PLN 235 billion, i.e. by more than 90%. High Izbo! Minister! Mrs. Marshal! It is the result of an effective fight between the government and VAT carousels and the sealing of the tax system. From excise duty revenue will increase by PLN 16 billion, from games - by PLN 2 billion, i.e. by more than 100%. From legal entities - by more than 25 billion PLN, i.e. by exactly 100% revenue will increase to the state budget. From individuals - about 22 billion, or almost 50%. These are facts. I will also say that in 2015 there was no revenue at all to the state budget - zero - from the tax on financial institutions, the famous bank tax, which was introduced by the Government of the United Right by the applicable law in 2016. Last year, in 2021, the revenues from this were for the first time and in 2022 they are planned at the level of almost PLN 5.5 billion. In 2015, there was also no revenue to the state budget from the retail tax - i.e. the famous large-area shops - which has been producing revenue since last year. For 2022 this will be almost PLN 3 billion. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! May I? Yes, you can. You just have to want to find the money, not helplessly decompose... [[But where did you find them?]] [[Jaruzelski also knew how to print money.]] Not helplessly disassemble hands, as Prime Minister Donald Tusk and already famous for his statement, Minister Jan Vincent Rostowski can do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u68	Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition. A short time will be added here because there was a malfunction. That's what you told me, Marshal Gosievska. Yeah, well, you're welcome. [[One and a half minutes, Marshal. I've agreed with you, Marshal Gosievsky.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday before the Sejm there was a demonstration of local government officials from all over Poland. They came here to meet us, the ministers, but no one from the Law and Justice was there. There was also no Minister of Finance. [[Applause]] Since you're so generous when you give these hundreds of billions of dollars to local governments, you transfer them every year, why didn't you have the courage to go out and meet the locals? [[Applause]] You weren't there because the truth is completely different. You're robbing local governments. [[And their residents.]] Next year the CIT and PIT tax by PLN 12 billion less, the subsidy by 2 billion more, and the subsidies by 23 billion less. In total, as we take into account inflation, 40 billion local income is less. This is almost as much as the annual expenditure on investments carried out by all local authorities. And local governments - remember this - this is the driving force of Polish public investment. Not government, but local government investments are dragging the Polish economy. And yet the local government is also affected by the cost+ program, which is huge. I have PGNiG tariffs here. Do you know how much the gas price has increased since 1 January 2020? Three times. And since July, twice. [[Applause]] It's not Russia that costs gas. In Poland gas is more expensive. It stings, it costs every one of us. Another thing. You chose your local governments to make them a victim of government. Today's situation is that they don't really have what all these commitments are for. No wonder there are billboards on the streets of Polish cities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By creating a defective law, the PiS government deprived the city of Oświęcim of PLN 11 million. This is the real life of local governments today. European funds - I will also say a few words about them for a while, because 2022 is very important and groundbreaking. From the KPO - Mrs Leszczyna said - there is not even a zloty. And this is how any Polish budget can look. Without European money, because what is included in the budget for 2022 is only the funds negotiated by the government of Donald Tusk in 2014. [[Applause]] There is still PLN 86.5 billion left, with a contribution of only PLN 30 billion. This shows that we have PLN 54 billion net purely and thus we can build roads, invest in hospitals, invest in rail and many, many other valuable investments. Without it, you'll wake up... and I don't want to end up where. [[Applause]] [[With your hand...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u70	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice. [[The voice from the room: It worked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, from those different voices that have nothing to do with reality, you can eventually go crazy or get confused with your senses. Here Mr Marek Owa shouted out how the local governments protested. Which self-governments are protesting? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I think President Trzaskowski called his officials. [[What are you saying? Small self-governments.]] Because when I meet with local governments... [[Which ones?]] ...how I meet with local governments and show them what the actual relationship of the subsidies is, the compensatory, compensatory, what are the actual local investment grants contained in the local investment fund... [[It's about your own income, Minister, your own government income.]] ...now in strategic investments, they say this: such golden times self-governments have never had in their lives. [[Applause]] But I understand that President Trzaskowski, President of Warsaw, wanted to be President of Poland so badly that he would now criticize everything. I understand that perfectly. This is politics. Let's just not mix politics with self-government and self-financing, because this has nothing to do with it. If you want to cover yourself up for President Trzaskowski, who has a policy here and absolutely doesn't take into account any numbers, no values, then there's nothing we can do about it. [[What do you do?]] Just like we can't help it, 4.4% for you. is still more than 5.7%. I can't help it. What am I gonna do? Don't you have to go back to elementary school? Otherwise, it can't be explained. That's the level of discussion. Another thing, maybe about prices, because the prices hurt a lot. In fact, there is inflation, which is a fairly natural phenomenon, but inflation over the last four years, as we're going to count all years, has been about 10%. Only that the average wage level then increased by almost 30%. So for all people, what's important? What's left of this inflation in their pocket? There's more than 15% left. In my pocket. What happened in your day? You couldn't even dream of such an increase in wages because there's no money and there won't be, and you have to deal with it. But it's not just pay. [[The lowest is 100%.]] It's not just wages, it's not just salary increases, it's not coming out of nowhere, it's also social transfers to families that have repeatedly surpassed what was proposed for your governments. So this is the real position, and the fact that - as I said before here - it is not our money, it is the Poles who entrusted us, they elected this government democratically so that we could manage this money, the money of citizens. Since we're managing well, they're choosing us for the next term. They won't pick you anymore, because when you managed that money, so you had to liquidate OFE so that the constitutional threshold of debt wouldn't be exceeded, then why choose one for... So there's nothing in here that's gonna help. Nothing will help, and you have no other proposals, so now you have caught the judgment of the Constitutional Court. [[There is no Constitutional Court.]] You have captured yourself because there is no, you have no other arguments and you are scaring Poles that we are from the European Union. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, you're scaring the Poles that we're from the European Union. [[Voice from the hall: Is the Sejm? There's no Seym.]] Those gadgets spread out on the benches. You don't have to protect us from this. We're not going anywhere, really. You don't have to grab someone's jacket and say, "Don't jump into the abyss because they're not going to." I'm really not gonna jump anywhere. But let's take a real look at all things. The budget of European funds shall be recorded. Some people said we didn't mention him because he wasn't here. It's written down. I'm not going to develop it here anymore. Mr Marek Owa reminded him that he was. But I'm going back to getting out of the European Union. Excuse me, or as the Italian Constitutional Court - let's call it roughly - gave a ruling that in some cases their law is more important than the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, so what? Did he bring Italians out of the European Union? As the Czech Republic, Romania, Denmark and Spain did in January 2020, when they rejected the judgment of the European Court of Justice because it was incompatible with their constitution, does it come from the European Union? And I think the most famous example is German. [[The rule of law is wrong with impunity.]] You're looking at the Germans very clearly, so let me just remind you. In May 2020, the German Constitutional Court, the Federal Constitutional Court rejected the key part of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So? And Germany is from the Union? Then why don't you go with these gadgets to Berlin and defend the Germans so they don't step out of the Union? [[Applause]] instead of gathering here in Castle Square. [[What gadgets?]] You have nothing to offer Poles, so all you have to do is scare Poles with lies, speaking from the European Union. It's not gonna help you. [[Voice from the room: Terrifying.]] Really. Thank you very much. [[You have a costume.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u72	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to say that the Polish flag and the EU flag These aren't gadgets. [[Voice from the hall: What about the budget?]] Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests of all ministries! I'm not happy, I'm stunned at this time. Nine minutes. What am I gonna do about it? I would like to thank my colleagues for saving their time so that they could at least finally share a little bit in this great, wonderful debate. Ladies and gentlemen! First the corrigendum, official within my time. The most sophisticated lie is that you don't tell the whole truth. Mr. Dear! Hey, buddy! How I like you. Don't tell me the Local Initiative Fund is yours. Because we only went to school? - I mean just my own. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'm from Pomerania. No, no, no, no, [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Me, too, from Pomeranian.]] Don't interrupt. Quiet, calm down. I appeal, Mrs... [[Voice from the hall: But what silence?]] Mrs. Marshal! If you'll come to the rescue, I can see that your colleagues aren't... They don't like what I'm gonna say, but I'm gonna tell you something else, calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, not one president, which I regret - Pomerania is the kingdom of the Platform - not one mayor, not one mayor. And how much money did they get? [[One of them didn't take it?]] Just yours? I ask and appeal to you to say that especially yours, above all yours. Say close to the shirt of the body, because it's life, everyone knows. [[Second, third tranche.]] But don't tell me it's just that. That's not true. [[You're lying.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now, let's get to the point. The European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget and our government's policy is precisely a policy that draws from European designs. Europe is not only equality, it is not only the roots of the European Union, but it is above all concern for the ordinary, ordinary citizen. This extremely liberal policy is experiencing regression, crisis, and even history. Yes. Where were families in the European Union as rough as in Poland? You're quiet. Yeah, hard data. Poland was at the end, was an outsider... [[But these are facts. The price of gas.]] Don't interrupt. Yeah, you can check. What I'm saying can be checked. I've got six more minutes, but I don't know if I'm gonna say anything. She was an outsider when it came to spending money. 88% Many families were in poverty, poverty, and poverty. It's all a fact. We're done here. This is the big change and it's worth remembering. I don't want to be in the Union, I want to be in the Union, and so do many Poles. And it's not true, it's just bullshit... Anyway, someone aptly pointed out that Donald Tusk is abusing the intelligence of his constituents. After all, the Platform voters are intelligent, thinking people. How can you bullshit them so much that someone would want to get out of the Union at all, even in their minds, knowing that 88% Is the Poles behind the Union? Right? You may suspect us of anything, but suicidal thoughts are really not our specialty. Just so we're clear. [[And how's your work at Energa for yours?]] Now the most interesting part, I think, attention. In one of the most... Your Marshal... I'm asking you to... This guy, this guy, this guy right here. But, sir... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Work for your own.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, gentlemen, on the left and on the right. This is Mr Cymanski speaking, so please be quiet. I'm gonna tell you a little bit indirectly... And then there will be corrections. In one of the most prestigious radio programs, a well-known journalist raised the question of Professor Andrzej Zybertowicz: How is it that despite the nepotism of all these people, despite the successive usurped, exaggerated, true or not scandals, history, scandals and so many mistakes, PiS has so much support? [[Because you have propaganda. Kurski.]] He's holding up. Thirty-six, 40 percent hijacking. But what was the answer? This is a good context for this debate, because the professor said this: People chased by work, responsibilities are not, as we from the finance committee, on all these topics. But they ask themselves a simple question: 140 billion PLN, mentioned just now 80 billion PLN for our social transfer programmes themselves. Alternative history. Where would they be if the Platform ruled? In whose pockets? What would happen to the money? That's the basic question. In fact, politics is focused on money. Where to take them, and how to spend them? That's the question. Our propaganda is powerful, but yours is even bigger. This is where Adrian Zandberg sits - I'm going to say improvisation now - and his group together. We're not close to them, we're number one opponent. But they made an amendment. I dared. How stupid I was to vote for her. [[60%.]] I supported the amendment, ladies and gentlemen... Please be... Hey, guys. [[Don't scream like that.]] That's my voice. It's not until I start screaming, you'll be surprised what my voice is. But here's what I'm gonna say. Yes, the amendment was significant, increasing the solidarity tribute - the thresholds of 250,000. $500,000. PLN and PLN 1 million - by a few points. All this money is for the disabled. Your expenditure on disabled people in 2015 amounted to more than PLN 15 billion. In 2020 - this is our year - it was 29,2 billion PLN. So it's a 100% increase. And yet, there are still places that are sad and embarrassing, where these people should be helped. But you're the ones who've been paying attention all along: anything but those who are best placed. This is a policy change. The amount free, this was still mentioned, has increased by PLN 2 for 8 years. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 3889 PLN... [[Anything else about investment?]] I know you're nervous and you can't stand it, but I'll tell you now. So for 8 years this amount was increased by 2 PLN, i.e. every year it was consistently increased by 25 gr. [[About the budget.]] We're up to 30,000. We raise it with one hand. That's a fact. MdM - Apartment for the Young, great success. It's true, I wouldn't do anything. he did, but they were things for everyone, just not for the ones President Komorowski was talking about: change your job, take credit. It wasn't for those hearts. [[Applause]] It wasn't for that money. For those they were way ticket to the UK, England, to Germany. That's the truth. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome... We changed that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Where are the cheap apartments for the young?]] That's a tough truth. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Our hero is the one who's hard or medium, and the coolest cats aren't. I've got two minutes left, very little. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please calm down. Logic - logic. I hear you're raising taxes. [[There's more money for your people.]] They're growing, 20, 30 taxes up. And the shares - the same - fall. What's it like? Make up your mind. Two lies at once can't fit, one, yes. That's one way of saying it. A colleague of Andrzej Costowniak said an important thing. Thank you for this, Andrew, because we need to look a little wider. And deeper. We deserve it. The nobility obliges, doesn't it? This money, which is a dispute with the local government, is, however, money that stays in the pockets of citizens. [[Citizens, residents.]] Every citizen in Poland belongs to some self-government. It's worth remembering. Finally, I'm going to talk about freedom. I was just telling you where the money is, where it went. It was your mistake - I say, this is my opinion - the cult of indicators. Indicators, results, GDP, debt, debt - everything's great. For Polish children everything, except money. [[Maternity leave, don't lie to me.]] This policy has lost you because it's different today. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome... Check the European countries and indicators. But that's changed. [[Daycare, kindergarten.]] Freedom, democracy, yes. These are wonderful things, but the most important thing for an ordinary person is the fulfillment and satisfaction of basic, temporal, ordinary concerns such as education, education, housing. And then you can talk about that freedom. A man feels... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Where are these apartments?]] [[The most expensive apartments. What are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please, sir, respectfully. I'm gonna give you 20 seconds, and I'm not gonna bother you because your reaction is the best proof that I was right. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u74	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Let's get to the questions. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'll wait for the room to be calm and we'll get to the questions. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. I'm closing the list of people who volunteered to ask questions. Please. One minute to ask a question. [[Voice from the room: There is no question about whether anyone wants to sign up.]] I said if anyone wants to sign up, you're welcome to sign up right now. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] And I'm closing the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Representatives of the Council of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Insolence - such are the increases in pensions. The government is preparing pensions and pensions for pensioners who are starving. The lowest performance according to the current plan of the Minister of Labour Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, then 34-year-old, will increase by 3.62 from March 2016. [[And this is the budget for what year?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to citizens' wisdom, the situation has changed since 2015. [[It's getting more expensive.]] The government appreciates... [[Voice from the room: Yes, it's worse.]] But, Mrs. Marshal, you're very welcome to try and shake off your fellow Member because he's always in the way. I'm asking my colleagues from my group for peace of mind in the courtroom. You're welcome. The valorisation of pensions is significant. I would like to ask, Minister, how this year will be, in 2022, what is the plan to value pensions and how it will look in quota terms. There is also an increase in the tax-free amount (Dzinek) to 30 thousand in the Polish Lodz. zł. Thank you very much, sir. I'd like to ask how many pensioners will benefit from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u76	Thank you very much. I ask you, Members, to observe the speaking time. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members and Members, Dear Minister, I would like to address the statements of the predecessors and ask Mr Kowalczyk - unfortunately he is not there - if when he said that we had gone through the pandemic crisis with a dry leg, he remembered that we had 140,000. excess deaths and that during that time the public debt increased by PLN 400 billion, and that at that time we had and we still have a complete heart attack, actually a critical condition in health care, and teachers are leaving the profession. That's the first question. [[Applause]] The second question is the following. In the context of another statement: that health care is treated so well and co-financed, can we take into account the fact that the draft budget does not state the volume of gross domestic product for next year in any point of justification on 300 pages? But it is easy to calculate that the amount of health expenditure that does not increase from last year until this year - from the budget, I ignore the NFZ - which means that in practice we will have a ratio of health expenditure to GDP of 4,77 next year. And I would like to make it very clear to you that no manipulations (the bell) relating to GDP made two years ago and comparing this with planned health expenditure will change this fact. Finally, I would like to say to you at the end that Mr Kowalczyk has forged a new economic law. He says, "The faster inflation, the more you have to raise wages, so I inform you that this is called a spiral of wages and prices, and because of this spiral many nations and many countries have gone through very severe crises in the last century." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u78	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Coalition... Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask how it was possible to build the budget for 2022 in a situation where the government has no idea at the moment whether it would receive any funds from the European Union related to the recovery plan. How creative did the accounting of government economists have to be that they were able to agree and save the budget without that knowledge? The second and perhaps more important question is: If the government has made a mistake of 80 billion zlotys this year, what is the point of adopting any budget at all? Such a mistake indicates unplanned management without reliable knowledge of the state of the economy, unless a huge calculation error was a planned element of propaganda that would normally lie in the world. Poles and show the success of the Government of Law and Justice. Minister, I'm going to ask you to answer in writing how you constructed this budget without these elements. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. [[What about me? I was written down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Traditionally, when I ask questions about the budget, I always ask about the expenditure on agriculture. Why am I asking this? Because over the years, from 2016 to this year, this total decrease in agricultural expenditure amounted to over 30 billion compared to 2015 of course. This year's growth is visible, but it is only 1.6 billion in 2022 compared to 2015. When we consider inflation to be more than 5%, we really have a lower budget for agriculture, including the European funds fund, than in 2015. Inflation, fertilisers, but here the main issue is the issue of pigs. In Wielkopolska it is more than 30% to 35% of production and there it is difficult to explain to farmers why they receive in the blue zone (the bell) even, and especially in the red behind this flock within the limits of 3 PLN. 1.5 zlotys, when it comes to the plays of mother's flocks. This requires an intervention buying-in for state reserves. And the question is: Are money for this type of market intervention present in the budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u82	Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u83	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the draft budget you can see on hand that the PiS government will ruin Polish wallets also in 2022 and just look at taxes. In VAT, the government of PiS will take PLN 235 billion from Poles - 54 billion more than in the current budget, 30% raises. 21 billion more than in the amendment, 10% raises. In excise, the government of PiS will take almost 79 billion PLN and 11% PLN to Poles. more than in the current budget and 5% more than in the amendment. It's the PiS government that's responsible for the cost, because it brings in prices of uncontrollable fiscalism. Today is the time to reduce VAT and reduce excise duty in fuels and we expect the government to make such decisions. Cheers. Less than PLN 10 billion is spent on subsidies and subsidies in health care. That's 3 billion less, Minister, than in the revision of the budget this year, and this is a scandal. The PiS government is taking more and more hard-earned money from Poles, and health subsidies are getting less and less. Prime Minister, once again, we ask: Where is the money? [[Mirek, just like on the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u85	The story of reborn self-government. We have four laws on the income of local government units and all four have actually systematically deducted money from local governments. There was one adopted in 2001, which added additional sources of income but was vetoed by President Kwasniewski. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that this budget and the amendment of the Individual Income Act give additional sources of revenue to local governments. What you are saying when it comes to reducing these revenues is completely incorrect and because there is a guarantee of completion if there is a decrease in PIT income that it will be completed. Growth dynamics guarantee that they will still be much higher, so this is a simple lie. As far as education is concerned, I would like to point out that during the Civil Platform's governments overall increases in subsidies were at 10 billion, while for the PiS there are 22 billion, so it can be said that the state here is changing reality in relation to practical numbers, and this is what the income was when it comes to education.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs. Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard from PiS Members a lot of communalities about how fantastic it is, what trust Poles have and how Poles will choose them. On the other hand, I accidentally read a tweet that I'm going to quote. Not all words are censorship, but I will try to do it in a rather diplomatic way. The tweet is: Friend of PiS drunk: We want... the next election. We're tired of being under media fire. We'll make enough money in eight years that we don't have to do anything anymore. And we know the opposition has maximum. Eight years. They're gonna have to clean up after us. Billions of debts. They're gonna cut. And we'll be back in eight years. [[Who said that?]] It is not yours to ever return to power. Because that's how you stole it and how you're gonna steal it, that's the quintessence of all your thinking about the state - to steal as much as you can (the bell) and then others will clean everything up. Once again, I request a list of all funds of Matthew Morawiecki. As the president of NIK said, PiS created 29 funds and spent over 290 billion PLN by them outside the budget. And it's gonna keep doing that. So I am once again asking for this list of all funds of Matthew Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u88	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Budget 2022 Economists comment: Even those who cannot swim can bounce back from the bottom. 2022 is the last year in which budgetary creativity is possible. State expenditure is planned for over PLN 500 billion, revenue - for more than PLN 470 billion. We have a deficit planned for PLN 30 billion. Minister! I would very much ask for information, this may be written information, what level of expenditure was realized and planned in 2021 for transport and fire protection, and what plans you have for 2022 in the area of transport and fire protection. Are these amounts really lower than this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It's very sad that on their holidays, the only raise teachers can count on is a raise in the school shop. It's a joke. 2,5% The increase in education subsidies, in a situation where there will probably be three times higher inflation for this year, shows the government's real attitude towards education, to school heads. I wanted to ask you, Minister, what is the government's leadership today? just in the case of such negligence in terms of Polish education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u92	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: There it is. Michael! No, there isn't.]] Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. [[There isn't any either.]] There isn't any either. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u93	I am. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the most important thing about this budget, namely lying and stealing. In this budget 350 billion PLN is out of budget. No one else in the PiS knows what this is going to be spent on. 350 billion PLN, or 10,000 PLN. PLN not on every taxpayer, but on every citizen. From who was born a moment ago to over 100-year-old. 10,000. zł. What will the money be spent on? Is it again, as it was in previous years for these funds, not until there's scams, if there's larceny, if there's an NIK check, we find out what you spent that money on? They used to say, "They steal, but they share." Now all you have to do is steal. When you share, it's just expensive and inflation. [[Applause]] [[And they share it between their own.]] Because you people, making millions, aren't interested in how much a loaf of bread costs. And nurses, teachers have to take an interest in it every day. Housewives have to be interested in this every day. Thank you very much. You guys get huge prizes. You don't care how much a lump of butter costs. [[Applause]] [[And you didn't return...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u94	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Dear fellow Member, please do not shout here in the Chamber. We'll wait for silence. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Church Fund established in 1950 was a form of compensation for land real estate taken over by the State. The thief estate commission gave the Catholic Church more land than the Polish People's Republic took, than it ever had within the borders of the present Poland, making it the greatest after the Treasury holder of the Earth. It also receives the most EU subsidies. What right is the Church Fund again devoted to PLN 193 million? Poles fund the clergy primarily social security, which they must pay for themselves. In the '90s. The Church Fund was 16 million on average each year. Who among Poles except the clergy now gets 12 times more for their needs than in the 1990s? The Institute of National Persecution called the IPN gets (The Bell) from our pockets 432 million PLN per year. How many million are earmarked for a completely unnecessary investigative post? How much to lie about history? [[Time!]] Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u96	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u97	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The ruling party, presenting the budget for 2022, speaks of an increase in quotas in almost every area of life, which is absolutely untrue, because these amounts will be eaten by crazy inflation and incredible price increases. I want to make a strong request from this place to increase the budget of the State for 2022 for cultural people, for cultural creators. These environments, ladies and gentlemen, have been severely affected during the pandemic. We know that not everyone could benefit from the state budget. We also know how scandalous these measures were shared. There is also no funding for increases for the staff of cultural institutions in this budget. These workers are not protesting, which is why we from this place are asking very strongly for an increase in wages just for them. In this budget there are also (the bell) increases for teachers. We ask for these increases for them on the day of their holidays, on the day of the teachers' holidays. There is also no increase in the amount for local governments to cover educational subsidies. Minister! The state of the ruling party! When will there be sufficient resources in the state budget for cultural people, teachers and subsidies? I know local governments that borrow to make up for this subsidy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u98	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many critical words have been made here about the expenditure on health care. Minister! I would like to ask you again to mention in figures how expenditure on health care has increased over the period from 2015 to the proposal for 2022. Let this sound out of this pulpit again precisely, because what I hear and what others hear about lying about health care should be corrected. That's one thing. The second thing, Minister, is the so-called. A modernization fund? At one time, 2 or 3 years ago, there was a modernization fund for police, guards, not only professional, but also CSR. And just to remind you, although there is no envoy: The Church Fund is not only the fees that you spoke about, but also, I remind you (The Bell) of all, it is money for the renovation of sacral objects regardless of religion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, A group of 6,000. employees of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund have been fighting for a decent wage for several years. One-third of them earn minimum wage. What will be the situation of these workers in the 2022 budget? Second line. I would ask you to indicate in the State budget for 2022 the amount of PLN 104 million, which is expected to be the costs of implementing the Act on Volunteer Firefighters. This law is on the government's website on October. It shows that the pension allowances introduced, which have been expected by volunteers for so long, are going to be that long. Where's the money? The third issue is the funds for compulsory crop and livestock insurance. Only 500 million planned, and it needs about 1.5 billion PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How does the government intend to help farmers in this difficult situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u102	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u103	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Traditionally, during the budget debate, I would like to ask about the money for the S12 road and about the S8 link between the Łódź-South and Tomaszów Mazowiecki junction. I remind you that for six years your Members, Law and Justice, in the Piotrków district, have promised to take off and put in the first shovel, and so far nothing has happened. How will it look financially in next year's budget? Please be clear about this. The day before yesterday, a representative of the General Directorate began to speak shyly about a certain perspective. I would like the government's representative to speak clearly from this speaker when the construction will finally begin. I would also like to ask whether money has been provided for the creation of the National Food Holding, which has been promising PiS to farmers for several years. And on behalf of local government, a key question about the extension of hospitals. There's over 16 billion missing. Does next year's budget (the bell) provide for action on this issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u105	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The PiS government is just expensive. I wanted to show you this. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, this conference by Jarosław Kaczyński, who said: more courage, because half of the prices in terms of fuel are taxes. So I'm asking the Minister. Because Kaczyński screamed then, ladies and gentlemen, when the fuel price was slightly above 5 PLN, and in a moment - six Kaczyński and Obajtka. Will you finally have the courage to lower your excise duty, because every day the fuel prices go up. Do something about it, because Jarosław Kaczyński called for a little courage. So the question to the PiS government is is is this courage? Ladies and gentlemen! The price of gas. In my municipalities: Kuślin, Opalenica, Kaźmierz - 170% The increase in the price of gas, and this is your President of the Energy Regulatory Office approved these scandalous tariffs. My question is whether there will be adequate finance to simply help these residents (the bell) because this raise really is scandalously high. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u106	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u107	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the budget debate, there were discrepancies in Members' statements concerning the facts concerning the specific amounts contained in the budget discussed and in the previous budgets. The amount of subsidies to local authorities was particularly controversial, particularly in terms of educational subsidies. Dear Minister! Is it true that in 2015, at the end of the PO-PSL coalition, education subsidy amounted to PLN 40 400 million, and after 5 years, in 2020, this subsidy increased by PLN 9 billion and compared to the amount of subsidies recorded in this budget increased by PLN 13 billion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that true? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u108	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Here's a yellow card, and it should be a red yellow card for the PiS government for disrespecting public finances, for disrespecting the money of all Poles. And the question is: Why is the government deliberately lowering the inflation rate for 2022, accepting it at 3.3%, since inflation is almost 6% today, and galloping prices will make it even higher? Everyone knows, too, that the government will not be able to reduce inflation in a short time, that it will be close to 6% for at least six months in 2022. Is it because the government does not want to admit that it increases the most sneaky and invisible tax, which is inflation, for Poles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or because he wants to spend that money at the end of the year for political purposes only yours, and the money will be missing everyone? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u110	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u111	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The state budget should reflect the state of public finances. But unfortunately there is no truth here, many expenses have been hidden outside the budget. In total, within 3 years you have brought about PLN 350 billion out of the budget. Next year it will be at least PLN 120 billion. The problem is, you guys are record-breakers in debt. By the end of next year, the government's debt will rise to PLN 540 billion. What does that mean? It means that every Pole, whether he is in a cradle or working or retired, will be in debt for 40,000. zł. The second problem is that inflation, high inflation, is probably something you like very much, because the more people pay for products and services, the more money they contribute to the state budget and the government has more at their disposal. So I ask: When are you going to tell the truth, what is the state's state of public finances? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have the highest inflation in Europe. In addition, you are giving Poles further increases in prices of electricity, heat or gas. Meanwhile, in the draft budget law for 2022, you are planning expenditure of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister in the amount of PLN 830 million, when in 2017 they amounted to PLN 221 million. What's this raise for? The increase in expenditure is also planned in the President's Office and other units. Is that normal? You're bragging that the deficit is going to be 30 billion zlotys on the downside. The problem is, he doesn't say much about real debt. Poles should know what the real financial condition of the state is. Local government officials, law enforcement and prosecutors, nurses and other social groups protest, and PiS says it's okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what's good for PiS and your ward. Entrepreneurs are shutting down their businesses. How embarrassing are you? What funds will be secured in the budget for the Żywietki, Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński district? I'm asking for a written reply because these counties have been treated as stepmothers for the past few years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u115	Dear Marshal! Albert Einstein once said: Not everything that can be calculated counts, and not everything that matters can be calculated. A lot of things can be calculated in the budget bill, but your idea for Poland written in these numbers is one big fraud. In order not to be literal, in matters of creative counting, I will use the example of the first on the side of fraud. Well, according to your project, inflation is supposed to be 3.3%. Let me remind you: a year earlier you were planning 1.6% and at the end of the year it will probably be over 6%. Therefore, even those who invented it do not believe in this prognosis. And it will certainly not be believed by Poles, who have been struggling with record prices for many months and already know that next year the government will give them further large increases, among others. gas accounts by more than 10% , for electricity by more than 30%, as well as higher loan instalments. And then the prices of all the most important food products will rise: meat prices by almost 3% (The bell), milk prices, cheese prices by more than 3%, sugar prices, jam prices, honey by more than 4%, bread prices and pasta prices will go up by 5.4% , vegetable prices by more than 9% and margarine and oil prices by as much as 10%. Finish your work, sir. We're gonna have to tighten our belts tight. But people will have to tighten their belts, not the power that can take care of itself. Right, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u117	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You lie and cheat all the time. You also do this with the inhabitants of Silesia. In May you signed the so-called. social agreement with miners, with local government, [[Applause]] You said that you would create, among other things, 0.5 million jobs for the job losses. The Silesian Transformation Fund, you will secure the money for this purpose. I ask you today: What measures have you secured? Where's the bill that was supposed to be on the subject by the end of September? What measures are you securing for municipalities in Silesia in connection with this transformation, because you also promised them. Six mining regions are waiting for funds from the Fair Transformation Fund. What money is written in this project? The Prime Minister screamed, "The money will be here next year!" You'll be able to reach for them at the beginning of the year. What's the money? What money in this budget is secured for the Silesian program? What kind of money is there? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u118	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u119	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since you're in charge, the budget bill has no longer reflected the real state of public finances. Some of the expenses you're moving out of the budget to make it look good. The 2020 draft budget is another bang, creative accounting and showcase. Within a few weeks, you can change the budget ratio by a few dozen billion. And as we know, you spend hundreds of thousands, tens of millions of dollars in one email. You're cheating people. Why don't you increase your health expenses? What about the National Reconstruction Plan? With this PLN 770 billion for Polish families? Why are you hiding your debt and your government spending in murky funds? One more thing. It's an education festival today. It's a celebration of all teachers and teachers. I, of course, wish them their best wishes from this place and wish that the future budget will raise teachers' and teachers' salaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u121	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The fact that you are not dealing with financial policy and budget planning shows that you are not dealing with the health challenges you face today. I'll give you one example, especially important to me. It's a matter of the dramatic situation we have in child psychiatry today. The fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki and his former minister can tell beautifully at a press conference about what money will be spent to help our youngest is one thing. But how? Are you guys dealing with this really? What money goes to this day the most necessary element of our society, for the youngest people who need support - this is a real test of your efficiency in planning expenditure. I'm asking today what kind of money you have to help these youngest ones, the most in need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u122	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u123	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What's the point of talking about the budget if the billions aren't going where you put them in the bill? After all, you can enter any number, any lie. How much are you going to get out of the budget next year? 50? 100? 150? Or 200? What's the point of discussing finances if you're hiding expenses? Members might as well leave this room because what you say and write doesn't matter. It doesn't matter to this bill. The only thing that matters is 6% inflation. This is the punishment every Pole and Polish woman will pay for your deceptions. For one year, we'll become 6%. The poorer. Who gave you the right to rob the nation of its savings and achievements all your life? We should stop paying you taxes because you treat public money like a bottomless bag. [[Clean it up now.]] You don't book your scams anywhere. Even if NIK grabs your hands, you're still stealing. Control is hit and sunk. A government of thieves. Everyone knows the money has to agree. Except Kaczyński and the puppets from the government that owes us on an unprecedented scale. We demand (the bell) real social control over expenditure. Not for the budget and the destruction of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u124	Madame, I am so sorry. Mrs Jachira, please come back and clean up these cards. [[Clean up that baby, girl. You're misbehaved.]] [[The piss made a mess, so piss is gonna clean it up.]] Member, I apologize. Member, please come and collect these cards. [[After all, you have already gathered the Member. PiS cleaned up.]] Member, please. You can't do that on the Seymary. I'm very sorry that you did this, and you disobeyed my orders. [[Thank you for calling me to culture. Thank you very much, Marshal. I cleaned it up.]] That's no way to behave in the Seym. It's not a theater. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u125	I would like to ask the Minister to answer my question, but also to answer the questions asked in my speech. I'm asking for an answer not only orally, but also in writing. Well, Mr Noblet empathized us here with nominal amounts and billions. Mr President, let me remind you: 40 billion for education subsidies in 2015 was 2.24% GDP and 53 billion in 2022 is less than 2% GDP. You're gonna have to learn. [[Applause]] Finally, the fact that you can't empathize with billions, because it completely obscures the picture. Really. We are in the Sejm and this is a budget debate. One more question for the Minister. Minister, cheers. In 2015 we spent 4.43% on health in relation to GDP that year GDP. In 2022, you are going to spend 4,89% in relation to GDP from 2022. GDP (the bell), i.e. growth, is less than half a percentage point. I'd like the Minister to confirm that from this podium. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u126	Excuse me. Please, Mr Eugeniusz Czykwin, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u127	Dear Marshal! High Seym! One of the principles of functioning of the Polish State, expressed in art. 35 of the Constitution is the principle of protecting the rights of national and ethnic minorities. In recent years, we have seen a sharp decline in the number of people declaring their belonging to the Belarusian minority. During the 2002-2011 census period, the number of censuses in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, where it lives almost 80% This community has decreased by nearly 20%. One of the main reasons for the rapid assimilation of the Belarusian minority is the socio-economic degradation of the region of the south-eastern part of the Podlaskie voivodship, where the minority has lived for centuries. No prospects for development, resulting inter alia. with economic constraints on the use of the Białowieża Forest. Let me just say that last winter, even though nearly 8 million m3 of wood rotted in the forest, the local population could not buy firewood and had to heat their houses with coal, even more expensive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, this population is forced to leave its small homeland, as I said, and quickly undergoes polonization processes. I therefore ask the government, and I ask you in writing: Will the government take action to stop further degradation of this region, which would stop depopulation? Let me just say that the district of Hajnowski, in which the population decreased by 20% in the last 20 years... Thank you very much. ...is the fastest depopulation district in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u129	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! One of my previous speakers asked about the program for Silesia. I have a problem just like him. I can't read in the design records of these wonderful, epoch-like, innovative projects that are supposed to change the face of my region either. Maybe that's because you're still not avoiding creative accounting. This may be because at least two sources of debt remain outside the budget, apart from Parliament's control: the Polish Development Fund and the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This second-speed debt is already close to PLN 300 billion today. Next year it will probably be 50 billion PLN bigger, and somewhere there in 2025 it will probably exceed 400 billion PLN. How and in what intervals do you intend to inform about the growth of this hidden debt? And what about the Silesian program? You were so proud of him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u131	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! There are no new funds from the European Union in this budget for 2022, from a new perspective. All you're doing, all that's written down, is being negotiated by the Platform and PSL government and Prime Minister Donald Tusk. It's worth saying. [[Applause]] Secondly, I have a question for the Minister: When will the health workers strike end? Because it's outrageous that since 9/11 there have been workers, you don't talk to them, and you don't have a solution. And two specific questions about the Podkarpath. I ask you in writing to indicate the location and resources of the university hospital, first, and secondly, in the station program to Mielec station. The Prime Minister was at this station, promising money, and they're not in this budget. These are important questions that I ask (the bell) for a written answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u132	Thank you very much, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Very briefly. I have a request in writing that I be able to obtain an explanation, an answer on the financing of agriculture, health and education in a rolling manner, since at least 2019, because there are still different opinions here, how much has increased, how much has decreased, including the expenditure of non-budget funds. It's in writing, please. And second question. We talk a lot about the National Reconstruction Plan. On the other hand, at what stage are the multiannual financial framework for 20212027? I understand that there is a whole procedure, preparation of programs, projects, etc., but is there any chance that these funds will start to reach Poland in 2022? As far as the multiannual financial framework is concerned, it is over EUR 100 billion for these 7 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u134	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u135	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, in reply to the Members' requests and to the right, and to the left of this Chamber, I will try to resolve some doubts or correct the false information that fell from this speaker. I'm going to start with spending because it really defines the overall situation in the health sector, in the financing of the health sector. Mr Babalski asked for a detailed explanation of how this investment path looked. That is also what Mrs Leszczyn asked for. Okay, I'll answer that. In 2015 these expenditures on health protection amounted to PLN 74 billion. For comparison, the planned expenditures in the current year are PLN 120.5 billion for 2021 and the expenditures we planned under the so-called. Act 6% , i.e. the Law on the provision of health care financed by public benefits, for this year the nearest one would be PLN 129 billion. However, as you know very well, we have recently made changes on the path of increasing health expenditure to 7%. There has been an acceleration of these benchmarks and expenditures according to the draft budget law, according to this path of arrival in the following year is at least PLN 133.5 billion, i.e. by PLN 60 billion more than in 2015. I'm talking about spending without the COVID fund, which is probably extremely important from the point of view of where we are. If we take into account the COVID expenditure, some of them are obviously linked to some of the measures that build resilience to the future, which can be said to remain in the health sector. In 2020 due to the COVID we spent an additional PLN 10 billion in the health sector, in 2021, PLN 30 billion. It's a huge sum. A large part of it was intended for vaccination against COVID. We estimate that in 2022 this amount may be slightly lower, but we assume carefully over 20 billion PLN. Let's look at this for GDP. Maybe it is. I will do as Mrs Leszczyn has asked, and I will refer to GDP this year. Madame, I do not confirm the data you have mentioned. It doesn't look like it. In 2015, health expenditure on GDP was 4.18%. [[No, that's not true.]] In 2021, according to what we are planning, they already exceed 5% GDP. I'm talking about values in the year of planning. If we look at 2022, that is, the one affected by the bill, these expenditures will be 4.91%. Looking at the last three years... [[So it's not even 5%.]] Member of the Commission, 4.18% a 4.91% in relation to GDP, this is a huge, multi-billion-dollar difference. That's one thing. [[In 2015, there were 4,43%.]] Mrs... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Madam, I want to explain something else to you. If we want to get into a discussion, I'll take advantage of the fact that I'm on the stand. Another condition is worse. It's not about whether we're talking about 4.18%. or 4,15% . The point is that between 2010 and 2015 expenditures were decreasing year by year. The growth path that we proposed in the Act 6% - now 7%. - gives a guarantee that these expenditures will grow year by year. They grow in relation to GDP from 2 years ago, they grow in relation to GDP in a given year, even if we would have adopted this version of the calculation. This shows how high the health sector's position in the state budget is. When it comes to the expenses we bear, it is higher every year. I will refer to the specific issues of calculation. I tried to confirm it quickly. Mr Rosati said that the expenditure of the state budget is not increasing, that expenditure is generally increasing only because expenditure on the National Health Fund is increasing. This is not true because the health minister's budget increased from PLN 11.9 billion in 2021 to PLN 14.7 billion in 2022. [[He didn't get to know the budget.]] If we take into account the entire budget, i.e., I do not know, the budget of the Minister of Health, Voivodeships, EU funds, special reserves, it must be said that these expenditures increased from PLN 22.8 billion to PLN 24.9 billion. This together results in an increase in the burden on the state budget of over PLN 2.1 billion year by year, i.e. an increase in expenditure by around 10%. Mr Suchoń also provided information on grants. In this case, to be honest, I'm not gonna be that precise. Let's take a look at Annex 2 to the Budget Act, which shows what the grants are in Part 46. Cheers. These subsidies are increasing in comparison with the Law of 2021 and its novel. In the Law for 2021 grants and subsidies amounted to PLN 6.4 billion. After the last amendment, in which additional grants - especially for the National Health Fund - appeared, this amount amounts to 7.3 billion. In 2022, 8.4 billion were foreseen. I think that the table that Mr Suchoñ was talking about - indeed we have such a table in the Budget Act - that is a certain technique. The question is whether the grants included the Medical Fund in a given year. It can be said that it is such a financial technique, because both in 2021 and in 2022 there were expenditures on the Medical Fund with the amount of PLN 4 billion. [[It wasn't.]] Anyway, I confirm that subsidies in the state budget in part 46 increase by 2 billion compared to the previous year, compared to the novel by more than 1 billion PLN. The subject of child psychiatry mentioned by Mrs Golbik has emerged. It's a difficult subject. We all know that child psychiatry has unfortunately been neglected for many years by successive health ministers. The reform of child psychiatry, which we initiated in 2019, places an emphasis on environmental mental health centres. [[Effects?]] Contracting these centres in 2019 resulted in this - we are talking about financial effects - that the expenditures in 2019, which were already bigger than in 2018, because they included new items - amounted to PLN 254 million. In 2020 it was 350 million PLN. The 2021 plan assumes even more expenditure. [[What about the kids?]] I understand it's only 100 million more, but it's an increase of almost 40%. more year to year. That's the amount we still need to increase. In addition, we have launched a programme of support for child psychiatry, which we have been implementing since the previous year, amounting to over PLN 40 million included in your budget. You can't say that children's psychiatry isn't increasing because it's the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u136	Thank you, Minister. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Sebastian Skuza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u137	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I answer the first question about the valorization of pensions. They will be valued on the basis of a ratio of 4.89%. The next question was about health care. To the words of Minister Sławomir Gadomski, I would like to add that, in terms of nominal amounts, we will have an increase from around 120 million in 2021 to 133 million in 2022. I stress that additional revenues resulting from solutions contained in the Polish Lad are not included here. I'm not talking here. also on measures relating to the need to provide additional sources from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. As regards the issue of KPOs, I confirm that this is not in the state budget, but I must deny the information that there is no resources there from a new perspective, 2021 and 2027. There are funds of PLN 10.5 billion: PLN 4.2 billion - in the state budget, 6.3 billions - in the budget of European funds. I am not talking about measures from the common agricultural policy. As far as agriculture is concerned, I would like to quote the figures. In 2015, in the budget - without the common agricultural policy, I am only talking about national measures - agricultural expenditure was 5.7 billion. In 2022, it is planned, including the reserves of the voivodships, 11.9 billions. I must stress here the following: including insurance reserves, more than 1400 million are allocated in 2022. I cannot agree with Mr Kazimierz Plocke here, because such a position: the guarantee fund in agriculture is in the state budget, in part 83 in item 62, and amounts to PLN 3 billion. On the issue of local government units, I would like to point out that the amount planned by local government units themselves from such main sources associated with transfers from the state budget prior to the announcement of the Polish Łódź is about PLN 140 billion. Together with an additional subsidy balancing the amount that local government units will receive is about PLN 148 billion. There have also been discussions about where the measures foreseen for changes in the education system are. There are 3,7 billion PLN in the special reserve for this. There were also issues of inflation. I'd like to explain that last year's inflation was 1.8. - was forecast from the average market average, not based on the data of the Ministry of Finance. That was the median market average. Although the employers of the Polish Republic noticed that we are in the media foresight, they found that we are too optimistic about all the forecasts and budgetary assumptions that they should be at the bottom of this range. I would like to draw your attention to the following: forecasts of international institutions regarding inflation in Poland in 2022 do not differ significantly from what was proposed in the draft budget law. The World Bank defines this inflation forecast at 3.6% , the International Monetary Fund - at the level of 3.3%, i.e. at the same level as laid down in the Budget Act. Are the funds for modernising the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs functioning? Yes, they function and there are no systemic changes related to their operation in 2022. The KRUS will be covered by the raise system in 2022. As regards the appropriations for the allowances for members of the voluntary fire department, the amount referred to by Mr Tomaszewski is reserved under heading 56. I add once again that the amount for agricultural insurance in the budget section and the reserve for farmers exceeds 1400 million. The next question concerned issues related to the possible reduction of excise duties. I would like to point out that excise duty is a harmonised tax at EU level. There are certain minimum rates below which a Member State cannot go. I can tell you we're close to those minimum rates. Grants to local government units. I can quickly confirm the amounts that Mr Andrzej Noblet has given. I didn't have time to count as quickly as it would be in terms of gross domestic product. I stress that there is an amount of 3.7 billion in the special reserve for changes in the education system. As regards the transparency of the budget, I would like to point out that quarterly data are available on the whole public finance sector obtained according to the methodology of the European Union, so-called. General government. I would also like to point out that the COVID fund plan for this year is about 53 billion, of which about 30 billion are intended for health. There was also information about a significant increase in parts: the law firm of the Prime Minister. I would like to point out that these are systemic changes. We have cannons like this. digitalisation, European issues, e.g. the government's strategic reserve agency's subsidiary, which is why these funds are higher. I remember in this Chamber the discussion which concerned the financing by the Government's Agency for Strategic Equipment Assistance for Disabled Persons, and this discussion concerned why the Prime Minister's budget is increasing so much, and this was a grant for this purpose. There was a question about the even development of the region of Hajnów district. I think that changes in the system of financing local government units and development subsidies will have a positive impact, especially on the less prosperous local government units. One last question - Mr Aekierski, I have an answer in writing. However, there was also a question related to the Church Fund. The Church Fund operates at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and it is from it that social security of clergymen is financed, as well as renovations and modernizations of religious buildings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u138	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget law presented to the High Sejm shows a budget deficit of almost PLN 31 billion for 2022. Meanwhile, both economists and politicians who have recently been associated with the current government indicate that the real budgetary situation of Poland is much worse. All because multi-billion-dollar expenditure on fighting the consequences of the pandemic from the COVID-19 anti-crisis fund in BGK and the PFR crisis shields are in no way included in the budget. Jarosław Gowin, until recently Deputy Prime Minister of the current government, claims that the public debt is 300 billion higher than official data. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. What is the actual level of public debt taking into account expenditure on the fight against pandemic effects from the COVID-19 anti-crisis fund in BGK and PFR shields? Economists warn that the budget for next year is heavily influenced by tax revenues from recent months. This year's tax revenue is higher than expected and the forecast of revenue growth is automatically followed by next year's revenue growth. Does the government care about the possibility of worsening this situation? To what real level could the budget deficit increase for 2022?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u140	In the discussion, a request was made for rejection at first reading of the draft laws contained in prints 1624 and 1630. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019 (prints No 1417 and 1559). I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u141	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! The right to social security is a fundamental human right. The implementation of this right is primarily served by national social security systems of individual countries. However, countries are not always able to provide full insurance coverage, especially for persons changing their place of employment or residence during their professional activities. It is therefore a standard for countries to conclude bilateral or multilateral international agreements on social security, which form the basis for the coordination of their systems, thus ensuring effective protection for their citizens. Currently, it is difficult to define precisely the number of Polish citizens whose problem of lack of insurance protection in relations between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus concerns, but undoubtedly a group of people interested in joining the Polish-Belarus social security agreement exists. This agreement corresponds to international standards in the field of social security. The entry into force of the agreement will not entail the need to amend Polish internal legislation. The necessary requirement, in accordance with Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Agreement, it is only the conclusion by the Contracting Parties of an administrative agreement on the application of the Agreement. The content of the administrative agreement was agreed and the agreement was signed in Minsk on 2 June 2020. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committees: Social Policy and Family and Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 15 September 2021, ask the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 1417 without amendments. To conclude, the committees recommended the adoption of this bill by acclamation, i.e. the committee worked in agreement, for which I thank both committees very warmly. Like I said, there was no objection, we accepted this motion to adopt the bill by acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u142	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u143	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019, print No 1417. The project concerns the creation of better development conditions for Polish-Belarusian economic cooperation and the fulfilment of social expectations regarding the creation of such an agreement in order to solve the important problems of citizens of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus. National social security schemes in individual countries are not always able to provide full insurance coverage, especially for persons changing their place of employment and residence during their professional activities. It is therefore a standard for countries to conclude bilateral or multilateral international social security agreements that provide protection for their citizens and guarantee that the change of place of employment or residence will not adversely affect the citizen's social security situation. However, these guarantees continue to be deprived of many Polish citizens residing or entering employment outside the borders of our country, including those resident or employed in the territory of the Republic of Belarus, or those who have moved from the Republic of Belarus to the Republic of Poland. The scope of the Agreement covers allowances for loss of employment, sickness and maternity, old age, incapacity for work, accidents at work and occupational diseases and death. The subject-matter shall include employees and self-employed persons as well as members of their families and other entitled persons. This agreement corresponds to international standards in the field of social security, i.e. in principle the application of one legislation, equal treatment, free transfer of benefits, aggregation of insurance periods. The agreement introduces rules to facilitate the acquisition of the right to Polish and Belarusian benefits by migrant persons, i.e. taking up work in both Poland and Belarus during their professional activities. These rules are intended to protect a migrant worker from losing his right to benefit only because his professional activity has not been restricted to one country. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports this bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u144	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security. The right to social security is one of the fundamental human rights. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland speaks about the right of every citizen to social security, while the scope and forms define separate provisions. Unfortunately, national law is not always able to provide full insurance coverage, especially for persons changing their place of employment or residence during their professional activity. In order to ensure this protection, the State shall conclude binding bilateral agreements. This is primarily to ensure effective protection of its citizens. A group of people particularly interested in joining the Polish-Belarusian agreement are mainly Polish citizens living in Poland, having the status of a repatriate and persons residing in the Republic of Poland and not having such status. For both groups, the absence of this agreement has negative effects. The most important issues for these people are the lack of possibility to determine the amount of Polish benefits granted taking into account periods of employment in Belarus and the lack of consideration of remuneration for the work carried out there and the lack of possibility to pass the period of employment in Belarus into Polish pensions. This bill is an attempt to solve the problems of our citizens, repatriates and their families. This is a solution to the real problems faced by people living on both sides of the border. In addition, we read in the explanatory memorandum that the conclusion of the Polish-Belarusian social security agreement would be an additional argument in favour of the search for employment by Belarusian workers in the Republic of Poland, which would help to complement the emerging shortages on the Polish labour market and encourage legal work covered by social insurance. Minister! Certainly, the issue of migrant benefits between Poland and Belarus requires an international agreement and it is necessary for Poles to have the right to pensions, pensions and benefits. While the scope refers to other international agreements to which Poland is party, the various elements of the agreement raise concern, namely, whether it is a good time for the Polish government to conclude an agreement with the regime in Belarus, whether the data of insured persons and recipients will be properly secured, whether the government and the Social Security Office (ZUS) take responsibility for the data of persons working in Poland or Belarus and whether it will not be a form of action by which the regime will receive information about employment or lack of employment of certain persons, e.g. oppositionists. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u146	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on ratification of the agreement between Poland and Belarus on social security is crucial for employees and entrepreneurs active both in Poland and Belarus, primarily to eliminate the situation in which the authorities of both countries demanded contributions to their insurance system. The conflict-of-law rules contained in the agreement will allow, as is the case within the European Union, a clear identification of one appropriate social security system and avoiding the problem of the so-called'social security'. A double-coupling. What is equally important, the agreement will also allow for the aggregation of insurance periods in both countries and the transfer of benefits from one country to another. The most important provisions of the agreement are, inter alia, those of the agreement concluded. define the legislation applicable to the posting of workers between Poland and Belarus and the temporary provision of services through an entrepreneur from one country to another. As a general rule, the home country's social security system will remain relevant for up to 24 months in such cases. The sum of insurance periods in both countries shall be taken into account for the purpose of determining the right to unemployment benefits, sickness and maternity benefits, pensions and pensions. Consequently, in cases in which obtaining benefits or their amount depends on the current period of insurance, insurance companies will, as a rule, take into account periods of insurance in both countries. Identification of the State responsible for the payment of benefits in respect of accidents at work and occupational diseases, including in the event of a worsening of the occupational disease in a worker receiving benefits in one country while working in the other country. Benefits transfers. Under the contract, the insurance institution of the State concerned will be required to pay the insured persons due benefits, e.g. pensions, including where they reside in the territory of the other State. I say this as a Member of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, in which every day I have contact with Belarusians who work in my voivodship. Minister! The Left Club supports this submission. It's a good idea, an example of a case that should stay out of political dispute. It's a good step in a neighborhood relationship. Construction, transport, catering, agriculture and many others are waiting for workers from Belarus with open hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u148	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u149	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the project for ratification of the agreement between the Polish Republic and the Republic of Belarus on social security. The ratification of this agreement comes at a time when our Belarusian neighbours are fighting for democracy and people are camping and dying on the Polish border with Belarus. It is a draft act ratifying the agreement between Poland and Belarus signed on 13 February 2019. This proposal assumes that the President will agree to ratify the social security agreement. This agreement aims to meet expectations and create better conditions for the development of Polish-Belarusian economic cooperation. The agreement is based on international social security standards operating in Poland and Belarus, i.e. the principle of equal treatment, the principle of free transfer of benefits and the aggregation of insurance periods. The agreement contains good solutions for the citizens of both countries. It shall apply to all persons who are subject to or subject to the legislation of both Member States. The provisions of this Agreement shall apply inter alia. to sickness and maternity benefits, pensions, invalidity pensions, family pensions, accidents at work and occupational diseases, unemployment benefits and funeral allowances. The Act will also regulate issues related to the determination of the law and the amount of pension benefits and will allow the transfer of those benefits. Such solutions are in force in the Member States of the European Union, but these guarantees do not have Polish citizens living or entering employment in Belarus and those who have moved to Poland. The solutions proposed in this act meet the requests of both Poles and Belarusians. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u150	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding with the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security. At the time when the leaders of the Polish Union in Belarus, Andzelika Boris and Andrzej Potzobut, have been in custody for six months, the relationship is de facto paralyzed. Polish teachers who worked in the school of Polish School Macierzy Szkolna in Grodno, the largest institution teaching Polish language and Polish culture, were expelled. We have a huge problem at the Polish-Belarusian border, where the Belarusian authorities have a conflict below the threshold of war. At this point, we are trying to ratify the international agreement with Belarus. I do not fully understand this way of acting and you were not quite able to convince me at the committee meeting that this is the right step at the moment. Let's move on to the deal. At the committee meeting, you stressed that the agreement was largely about repatriates. But according to your own data, which is given in the explanatory memorandum, this involved 683 people out of 300,000. Poles living in Belarus. Therefore, we can put here between fairy tales that this is the main assumption Or even any idea of a deal. It seems that the main purpose of this agreement is primarily to liberalize the possibility of employing Belarusians in Poland, because not the other way around. As you have said here, Poles working in Belarus can be counted on the fingers of one hand and Polish investments in Belarus are traceable, so this does not concern this direction at all. Previously, mass and uncontrollablely, you have opened yourselves to immigration from Ukraine. Now another target is Belarus. The Polish state is letting a large number of Eastern immigrants into the country. On the other hand, we have no plan for these people in terms of assimilation. The trend is rather opposite. Although Ukrainians in Poland can no longer handle matters in their language in the bank, in institutions, in offices, and exactly the same will be true of the Belarusians you want to let in here. The agreement itself on social security, or more specifically future pensions, will be long-term negative for our system. In the short term, of course, revenue will increase to the Social Security Office in the form of contributions, but it will be long-term, as will pensions for the Ukrainian people, because the agreement with this country was extremely unfavourable and here it seems to be similar. At the committee meeting, you couldn't make good arguments for us to support this bill, and we're still in the same place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u153	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In fact, everything has been said, but I will start with the quote from which the Minister started: the right to social security is a fundamental human right. This is the first sentence of the justification of this law. What kind of social security could the children of Michałów count on, who, according to euphemistic messages, you have returned to the border line? There are great thesis in this law: the need for mutual recognition of insurance systems, the solution to important problems for citizens, the creation of better conditions for cooperation. And when a very simple test comes, our country has nothing to offer but to take people into the woods for the night, cold. Where are your systems then? Where is our idea of social security then? It is worth recalling the words of Poland's leader 2050, Szymon Hołowni: we should agree that there will be no Poland if we treat children like garbage bags exported to the forest. The bill itself is, of course, a formality. About 2050 will vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of this law we read that this document is intended to create better conditions for economic cooperation and meet the social expectations of both parties and that this agreement is a priority for Poland. Because the Prime Minister is signed under this project, I ask you this question: Prime Minister, isn't the government lying to Poles about the situation on the eastern border? Is it not the European Union that is considering sanctions against Belarus, or has there been some mistake in this justification, my dear Prime Minister? Is there no problem at the Polish-Belarusian border? Aren't we building a wall up there? I would also like to ask what social security the children of Michałów can count on. One last thing. Within the framework of a good, as you call it (the bell), economic cooperation, did the Polish government happen to buy barbed wire to secure the border with Belarus? ♪ 'Cause so far, nobody's gonna ♪ He didn't explain it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u157	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question. It refers to how the data of persons will be secured, the data that will be transmitted under this agreement. Of course, there are two aspects here. The first is that there is certainly no comparable level of protection of personal data in Belarus. Therefore, will there be any additional, say, requirements for the data transmitted? Secondly, will this be analysed from the security point of view of the persons to whom the data will be transmitted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding to ratify the agreement between the Republic of Belarus and Poland in a dramatic situation, in an unprecedented situation. The word itself: Belarus really reminds us of the shivering on the back. I have a number of questions, but also a very specific question. Here is an agreement that should actually be ratified, especially for the benefit of the citizens of Belarus. Question: "How many of these citizens will use it in Belarus?" Because Poles - few. Second question, maybe beyond the point of the case. Since you're allowing a social security ratification agreement, on the other hand, you're throwing your children in the swamp somewhere at night, somewhere in the woods, I have a question. If you allow the Belarusian cement of Mr.Lukashenka to flow to Poland (the bell), will you build this wall from this cement that you have announced?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u160	Thank you. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. One last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's the right thing to do. We Podlasians value working together with Belarusians. We've been working together for years. Substantial entrepreneurs are waiting for workers from beyond our eastern border. We're getting along really well. I have one question. Why are we ratifying this agreement so late? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u162	Thank you very much. Now please respond to Minister Anna Schmidt, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer the questions chronologically. First series of questions. Mrs Joanna Frydrych's questions concerned issues relating to the protection of personal data. I would like to draw the attention of the High Chamber to the fact that, first of all, Poland is bound by EU law to protect personal data which operates within the framework of the GDPR. At the time of ratification of the agreement, the Belarusian party will be informed by the Polish party what regulations are in force on the territory of the Republic of Poland, what regulations will be enforced within the scope of the GDPR. This is the first aspect when it comes to the protection of personal data. The second aspect - here too I refer to Mrs Frydrych's question, who asked about the leak of data related to opposition activities in Belarus. I would like to draw your attention, and I would like to draw the attention of the High House, to the fact that, in accordance with the laws in force and in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, the protection of personal data is governed by Article. 21, which has as many as 13 paragraphs, so this part of the personal data protection agreement is very extensive. All data that can be collected, sensitive data, and therefore personal data, can only be obtained at the request of the insured person. Thus, this law regulates and secures personal data of persons who could possibly be disclosed. According to these regulations, there is no such danger. Like I said, both GDPR and art. 21 agreements clearly regulate these issues. As regards the block of questions on social security and whether these rights are sufficiently secured, yes, they will be sufficiently secured. And that is also the answer to why this agreement is signed. We are all aware of the situation in Belarus. There's a crisis, a conflict. However, ladies and gentlemen, here we are primarily pursuing the principle of equal treatment, securing acquired rights, safeguarding rights to transfer benefits, the right to sum up benefits, i.e. fundamental human rights, the right to social security. These rights are primarily governed by citizens. I appeal to the High House, to your parliamentarians, not to combine political conflicts with respect for the rights of ordinary citizens. Thanks to this agreement, both Polish citizens residing in Belarus and Belarusian citizens residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland will have these rights secured. It hasn't been possible so far. There was no summation of benefits, no transfer of benefits. Polish citizens residing in the territory of Belarus e.g. they could not collect benefits which were paid from the Polish system, because there was no coordination of social security systems and these benefits could be paid only on the territory of the Republic of Poland to the indicated bank account or to a person authorised by the Pole who is present in the territory of the Belarusian Republic, to a person authorised by the insured person. Thus, the agreement secures a number of rights that govern the principle of equal treatment and govern fundamental rights. Once again, I stress: political conflicts and the situation in Belarus should not cause the reception or under-precision of certain rules that govern fundamental human rights and safeguard social benefits. As regards the question of Mr Kaminski from the Confederation - yes, indeed, you asked the Member at the committee meeting, I recall this statement as to why this agreement is being signed. Mr President, I do not recall ever saying in my speech that this agreement regulates the interests of the repatriates above all - I said that also repatriates. We are talking about workers who are posted, who are working. Poles go to Belarus, because Polish companies invest in Belarus, bringing also Polish citizens who are leaving as part of the posting of work. Belarusians come here. It's a huge crowd. And I don't think a Belarusian citizen is any worse than a Polish citizen. We implement the principle of repairing the law, equal treatment and give the fundamental right to implement those benefits, which should apply on the Polish side and on the Belarusian side. Let me stress once again: in my view, political conflicts should not hit citizens. And safeguarding social rights and social rights resulting from this agreement - as I stress, strictly regulated not only by the content of this agreement, but also by the law of the Union, which Poland is part of, also issues related to the protection of personal data, i.e. GDPR - provides complementary safeguards for both parties to the agreement. And this agreement follows a number of other agreements on the coordination of social security systems, which Poland is now also signing with many other countries as an important economic partner also and one of the major countries of the European Union. So that in this respect we should safeguard rights, regulate these issues between Poland and Belarus. And as for the situation surrounding the imprisonment of Mr. Poczobut, Mrs. Angelica Boris, I would also like to refer to this. As I said, maybe this is the situation that serves to show that Poland is a country that respects humanitarianism, which respects human rights and which does not hit citizens because of such and not other political decisions of administration related to Mr Lukashenka. I think that's it. I think I answered all the questions. If I've missed one, then of course we'll answer in writing. Once again, I ask the High House to vote on the ratification of this social security agreement between Poland and Belarus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u164	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Barbara Bartus, will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u165	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I still wanted to strengthen the Minister's voice. Poland is a state of law and Poland respects the rights of citizens. This agreement strengthens ordinary citizens who cannot be harmed yet in the sense that their rights are violated, because Mr Lukashenka introduced terror in Belarus and that there is such, not another political situation. I also wanted to say one more word because there was this password here, which you repeat: children from Michałów. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat once again that Poland is a state of law, Poland has border crossings and every refugee, an immigrant who will appear at the border crossing point, will complete the relevant request, can count on its examination. And if we have an attack on the border, where there is no transition, we should speak with one voice, as with conviction and joy I can refer to the fact that, despite everything in the context of this agreement, Poland and Belarus will also vote with one voice, as we also said in the committee meeting. This agreement concerns the social security of citizens, concerns Poles and Belarusians. It does not concern conflict, it does not concern power in Belarus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u166	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011 (prints No 1443 and 1557). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u167	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on print No 1557 on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up in La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011, print No 1443. I would like to inform the High House that the joint committees are asking for the adoption of the draft print law No 1443 without amendments and, exceptionally, those two committees voted, all of them voted in favour, so I think that this case seems indisputable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u168	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u169	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011, print No 1443 and 1557. The proposed bill amends the existing ratification agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta, as the provisions of the current protocol signed on 6 April 2011 in Warsaw do not meet the latest standards for double taxation agreements. Moreover, they do not correspond to the current priorities of Polish tax policy in this area. The project prevents harmful tax practices, is an important initiative that can have long-term positive effects on both countries' national and international efforts to prevent tax losses. It focuses on the following areas: the tax challenges of the electronic economy, the neutralising of differences in legal and tax qualifications of entities, the sealing of rules for foreign controlled companies, the reduction of the tax base by using interest and other similar payments, the fight against harmful tax practices, the prevention of abuse of double taxation agreements, the prevention of artificial avoidance of tax establishment status, the improvement of transfer pricing system, the creation of instruments for analysing BEPS issues, the introduction of a requirement to disclose aggressive tax schemes. Following the entry into force of the Protocol, the revenue of the public finance sector is expected to increase due to the general detail of the agreement and budgetary expenditure will not increase. This will have a positive impact on the state of public finances. Adoption of the amendment will not be required legal measures, but it will contribute to further and bilateral tax cooperation between Malta and Poland by developing mutual investment on the basis of the principles of free and equal competition between companies. The tax bases necessary for the functioning of the tax authorities of both countries will also be defined. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u170	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u171	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta to amend the agreement between the two governments on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion introduces the latest OECD standards for the exchange of tax information into the content of the agreement. It contains a number of changes that aim to seal the area of international taxation and tax cooperation. It is also stressed quite often that it contains numerous regulations which make it difficult to use the Polish-Malta agreement in aggressive tax planning. The new provisions of the Double Taxation Act, which introduces the Protocol, include in particular: changes in the taxation of the sale of real estate companies, taxation of the source of technical services charges, amendment of the rules on the taxation of directors' remuneration, a new method of avoiding double taxation, a tax credit method. The Protocol to the Agreement with Malta provides that the method of avoiding double taxation will be a proportional approach. It should be added that this solution is consistent with the current tax policy of the Polish party. As you know, this method guarantees more complete control over taxpayers' income generated abroad and at the same time fully removes double taxation of income, because the tax paid abroad is subject to proportional deduction from tax due in the country of residence. The resulting changes in the avoidance of double taxation will result in a higher amount of tax to be paid in Poland and thus an increase in budgetary revenue. The Civic Coalition Club will, of course, vote in favour of the bill on ratification of the protocol between the Polish Government and the Maltese Government, although we regret that in the discussion on this project we have not heard any data showing that the government has any estimates of financial consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u172	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating ratification of the protocol to amend the double taxation agreement signed with Malta. The point is that all kinds of ointments should not be used by smart people to avoid paying taxes. Well, that's cool. We don't want frauds running away with taxes on Malta, and we're gonna vote in favour. I'm just thinking, it's a shame that a lot of these smart guys don't have to run anywhere to any islands, to any tax havens. It does not have to, because in Poland it has an entire archipelago of tax reliefs and gaps - close and convenient - including attractive last minute offers within the Polish Government. [[A voice from the hall: That's what I'm talking about.]] For example, imagine your name is Sebastian and you inherited a few billion zlotys from your father. [[Maciej.]] It happens, normal things happen to anyone. You didn't pay a penny of tax on an inherited fortune, because for what? Who says that success in life depends on talent, education or work? You don't have any money, you should have chosen your parents better. So imagine your name is Sebastian and you've inherited several billion zlotys. Just so you know, if you're planning on saving that kind of money, I recommend you start spending less on pants or bread, and then you put down 5,000. £1 a month, you catch Sebastian for, bagatela, $70,000. Years. Fortunately, Sebastian doesn't have such problems, and if someone doesn't have problems, they have different ideas. Sebastian wants, for example. I want to invest in startups, I want to be like Elon Musk. [[What's he talking about?]] So? And here Prime Minister Morawiecki and our beloved government once again leaning over Sebastian's fate and releasing his new investments from taxes. So, postmen, nurses, factory and office workers, looking at your pay belt, looking at your fair taxes, remember the Moravian Prime Minister, remember Sebastian, think you're paying them not to have to. However, we would be unjust to the rulers, saying that they have an offer only for billionaires. That's not true. All you have to do is earn tens of thousands of dollars a month to pay taxes lower than a nurse, a clerk, or a court employee. It's really very simple. Imagine you're a well-paid employee of an international corporation, earning, say, 50,000. PLN per month. You're probably worried you're gonna fall into the second tax threshold? Nothing more wrong. Just close your eyes and repeat three times: I am an entrepreneur, I am an entrepreneur, I am an entrepreneur. And yak, you're landing on the line. You think someone's checking it out? No, not at all. What's more, you can put everything you want, a new playstation, a spa visit, a son's communion into your costs from now on. Anybody look into it? No one's looking into it. You won't even feel the contribution. You can't spend more than one visit to the diner on this new order and on all these contributions. Live not to die. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like, and it's not really funny, because while hardworking people, workers living from first to first, honestly pay taxes in Poland, and it's really they who take on the burden of maintaining the state (the bell), it's for billionaires, fraudsters and sneakers who rule have a fantastic all inclusive offer in a tax paradise in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u174	Thank you very much. Member of Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u175	Yes, I am impressed by Mr Necessary's colourful speech. Indeed, despite my imagination, many of the things that you have said, I do not think I would be able to imagine. Turning to the content, I would like to say that it so happens that we joined the European Union together with Malta in 2004. This was the largest enlargement of the European Union. The European Union stands for a single single market and we are moving towards uniform law. On the other hand, the area of tax matters is not subject to EU-level arrangements, although it probably will be, but it will take many, many years for that to happen, because the idea is that insurance systems, systems, when it comes to the level of earnings, and that's all ahead of us. But there is a growing exchange because it is within the scope of free movement of goods, people, capital, etc. Therefore, there is a need to regulate tax systems so that there is no double taxation, so that there is no certain avoidance of paying taxes, which in Malta, as we know, happens. There were also different situations concerning Malta itself. That is why we discussed this within the framework of two committees to which these matters are in substance assigned, in some way, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance. It so happens that I am in both of these committees and the recommendation was uniform, and the rapporteur presented it in order to accept these proposals for solutions, to adopt this agreement, which, of course, also uses certain solutions proposed by the OECD, an international institution which has the greatest financial achievements, some international research. And it was somehow a substantive contribution to the solutions adopted. Of course, these cases need monitoring, because there's probably gonna be a lot of things that are gonna change on both sides, but I think the finance department is watching these cases. Although I also have such experience that for 10 years I have written letters about the Faroe Islands and the Ministry of Finance, and to the Ministry of Social Policy, because the Faroe Islands are partly within the competence of Denmark as regards the international side, and there is still no agreement signed. I've known people who've been working there for 30 years, and they can't go back to the country because there's no way to transfer their pensions. So it takes work, and it's a good thing that things like this are kept up to date. It's important to embrace other countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a pity there's no longer a messenger from the Left, because I haven't heard such populism in a long time. And let's remind you that in 2019 he earned 200,000 on the board of his party, right? So you don't have to be called Sebastian, you can be called Maciej. [[Applause]] But going back to the point of the case, to the deal. It is not that important due to small trade, but I would like to draw attention from this place, it is an appeal to the government, and especially to the Ministry, to translate nevertheless wider analyses in the justification of international agreements subject to ratification. As an example, I will give the reasons set out in point 5. The sub-points on the impact of the Protocol's entry into force on the public finance sector and on the social and economic life of the state are just two short paragraphs with a total of five sentences. How are we really supposed to figure out any of the two paragraphs? In the explanatory memorandum, we can find a fairly precise description of the proposed changes to the law, but it is not possible to assess their validity without an additional socio-economic analysis, which is naturally lacking. In order to better illustrate this, it is worth mentioning the amendment of the law proposed in the contract as regards fees for technical services. They are currently taxed in the resident country. The amendment would consist of granting the right to tax technical services charges to both Contracting States. The assessment of whether this solution is beneficial for our country would naturally require an analysis of potential fiscal profits and possible additional burden on Polish entrepreneurs, as well as the activity of Maltese economic operators in this field. Of course, there's no justification for that. In a similar way, it is possible to conclude many other points unfortunately contained in this agreement, and it is therefore difficult to make clear what the impact of this agreement will be. And here is my appeal to the Ministry to provide, after all, more in-depth analyses on such an important matter as international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u178	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u179	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill on ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up in La Valleta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011. Ladies and gentlemen! Malta is one of Poland's trading partners. This may not be a significant exchange, as in 2019. Malta is 94th among trade partners in terms of trade in goods, but for many entrepreneurs this can of course be an interesting direction of export or development. Polish exports to Malta in 2019 amounted to just over EUR 46 million. Unfortunately, it was probably the first time that he was reduced. This reduction was over 26%, of course compared to the previous year. It is surprising that in the same year Polish imports from Malta increased by more than 11% to EUR 53.5 million. However, in 2019 Poland recorded a negative trade balance in relations with Malta, although in previous years it was positive. This negative balance is also surprising for another reason. Poland is 72 times the size of Malta in terms of population, so it should naturally be a dominant partner. Turns out there's nothing impossible for the government of law and justice. Even with this, I would say a small country, also with regard to the economy, you have led this balance to be negative. Poland and Malta combine the double taxation agreement drawn up in 1994, but even after taking into account the changes resulting from the 2011 Protocol, it does not meet the current challenges of avoiding double taxation and preventing tax avoidance. Nor does it meet the current standards of the OECD Model Convention, and therefore the governments of Poland and Malta have agreed on a protocol to give this agreement an up-to-date dimension. The government expects this to be an impetus for the development of bilateral relations. However, we expect more activity in the field of economic diplomacy and promotion of Polish business, Polish export, so that trade relations are actually beneficial for Poland. The sum of the summarum, the agreement may have positive effects and therefore the parliamentary circle (the bell) will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u180	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? Please sign up. I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask in a very short way whether after almost 20 years of Poland's presence in the European Union. Let's make a deal with Malta. We're about to proceed with a deal with the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Are these the last countries with which we have not had double taxation agreements? Will our fellow countrymen continue to face similar inconveniences and serious financial losses? If so, how many countries have we not signed these agreements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u182	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. You're welcome. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u183	Dear Marshal! The result of the changes in the tax agreement with Malta, but also with the Netherlands, because this will also be mentioned in the next point of the current meeting of the Sejm, will be a greater amount of tax to be paid in Poland and thus an increase in budget revenue. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already asked this at the joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but you did not have any estimates of the financial consequences of the changes prepared and could not predict what the increase would be. That is why I ask again and this time I ask for a written reply: How much will the tax burden increase and how much will the revenue of the state budget increase after the entry into force of the new regulations? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u184	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u185	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I want to address the question to the government because it is indeed surprising that Poland has, or at least had, a negative trade balance with Malta in 2019. This is also in my opinion the effect of passiveness in terms of economic diplomacy and promotion of Polish companies abroad, because unfortunately the government has abandoned this type of activity. These structural changes, which occurred somewhere in the beginning of the government, less than six years ago, caused the implementation of these actions to collapse in principle. So I would very much ask that the government give a written answer to my question about how it intends to act and what measures would it take to strengthen the presence of Polish exports in Malta? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u186	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask Mr Krystian Kaminski not to make such a connection to my colleague Maciej Necessary, especially since today is his birthday, and especially because these adjectives are unfounded, Mr. And now I'm going to the point. Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! I am aware of the importance of all double taxation agreements, but also of agreements that serve to increase the budgetary revenues of all European Union countries. Mr Maciej Necessary's speech was appropriate, because also in the Polish tax system, there are many gaps that make some income, and many cases that should go to the budget do not go there. Malta, of course, is on the 94th place for our business partners, but foreign investment by companies from Malta in Poland has increased significantly. My question is this: What financial consequences (the bell) will this protocol have, is an agreement on the revenue to the budget of both Poland and Malta? Is that a mutual benefit? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Malta is a relatively small country, so it seems to be sometimes perceived more in terms of the latter part of the name of the instrument of ratification, i.e. in the context of tax avoidance at all. My question: What is the issue of avoiding double taxation and avoiding taxation at all? Which of these threads is dominant in Malta and which is, as I say, the purpose of signing this document? I understand both, but one of these threads is more important. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u190	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government's bill on ratification of the Protocol between the Republic and the Government of Malta is a very good move to avoid double taxation. Unfortunately, you took your time with this bill. I wanted to ask you how much this protocol will affect the revenue of the state budget, the consequences, the reasons for the benefits for both parties. I would also like to know whether this will have a direct impact on the life of ordinary Kowalski, a citizen of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u192	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u193	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank everyone here for the many warm words that you have addressed to us in connection with the implementation of this project. Indeed, the aim of the change in the double taxation agreement between Poland and Malta is not so much to avoid double taxation as to combat tax avoidance. It's not like we didn't have a deal with Malta before. The agreement with Malta is even one of the older ones concluded by Poland because it comes from 1994. In the case of the Netherlands, Poland entered into an agreement in 2002, which is also an agreement which will now celebrate its 20th birthday. The reason why the agreement is being amended is that in 2017 Poland concluded a multilateral MLI Convention within the framework of the OECD. One of the results of this action is that the agreements between Poland and other countries must be changed for sealing purposes. The idea is to just add elements to bilateral agreements that are becoming a new international standard. These are elements such as: Tax avoidance clause or real estate clause. The point is that it is not possible to escape the taxation of the sale of the most expensive properties located in Poland by selling not the property itself, but the company most often registered outside Poland, which owns the properties located in Poland. In the case of both the agreement with Malta and the agreement with the Netherlands, this is precisely what we are dealing with here. What will be the effect of these changes on tax revenues to the state budget? This will of course be a positive effect, but it is also not that the Ministry of Finance knows exactly every case of company avoidance. We can also make available in writing, in response to your questions, information on the number of proceedings conducted by the National Tax Administration in recent years in the case of Malta and the Netherlands, where the services of the National Tax Administration have detected the use of such structures in order to avoid taxation in Poland. On the other hand, we want not to detect this kind of activity pointlessly, but to align the level of the agreement between Poland and Malta to the highest international level, also one that is required because of our obligations, as well as the Maltese commitments that we have undertaken in the OECD. Similarly, the financial impact will indeed be positive, while their actual effect will simply result in other sealing changes as well. Here too, these areas of implementation of different solutions will come upon each other with a very positive effect for us. Information on economic turnover between Poland and Malta will also be answered in writing. Here, however, I would like to stress very strongly that this negative trade balance, a negative balance concerning not only the transfer of goods between countries, but also the provision of services between these countries, can largely be due to the fact that Malta and similarly the Netherlands are called in part the literature within the EU tax havens, i.e. countries which facilitate the transfer from countries that have a fair tax policy without tax abroad and often even beyond the borders of the European Union. Thus, a large part of this turnover from the direction of Poland towards Malta may be due to the fact that this is simply due to fictitious transactions which will be stopped precisely by implementing these new solutions proposed under the protocol supplementing our double taxation agreement. With this in mind, I would very much like to ask the High House to accept this proposal as proposed by the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u194	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the project in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 (prints No 1445 and 1558). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u195	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to submit a report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on print No 1558 on the Government's bill of ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002, print No 1445. Ladies and gentlemen! As in the case of the earlier draft law, the joint committees request that the High Sejm adopt the draft law from print No 1445 without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Filip Kaczyński, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u197	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention on double taxation, signed on 13 February 2002 in Warsaw, and the Protocol signed on the same day, in print No 1445. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland has acceded to the multilateral Convention implementing measures of Treaty tax law aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. As not all bilateral agreements may be amended by the above Convention, it was necessary to negotiate the adoption of these agreements, inter alia. arrangements resulting from the provisions of the Convention. The case of such an agreement is the Convention with the Netherlands, in which the above-mentioned Convention. the amendments will be implemented as a result of the entry into force of the said Protocol. The signed protocol also presents the proposals provided for in the latest update of the Model Convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, e.g. a change in the title of the tax contract. A coherent tax policy implemented by Poland, which aims to combat negative phenomena in the form of tax evasion and avoidance and to reduce the application of tax agreements, has contributed to the signing of a protocol amending the Polish-Dutch Convention. This is also an expression of cooperation between Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands and an indication of the common objective of preventing tax fraud. The new rules should contribute to the increase in budget revenue due to the sealing of the Polish tax system in relations with the Netherlands. In conclusion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u198	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions of the Protocol shall amend the latest provisions of the multilateral convention. The protocol introduces such changes in the Polish-Dutch double taxation agreement as: rules on determining the tax residence of persons other than natural persons, having a double tax residence, new regulations on the permanent establishment, the introduction of a real estate clause, the implementation of a general contractual clause against tax avoidance, the PPT clause, an explanation of income similar to dividends for the purposes of withholding tax, aimed at taking into account income from liquidation, income from the acquisition of own shares and income obtained in connection with the payment of investment certificates. The signed protocol will have a significant impact on the existing Polish-Dutch investment structures, especially with regard to the new provisions concerning the real estate clause, the establishment of a permanent establishment or the PPT clauses. In particular, investors operating within the Dutch holding structures held by Polish real estate companies will have to verify whether the disposal of shares in these companies will result in taxation of capital gains in Poland. We will also observe changes in the scope of the Polish real estate clause and the definition of the real estate company provided for in the revision of the CIT Act. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the bill, but observing how the government interprets and implements its provisions that may raise doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u200	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u201	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present the position of the Left Club regarding the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and tax evasion. I think this is a very important document because it shows that countries are beginning to take very seriously the risk of tax avoidance. It's something that happens in international space. Big people have more opportunities to shape their policies, run their businesses, manage their assets to avoid taxation. It is very positive that now the OECD, the G20 have launched a campaign to strengthen the tax base, to strengthen tax revenues for countries, because in fact those who avoid taxation, benefit from taxes of others, from taxes of the middle class, from taxes of honest companies and need to strengthen efforts so that those who avoid taxation cannot do so. That is why we will support this protocol. I will give the floor to Jan Szopiński. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement specifies that taxation in the country in which the contract is concluded is subject to a profit realised on its territory. And now, Minister, I have a question and I will ask you to answer this question in writing: Should we consider the place of registration of the company, the place of residence and the actual work of employees, the place of data processing or finally the location of the entity for which the work is carried out? Who is to resolve these issues and will not be exposed to an overly free interpretation of the rules by certain authorities? Once again, please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u205	I'll be very brief, I'll try to pay you back, use that extra minute I received from your marshal, and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the harmonisation of tax law, as I said, is a matter of the future. I mentioned this in the previous part of the session when I referred to the ratification of the agreement with Malta. Of course, these relations with the Netherlands, the Netherlands we have to a different extent, because the number of people working there, but also trade and benefits that are carried out by Dutch companies for intermediate export of Polish products, are extremely diverse. There is also a problem of investments, which are carried out mainly by representatives of the Netherlands in Poland. The tax system needs to be organized, harmonised and hence the need to update all the protocols which, in some way, as I said earlier, are ordering. As a coalition, therefore, Poland will support these solutions, because they serve both sides, but also, as I said, require ongoing monitoring, because the situation in life is more dynamic than we think. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just gonna focus on one thing about this deal with the Netherlands. On page 30 of the statement of reasons in Article. 18 on pensions, pension and social security benefits, it says that the rules are changing. It is well known that this does not apply to Dutch citizens who work in Poland, but vice versa - Poles who work in the Netherlands, in the Netherlands. Hence, naturally, questions arise: How will these changes affect their lives? Will it be beneficial or unfavorable for them? And that's the question I asked at the committee meeting to the head of the department at the Department of Taxation. Will our citizens, who have their pension rights there, lose on this change or gain? The answer, in my opinion, and the other Members I spoke to, was no longer obvious. You replied that they should generally benefit from this agreement, but whether the vote on the international agreement should be based on the fact that we are getting information that they should generally gain, or whether we should get more detailed answers, as this agreement will affect the future pensions of Poles who work there. However, I think that once again we should get a clear answer here, whether Poles who have, will get pension rights in the Netherlands, will lose or gain on this agreement with the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u208	Thank you very much. One last question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, will be the last to speak. I ask you to be quiet in the courtroom - then we will finish this point faster and move on to the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u209	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle on the Government bill on ratification of the protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on taxation. Ladies and gentlemen! Two sentences of entry. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is an important trading partner for Poland. Mutual turnover amounted to EUR 19 billion in 2019. Interestingly, the balance of these turnovers was positive for Poland and then amounted to 1600 million euro. The Netherlands was the 6th export partner for Poland, while as regards the value of Polish imports in 2019, the Netherlands was the 5th export partner for Poland. Our countries have a tax agreement, as is the case with other projects currently being examined, but it does not meet the latest guidelines of the OECD Model Convention. The government has therefore negotiated a new agreement which has been presented to Parliament. Its effectiveness seems obvious, so the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u210	Thank you very much. Any of you ladies and gentlemen want to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. He is the first to ask the question of Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We must be pleased that the agreement signed right 20 years ago was finally ratified. Although there are doubts about whether it should not be updated in advance and should not be updated to the reality of the modern world. Well, 20 years ago, remote work was a theory shown in science fiction films. Today we can have a large company employing hundreds of employees, which is located in a small office. For example, a company registered in the Netherlands works in an IT system located on servers located in the United States and employs 50 employees who work in Poland, but for a Dutch entity. Therefore, my club has asked a question in which I will ask the Minister for a written reply on matters relating to the tax system and who will interpret in such cases. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have only one short request, the question which the government intends to take in the near future in order to strengthen the presence of Polish companies on the market in the Netherlands. This is an important partner for us, a very interesting trading partner, we reach a surplus, so it is advisable that Polish companies can operate even more intensively in this market. I therefore ask you to answer in writing what the government intends to do to strengthen our presence in the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u214	Thank you. I ask for silence in the courtroom again, because even the Minister of Questions won't hear it. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement, of course, concerns the avoidance of double taxation and, in fact, the protection of the financial interests of both countries. It is very important because the Kingdom of the Netherlands is one of the most important and forward-looking partners for Poland. It is a foreign investor of EUR 7.5 billion in 2018, but sectors such as cybersecurity, such as environmental protection, such as water management, such as modern technologies, such as all issues related to smart and intelligent use of European funds are at stake here. The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Poland is extremely active, especially in terms of economic cooperation at regional level. So I would like to express my great joy that such an agreement, such a protocol is concluded, will be beneficial for the economies of Poland and the Netherlands. And the question is, why is it so late? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u216	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u217	Just a quick question. Since Alta Energy's 2020 case is mentioned in the Protocol, it often appears in which the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal found that the economic content of the transaction cannot be understood as an additional requirement to apply a tax advantage, my question is: Will the Polish tax authorities and courts follow this path under the PPT clause adopted? The answer may be in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to Eurostat data, the Kingdom of the Netherlands is ranked first among our food customers, taking into account the country of loading and the country of landing. To the Netherlands we export about EUR 2 billion, to Germany we export about EUR 7 billion. I'm a little surprised why, even though we're moving more food... Notabene is the only country in the European Union where the largest food trading partner is not a neighbouring country, it is not a neighbour. My question: Will this agreement affect in any way the regulation (the bell) of this trade, the change of this balance sheet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u220	Thank you very much. And last question, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You could say better late than never. It is about ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the agreement of 13 February 2002. We ratify the agreement after 20 years, but better late than never. I wanted to ask what effects this agreement will have in terms of legislation changing over so many years for a Polish citizen working in the Netherlands, for his pension system, as well as what effects this agreement will have on Polish companies registered in Poland and those operating in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u222	Thank you very much. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski. Since most of the requests were for written answers, I hope this will go very quickly and smoothly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u223	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Here too, I would like to thank you very much for the very good acceptance of our proposal and the support of all the clubs and parliamentary circles. With regard to the questions that have been raised to us, we are dealing primarily with a solution that will really affect the increase in tax revenue resulting from the difficulty of exporting funds from Poland without tax, either simply to the Netherlands or through it to tax havens located outside the European Union. This protocol was signed thanks to the support of the OECD, thanks to the fact that in 2017 we managed to conclude a multilateral agreement between MLI, which also motivated our partners from the Netherlands to conclude such an agreement more quickly, because discussions on changes in the agreement between Poland and the Netherlands have been going on practically since 2008. It is all the more joy that changes can be made that will really adapt this agreement in 2002 to the needs of economic turnover in the 21st century. With regard to the question of strengthening the position of Polish companies on the market in the Netherlands, we are currently looking at a reduction in expansion within the Polish Government. It is a relief that will help companies to find business partners and expand Polish products to foreign markets. Any expenditure on research into foreign markets and the introduction of the Polish product on the foreign market, including the Netherlands or the Netherlands, will entail a tax reduction of 100%. This means that any zloty intended for this type of activity, for the study of the Dutch market, for registration of the Polish product there, for market research and for marketing activities related to the implementation of our solutions there and the introduction of products produced in Poland, will be able to include as much as 200% in the cost of obtaining revenue: 100% as an expense, the cost of obtaining, and the other as part of the tax credit. Will the change in the double taxation agreement affect the trade balance between Poland and the Netherlands? Definitely. It will influence in such a way that the number of fictitious trades between Poland and the Netherlands will decrease, mainly in the field of intangible and legal services, in relation to such advisory services which could be subject to aggressive tax optimization, i.e. artificial generation of costs for companies of mothers located in the Netherlands. What is important, also thanks to solutions contained in the Polish Łada, i.e. regulations concerning the Polish holding company, it will be less profitable to invest in Poland by entities from outside the European Union through the Netherlands. In the case of investors from countries such as: The United States of America or Japan will be profitable to invest directly in Poland, not looking for an intermediary in the form of Malta, the Netherlands or Cyprus. I would like to thank the High House and kindly ask that the draft law be adopted in the wording proposed by the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 08 hours 16 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1671. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the law - Penal Code and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Foreigners Act and certain other laws, - amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days, - amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws, - amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act - Construction Law and the Law on spatial planning and development, - amending the budget law for 2021, - amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The reports shall be printed in no. 1651, 1667, 1650, 1647, 1649, 1648, 1654, 1658, 1660 and 1659 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, has asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Polexit to fake news, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Just as fake news was a declaration by the Civic Platform that it wouldn't raise taxes, just like fake news was a declaration by the Platform and Mr. Tusk that it wouldn't raise the retirement age, just like fake news was that you wouldn't take OFE... [[Applause]] [[You're the one who advised.]] ...the same as fake news was that Prime Minister Tusk originally said that he wasn't going anywhere to Europe, that he wasn't going to get his jobs - but he left. [[Applause]] It's another big lie, Tusk. Lies that Poles recognize perfectly. And I actually said that polyxit is fake news, but after a while... [[Liar.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Mr President, the Prime Minister has the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at any time and has been given the floor to the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] ...I think there's something more to be said. Polexit isn't just fake news. Polexit is your rude lie. [[Applause]] Polexit is a lie because... [[You have two sentences for lying.]] ... The Civic Platform, which lacks imagination, lacks program, can only be based on lies, so it's a lie. Tusk, the rig's lie. And with a lie you don't argue, a lie fights, shows the truth, shows you what the truth looks like. Ladies and gentlemen! The seriousness of this House should be committed. Just as we should not discuss it in this House, for example, whether there is a yeti or a Loch Ness monster... [[Voice from the courtroom: Stands in the bleacher.]] ...so we shouldn't discuss polexit because there's no such thing as polyxit. It's yours, your PR guys, the sick imagination that created it. There's been a vote in this courtroom not too long ago... [[You're sick, man. Sick imagination.]] ...which made it very clear who is acting in the interests of Poland in the European Union. There was a vote on the National Reconstruction Programme. The Civic Platform, it must be recalled, voted against the National Programme for Reconstruction, against measures for Poland. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame! Disgraceful!]] You were against Polish interests, against Polish interests in the European Union. You were also against the interests of the European Union. You represented your narrow, tight thinking, tight party business. The partying of the Civic Platform came out. [[Applause]] But I'm honoring the Left, who at least on this one point... [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] ...was able to rise above divisions, just like the Polish People's Party, which has definitely stopped. I know this is shocking to you. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. What you're doing right now... I will meet you in another room, not in this one. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, what you're saying... [[Voice from the room: We?]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, a few... Prime Minister, I'm sorry. Can I talk to you for a second? It was you who said that from this speaker everyone had the right to preach their own views - except to offend others. What are you doing right now? What are you doing right now?! Time has the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, not the State. Not the country. [[But we can't be insulted. Lie.]] Please, Prime Minister. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few quotes. Art. 8 in point 1 of our constitution clearly and undisputedly states: The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Come on, Art. 87 point 1... [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Constitution, yes. Come on, Art. 87 (1): The sources of the generally applicable law of the Republic of Poland are: the Constitution, the laws, the ratified international agreements and the regulations - precisely in this order, not in another. [[Applause]] And in exceptional circumstances - exceptional - the constitution provides that acts of international law can stand over the law, but not over the basic law. Never over the basic law, never over the constitution. [[Applause]] This is an exceptional situation for Poland, we all predicted in the accession treaty. That's where we moved some of our competences to the EU level. We call these powers exclusive... [[You're funding Bąkiewicz.]] ...the competences of the European Union. They are strictly defined. They are defined in the Treaty of Rome, they are defined and accepted by us in the Treaty of Accession. And these competences Poland entrusts, but - for God's sake - it entrusts, not renounces sovereignty. [[Applause]] We have never renounced sovereignty in the accession treaty. If Poland wants to be faithful to the Constitution, it must protect its autonomy, its sovereignty. And that's what we do. That's what we're betting on. [[Applause]] Unless you do otherwise and consider EU law superior to the Polish constitution. [[Voices from the room: No!]] It's possible, that's what this side of the room says. It's just that once it was done... [[That's it.]] ...respectful country, my fellow countrymen, we will not be able to talk about Poland being a fully sovereign country. Poland would then be some region in some abstract European superstate, but it would not be sovereign Poland and we do not want that. [[Applause]] And you, ladies and gentlemen, have been stressing the role of the Constitution for five years, sometimes you have organized demonstrations in defence of the Constitution, such shirts I have seen with the inscription "Constitution" - maybe you have left. A little more of those jerseys in stock. Why don't you lend us those shirts? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm a little off, but I think I'd wear this shirt, [[Applause]] To demonstrate something. The Constitution is above all that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Don't mock me.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote something from the High House: The principle of maintaining sovereignty in the process of European integration requires respect for constitutional limits of delegation of powers, and the decisive powers have the competent authorities of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the O.R.: You are not the right...]] Who said that? This was said by the Constitutional Tribunal together with Prof. Rzepliński. He said this in 2010 in November, just before Mr Rzepliński became President of the Constitutional Tribunal, and Mr Donald Tusk was Prime Minister at the time. Well, then, maybe you can, Professor. Rzepliński would appear here in the High House, perhaps explain what he meant by these words. [[Applause]] You're welcome. And the second quote, note: The Constitution remains, due to its special power, the law of the highest Republic of Poland in relation to all binding international agreements of the Republic of Poland - the highest law. This also applies to ratified international agreements on delegation of competence in certain matters - underlined. By virtue of the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, i.e. the primacy of legal force, the Constitution benefits in the territory of the Republic of Poland from the primacy of validity and application. [[Applause]] Who said that? This is, in turn, the ruling of the Constitutional Court of May 2005. [[The voice from the room: But we know it.]] ...when Mr Marek Belka was Prime Minister and President of the Constitutional Tribunal Mr Marek Safjan, now member of the TSUE. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You want sovereignty, but in thieving.]] So, after the judgments just quoted, I'd like to ask Mr. Tusk and his party... [[Nothing's gonna help you.]] ...or the constitutional tribunals of Professor Rzepliński and Professor Rzepliński. Safjana is also pseudo-distributive, as you call them, since their opinions, their words were unambiguous - for the sake of Polish sovereignty, the primacy of the Polish constitution over laws, ratified international laws. [[It's a russification.]] Then what can you call today's ruling of the Constitutional Court the wrong decision? Ladies and gentlemen! Password: polyxit was not born in our government. Password: polexit was born in the sick imagination of your PR people. [[Exactly.]] And that's where it is until today. [[Applause]] You've got yourself a demon like that and you're fighting him... [[Voice from the room: Ask Ziobra.]] ...like Don Quixote, who saw windmills, and imagined they were giants, and attacked with a copy of these giants. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Everyone else knew they were windmills, but he was attacking those windmills with great determination. Well, Poles see perfectly well that your Polexit are such windmills Don Quixote, and I think, I hope that Poles will not turn our homeland into the hands of Don Quixote. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You know what? Until recently, your policy could be called post-political, but today when I look at what you're doing, I see that this is anti-state anti-political. [[Applause]] You've been doing this for years. [[It's just a disaster.]] It's as if you've imagined what you'd do if this migration crisis... [[Voice from the courtroom: Great speech by the stateman.]] Let us imagine, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow countrymen, this migration crisis and the Civic Platform with Mr Caesar Tomczyk, who says that you can accept any number of migrants, that we will accept any amount. What would Poland look like then, what would the European Union look like? [[Voice from the room: We see what it looks like now.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we say: not for one European country with one headquarters in Brussels. We say: not for Brussels centralization. [[Applause]] [[Not for centralization in Poland.]] We say: not for the United States of Europe, because this is the next sick idea of leftist ideologies. We say: not for such a concept. [[Applause]] This is a dead end and there's already one disaster at the end of this alley, whose godfather is Mr. Tusk. It's Brexit. You know exactly what it looked like. [[Applause]] [[Man, doctor, doctor.]] Maybe Mr. Tusk... [[Man, see a doctor.]] Perhaps Mr Tusk is already dictating the second part of his memories: from brexitu to other exites - how I effectively destroyed the European Union. The second volume is "Reverend." [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But you have to admit, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Tusk is going through life like a hurricane - which he will not touch, he is ruining. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Get off Prime Minister Tusk, man.]] First he ruined Polish public finances and fled to Brussels. Then, in Brussels, he led to a migration crisis and a brexit and fled back to Poland. I'm afraid to think of the ruins Poland will bring now. God forbid politicians like that. [[Applause]] But let's get back to the Constitutional Court's ruling. One more quote: If we do not follow the rule in the European Union that equal rules are respected equally throughout Europe, then Europe will begin to fall apart. Who's that quote from? This is a quote from Vice-President Věra Jourova of the European Commission. I can totally sign that quote. I totally agree with him. [[You can sign anything you want.]] Only, High Izbo, today is so... [[Sign yours under resignation.]] ...that when the German Federal Constitutional Tribunal says that the German Constitution stands above European law, it's all right when the Council of State of France says that the French Constitution is the most important, it's all right, or when the Supreme Court in Spain completely ignores the judgment of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg, it's all right. When our Constitutional Tribunal, not for the first time... At least out of respect for the continuity of the institutions, you might agree with what the tribunal has said. When our Constitutional Court... [[What tribunal?]] ...shows logically what is the interpretation of European law towards the Polish Constitution, it is you who are unable to accept it. [[Under the tribunal, you're the one who's gonna stand.]] Europe's strength has always been diversity and we support this diversity. This diversity is also a variety of legal orders, and it is also a diversity relating to the pace of development, the stage of development at which we are located. In our situation, we have undertaken one of the most important reforms. Reforms of justice and for this we are being attacked in the European Union and by the Luxembourg Court of Justice. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha ha!]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Because of you.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We, more than 17 years ago, when we entered the Union, entered a little embarrassed, with fear of being accepted. Kind of like a poor relative. I think the vast majority of you will agree. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I think you still want a union where Poland stands humbly in the corner. Poland agrees to everything that comes from this Union. But that's not the right attitude, because if you don't respect yourself, you won't get the respect of others. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]] [[27 to 1.]] [[Look in the mirror in the hallway in Novgorodska.]] Some of you have no respect for Poland and Poles, which is why in our tradition you are rather those who look outside, seek some advice, seek support. [[Toruń, Toruń.]] We had a time in the past when the authorities had looked at Big Brother before 1989. I think that in part of the Polish elite it is still like Stockholm syndrome. [[Voice from the hall: You are looking at Father Rydzyk.]] [[Voice from the gym: Chairman.]] They're always looking for where, who to know. You don't have to know anybody. Look at Warsaw, look at Poland, look at the Polish village, Polish cities and towns. This is a sovereign, a Polish nation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: Chairman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One more quote. Recently, I heard a prominent person from the Civic Platform who is sitting with us in the O.R. [[How's your wife's fortune?]] We cannot judge the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Well, it's hard to think of a better example of the attitude I mentioned. So what, ladies and gentlemen? There's you and the ruler who said something, and we're supposed to shush our ears, shut down the power plant, shut down the mines because someone thinks it's for the best? [[Voice from the room: No, negotiate.]] No. I'm sure it won't. [[Applause]] [[You're partridges.]] When the Court of Justice orders us to have an energy tsunami, so to speak, do we have to comply? Is that normal? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Voice from the room: Ostrołęka.]] We are a sovereign state and we make decisions based on the best understood interests of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] It's scary to think what would happen on the eastern Polish border. We are not asking anyone, ladies and gentlemen, how to protect the Polish eastern border, which is, moreover, the eastern border of the European Union. Thanks to this Poland is today one of the safest countries in Europe. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Don't thank me. We're doing this for you, too. Ladies and gentlemen! You talk so much about European values. You wear the European flag more than you wear the Polish flag. I see that you have recently put up a Polish flag here, and I am very happy about it, but that is an exception, because so far other flags have appeared on your demonstrations. [[What are you talking about, man?]] [[Don't lie to me.]] But you're learning. I'm very happy for you. Very good. [[Applause]] You talk so much about European values. You say that the European Union is equality, why did PSL and the Platform negotiate this way in the perspective of 2013.2023, because this is the agricultural perspective, everyone knows that Polish farmers have lower subsidies than German or French farmers? That's the equality? [[Applause]] [[Would you please stop talking?]] [[Man, shame.]] You're saying Europe is freedom? The European Union is freedom? Then why did you agree to force the relocation of migrants from the European Union in 2015 and 2016? That was your policy. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Stop lying.]] You said that the European Union was justice, then why did Poles go to the dishwasher in England to work there and not here in Poland? [[They ran from Kaczynski.]] And we have led to the lowest unemployment in the history of the European Union, the history of Poland in the European Union. [[Applause]] You say that the European Union is solidarity. So why didn't you and your president of the European Council Donald Tusk Nord Stream 2, as a result of... [[How much hate, how much hate?]] ...what does Poland have today's highest gas prices - as a result of the blackmail of Putin and the Germans? We want a Union that solves the problems of ordinary citizens, not a Union that implements worldview revolutions. That's not the kind of union we want. [[Applause]] We want a Union that pursues the interests of Poles, the interests of all citizens - 450 million citizens of the European Union, not European bureaucrats. For us, the Union is a community that must be based on genuine equality, and therefore the Polish Constitutional Tribunal... [[There's no tribunal.]] ... On 7 October, he did not question the European treaties, only the tribunal issued a judgment in defence of Polish sovereignty and gave a beautiful justification for the sentence in defence of Polish sovereignty. As well as several constitutional tribunals of the Member States. Because if the Union is to remain democratic, High Izbo, if it is to remain democratic... [[Now some poetry.]] ...the Polish, Belgian or Belgian nations living in Belgium, Dutch, German, French, Spanish must decide, not the judges. Not the judges of the TSUE, [[Applause]] Only a nation that chooses power in democratic elections. [[Teach yourselves democracy.]] We respect the judges, but they're not from setting up a new system. They are from judging under the laws adopted in each Member State's legal order. It's so simple that you need to be reminded of it. However, today the Member States of the European Union are becoming the experimental field of the European institutions, the Commission, yes, the Court of Justice of the European Union. He moves borders with every sentence or almost every sentence - which the European nations will allow him to do, or they will allow him to omit national constitutions. And we don't let that happen. The Constitution is the most important thing. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Constitution, yes, sir. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, do you really want Polish factories to be closed by the decision of one judge at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg? Is that really what you want? [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Some people nod around here. It's really embarrassing. [[Disgraceful!]] Do you really want a single decision of an official, even the most important official of the European Commission, to introduce some worldview revolutions that violate the Polish family's home (Dawn) mira? Is that what you want? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We don't want to.]] [[To Brussels!]] Do you really want one official decision to impose migratory quotas, the number of migrants to be admitted in the Member States? Is this the European Union you want? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[This is the European Council.]] Exactly. In Poland the sovereign is the nation, not the official, even the highest official of the European Commission. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And learn that. The Constitution, to a hundred bisurmans, as Zagłoba used to say, although it's probably a little politically incorrect today. [[This is a German servant, this is Germanism.]] [[Time's up.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are at a very crucial moment, one can say, at a crossroads in the history of the European Union. Democracy is being tested. How far will the European nations go in this usurpation they are carrying out, implementing some of the institutions of the European Union? There are two attitudes we can take. [[Reparations from Brussels.]] Two attitudes. The first is that we can pretend that there is no such thing, that there is no process of crawling usurpation, that there is no violation of the fundamentals of a democratic state. But you can also say this: no, dear friends from Brussels, from the European Union, if you want Europe to become a non-national superstate, ask first the nations, society and states of the European Union. You didn't ask, you have no right to do that. [[Applause]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. In the last rallies you hosted, I heard how many people on your part referred to the words of President Lech Kaczyński. Don't do it, it's extremely indecent, shameless, and horrible. [[Applause]] [[It's you.]] [[You're cheating on his will.]] You have the right to do so such as the communists who were making a story about freedom and democracy in times when Polish patriots died in the cabals of Ubeck. You have no right to use what President Lech Kaczyński said. [[Applause]] You just don't have the right. If you choose the policy of subordinates, inferiorities, but I believe you'll come to your senses, I believe you'll join us... [[Voice from the hall: Truth in the eyes of the circle.]] If this is the policy you would like to choose, then know that as long as the Law and Justice are at the control of the government, we will not allow the sale of Polish sovereignty. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's coming soon.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Long live Poland! Long live Poland in the European Union, in the democratic European Union! Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Long live the president!]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u226	Thank you, Prime Minister. [[Voice from the room: What was that?]] [[Come with us.]] [[The voice from the hall: You're going to jail.]] [[Voice from the room: Through Terespol.]] We have formal requests submitted. Please, a formal proposal, Mr Boris Budka. One minute, please. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you're so brave, let's invite Professor Rzepliński or Professor Safjan here. But if you, Prime Minister Morawiecki, are such a Polish patriot, why do you keep ministers in the government who voted against ratification, traitors of Poland, as you said? Zibro, Wójcik - these are the people who voted against. [[Voice from the room: This is a formal conclusion?]] 20 members of the PiS voted against ratification and today you call them traitors. You are such a hypocrite as there was not in the history of Polish parliamentarianism. [[Applause]] You're a man who only sold his honor to please the ruling man. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You don't want polexit. If you repeat this a thousand times, we can be sure that your only goal is to get Poland out of the European Union and you are marching east. You're a bunch of pathological liars. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Call Tusk's mother-in-law.]] [[Voice from the room: There was no conclusion at all.]] [[Voice from the hall: Grzegorz to the heels you do not grow up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u228	Mr... Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, with a formal request. Please. That request was not a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal request for a recess until the Minister responsible for Education presents us with a proposal for an increase in salaries for teachers, which would concern at least the national average level, including as regards trainees' teachers. I believe that this is one of the most important issues, including that we should feel normal people, members of the European Union of no worse category, we must have a high level of education. I do not want to believe that anyone in this Chamber, including the honourable Members of the United Right, is opposed to strengthening Polish education. There are probably single Members who raise political capital because uneducated citizens, for example. They're against vaccination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u230	Thank you. As a formal request for a break has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[He took half an hour of our lives.]] [[What about the Nepotism Act?]] 442 Members voted. 207 - for, 230 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister had 30 minutes, I have 1 minute, so not to waste her... This is a formal proposal, Mr President. Let us show that we are all Europeans and, above all, Prime Minister Morawiecki. Welcome to the anthem of the European Union, Ode to Joy. Come on in, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: We have a Polish anthem.]] Mr. President. Mr. President. Mr Gawkowski. Mr Gawkowski. Please, now... Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, so stop acting like one. I'm taking your vote because it's not a formal motion. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] This is not a formal proposal, Mr President. I ask for a formal proposal, Mr. President. Can you make a formal conclusion? [[Some of the Members are up.]] Mr President, can you make a formal conclusion? Well, thanks, then. In that case... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No. You've got time. I'm asking for a formal motion, and you're standing, not saying anything. Mr President, make a formal request. Turn on the mic, Marshal, because you've taken the time that the applicant is entitled to. Please state your formal request. You're welcome. Because the Member doesn't respond... Mrs. Marshal! ...doesn't file a formal application... I'm filing a formal application. I'd just like to ask you not to disturb me. There is no such formal proposal, sir. I'd like us to hear... There is no formal application. Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr... Mrs. Marshal! I'm not leaving the platform until you allow me to listen to the anthem of the European Union. [[Applause]] I would like to ask you to step down, sir... I ask you to step out of the podium, sir. Mr President, I ask you to step out of the podium. For the third time, please. [[Please sing the hymn... listen to me...]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Voice from the hall: To kindergarten.]] [[Voice from the Chamber:...the flag of the European Union.]] [[Some Members chant: Sing! Sing! Sing!]] Please. You want a marshal so we can't listen to the anthem of the European Union. Are you ashamed of it? Is this right side of the room ashamed of the anthem of the European Union? [[Voice from the room: Shame! Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] I understand that we can shout out in this Chamber, but the anthem of the European Union, like the flag of the European Union, is equivalent in this room. We are a partner, a member of the European Union. Mr... Are you ashamed? Mr... Mrs. Marshal! [[It's not equivalent.]] Mr. Speaker! On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Four Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I declare... For singing the anthem of the European Union? ...that you're preventing the proceedings from being held. Mrs. Marshal... Step out of the podium, please. Step out of the podium, please. It is a shame for this House that part of the right hand does not want to sing the anthem of the European Union. We're Europeans. There's the flag of the European Union... Mr... Those words... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u232	Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] This is the plenary room. You want to sing, it's for the concert hall. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Clowns.]] At the moment we are on formal proposals, sir. We're here on formal applications. [[You mock the anthem of the European Union.]] Mr. Speaker, no. Do you understand that we are on formal applications? [[Voice from the hall:...eternal resting it to the church.]] Here you go, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. I hope so, sir, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, after an important speech by the Prime Minister, there should be a debate, but you are afraid of the words of the truth, you are afraid of the discussion. Secondly, the polexit password was not invented by the opposition. [[And by whom?]] In a rare flow of honesty, your secret plan revealed Marshal Terlecki. [[Applause]] It was after his speech that you adopted a resolution on the need to be in the European Union. Poland's presence in the European Union is a guarantee of Poland's independence. It freed us from Grandpa's nut grip. It is a space of development and security where the economy meets patriotism. All the activities that you are doing that brings Poland out of the European Union are disgraceful... [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and are a lie and treachery of the will of the Holy Father John Paul II. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] From the Lublin Union to the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Terlecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u235	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You're lying impudently. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I've written and maintained the thought that people like you, like your Tusk and similar... [[Do you hear me, Marshal?]] ...will lead to the collapse of the European Union. But that's all. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u236	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Robert Winnicki with a formal request. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the session be closed so that Prime Minister Morawiecki has a chance to deliver on his words. Prime Minister, you spoke here about the vote on the National Plan for Reconstruction. There was no such vote in the Seym. In the Seym, the European Union's own resources were put to the vote, i.e. Brussels, common EU debt, new EU taxes, compliance with European Union legislation, green order, [[Applause]] i.e. the liquidation of Polish energy, liquidation and cost when it comes to electricity. It was put to the vote in this Seym. And yes, you were in favour. And yes, you're doing exactly Donald Tusk's agenda... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You came from behind.]] ...because the whole theater consists of Morawiecki and Kaczyński fighting with Brussels, and Tusk fighting with Morawiecki and Kaczyński, is a theatre which unfortunately has been taking place in Poland for 30 years. All round-cloth forces operate in the same way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And all I can say to the Left is, "The banner will be taken out." Comrades, sit down. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Comrades, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u238	Thank you very much. Of course, there was no formal application. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1417. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1417 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 435 - for, 9 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No 1443. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1443, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill on the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1445. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1445 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 437 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002. We would like to return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Maria Konopnicka. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1579. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1579 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 444 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Konopnicka. We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on: Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1580. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1580 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 446 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Wanda Rutkiewicz. We would like to refer to item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Communications on draft resolutions on: Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1598. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1598 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 446 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Józef Wybicki. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1599. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1599 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 445 - for, 1 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1652-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Catherine Chechara to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Joint Commission: Education, Science and Youth and Health. Three amendments were tabled at the committee meeting yesterday. The committees have taken a negative view of these amendments and are asking the High Sejm to reject these amendments. In addition, they propose to vote on these amendments together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u240	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1652. The committees also present the conclusions of minorities and, in an additional report, the amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 1 in Article. 1 draft law. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of minority proposals. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 212-- for, 237-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete point 1 in Article. 1 draft law. This proposal brings together a second minority request. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the first and second requests of minorities would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 208 - for, 237 - against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1652, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 316 - for, 4 - against, with 128 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law. The additional committee report shall be in print 1618-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Patrick Wichr to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u241	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I present an additional report by the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law. On 13 October, after second reading, the High House re-addressed this paper to the Committee on Health, together with its amendments. The Health Committee has examined these amendments on 13 October and calls on the High Parliament to reject Amendment 1 and Amendments 2, 3 and 4. Copy. Amendments 2 and 4 should be voted together. The Commission is also, of course, asking for the whole project to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u242	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1618. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The applicants propose to delete point (a) of the first subparagraph. b in point. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 17 - for, 432 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, held off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 448 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1618, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 441 - for, no one was against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1645-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws, two amendments were tabled to this draft. Today, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has examined these amendments and recommends that the High House reject them. The Commission, of course, recommends that the House adopt this law, which is a very important law, introduces the principles of a circular economy in waste management, so it is important for this economy to be carried out rationally and for the benefit of local communities. We're very pleased to have her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u244	Thank you very much. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1645. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment to Article. 17 Act on packaging and packaging waste management applicants propose to give a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 41 - for, 235 - against, 171 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 19 in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 171 - for, 234 - against, 41 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1645, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 438 - for, 10 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate draft law amending the law - Hunting Law. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1400. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in the form of print No 1400, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 445 for, 1 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law - Hunting Law. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1655. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1655 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1634-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u245	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Infrastructure, which on 14 October considered only one amendment to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u246	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1634. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the only amendment, applicants propose, among others. the new wording of paragraph. Article 1 67 Law - Road traffic law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 46 - for, 400 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1634, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 444 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Traffic Law Act. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Committee on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. During the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. An objection has been raised in the light of the proposal to proceed to the third reading without referring again to the committee of this draft law. I will put this proposal to the vote. We proceed to the vote on the proposal to join the third reading without referring the bill back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the National Defence Commission. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a proposal for a third reading without referring the bill to the committee will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, no one stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1609. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 206 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1609, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Military Property Agency Act. We would like to refer to item 9 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1591-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Leszek Galemba to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u247	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday, during the second reading, a motion was made by the Civic Platform to reject the bill and two amendments were tabled. Today, the committee held and rejected a motion to reject a draft law as well as a negative one. recommends two amendments. High Seym! Polish Load for the Polish village. We will introduce changes that will free rural economic activity by reducing bureaucratic requirements. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It will also be made easier for the farmer to carry out business activities in his habitat. [[Get off!]] The Polish Order was announced a week ago by Law and Justice, today we implement it. First bill. The Civic Coalition is against it. [[Applause]] [[Russian order.]] The Civic Coalition is opposed to supporting the Polish village. [[Voice from the room: How much do fertilisers cost? Ammonia saltpeter?]] Mr President, the report. Law and Justice are solidarity with the Polish village. He supports her and will support her. We are grateful to the Polish village for its food security. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Report!]] [[Voice from the room: Who is it?]] Mr... ...reliability. This is President Kosiniak-Kamish and Donald Tusk... Mr... [[The marshal's talking to you.]] Sit down. Mr Galemba... I took the liberty of presenting this Polish Order for the Polish village... [[Voice from the room: On TV.]] ...because farmers deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u248	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1591. The Commission makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: A little embarrassment for a debut.]] 448 Members voted. 167 for, 273 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. In the first amendment to Article. 8 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 50 for, against - 262, 134 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 29a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 92 for, against - 352, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1655 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 278 - for, 164 - against, suspended 6. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands. We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the urgent draft law on the construction of state border security. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1668-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u249	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister! Ministers! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the urgent government draft law on the construction of state border security, print No 1657. The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 14 October 2021, request that the proposal to reject the draft law submitted at second reading by the Civic Platform be rejected and that all amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u250	Thank you very much. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1668. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 175 - for, 273 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 4 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7.9. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendments 1 and 2 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 209 - for, 240 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7 and 8. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 206 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to add paragraph. 9. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 97 for, 229 against, 120 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 3rd amendment and the 2nd minority proposal for Article. The applicants shall propose in paragraph 5. 3 point 2 add point. p. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment and the 2nd minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 206 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the offer. In the 4th Amendment and the 3rd Minority Proposal for Article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment and the 3rd minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 207 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the offer. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants propose the existing content to be marked as paragraph. 1 and add paragraph. 2. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 207 - for, 229 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 11a. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 92 for, 230 against, 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill in its entirety in print no. 1668 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 274 - for, 174 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the construction of state border security. [[Applause]] We are returning to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2022. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the draft budget law for 2022 at first reading, contained in print no. 1630, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 173 - for, 272 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2022, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 5 November 2021 and the Public Finance Committee shall adopt the report by 3 December 2021. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2022. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in the first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 1630 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 171 - for, 273 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1633 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 12 for, against - 433, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. At the same time, on the basis of Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 27 October 2021. We proceed to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Second reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2021 ( Portugal's presidency in the Council of the European Union) (prints No 1572 and 1626) - vote. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. Commission's report for print No 1626. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1572. In the first place, I will put the amendment tabled for the draft resolution to the vote. The amendment proposes that the Sejm reject the information of the Council of Ministers. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 219 - for, 229 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in full from print No 1572, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 228 - for, 215 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2021 ( Portugal's presidency in the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days (prints Nos 1640 and 1649). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u251	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days, print No. 1649. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 11 October this year. this resolution to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Commission considered this resolution at its meeting on 12 October, during which 7 amendments were tabled. The Commission asks the High Sejm to accept amendments 1, 2, and 3 and to reject the others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u252	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 Amending Act, containing amendments to the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 6 for, against -441, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) The 2nd Law of the amended Senate proposes amendments to the definition of the concept of "predominant activity." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Six for, against - 440, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6 of the amended Act, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 4 and to delete paragraph 4. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 212, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 6 of the Law of the Revised Senate proposes to add paragraph. 5a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 273 - for, against - 173, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 6 of the amended Act, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 6 and the deletion of paragraph 6. 3 and 7. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 273 - for, against - 174, 1 abstained. The Parliament rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws (prints 1643 and 1651). I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By virtue of the article. 54 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I hereby present in an essential and conscientious manner a report to the committee. I propose that amendments 1, 2 and 6 be rejected and that the others be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u254	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 41 of the Act - The Penal Code of the applicant proposes to amend the introduction into calculation in § 1aa. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 241 - for, 205 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 41 of the Act - The Penal Code of the applicant proposes amendments to paragraphs 1 aa and 1 ab. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes among others. Amendment to Article 25 Laws on political parties. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 4th Amendment to e.g. Article 2 Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Public Finance Act, the Senate proposes a new wording of point 12. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 11th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes to amend the provision on the entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 1 for, against - 446, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws (Prints No 1641 and 1667). I ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws in print No. 1641. Your Marshal addressed the Senate resolution to the committee on 11 October 2021, which contained three amendments. The Commission proposes rejecting the 1st amendment and adopting the 2nd and 3rd amendments, except that the 2nd and 3rd amendments propose to vote together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u256	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 45 of the Act - The Act on Civil Status of the Senate proposes that a new wording be given. from 2 to 4 and a change in the mouth. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 2. The Senate proposes to add an article. 4a to the amending act. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and certain other laws (prints No 1642 and 1650). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the revision of the Foreigners Act and some other laws. At its meeting on 13 October, this document was dealt with by the committee and asked the Sejm to reject the first amendment and to accept amendments 2 and 3, except that amendments 2 and 3 should vote together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u258	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 the Senate in point 3 proposes that in Article. 303b add paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 239 - for, 206 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 1 The Senate in point 7 proposes an amendment to point 1a. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 2. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 437, 10 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws (Prints No 1644 and 1647). I ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, prints No 1644 and 1647. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 11 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering the above-mentioned resolution at its meeting on 13 October 2021, proposes to the High House that of the 14 amendments tabled by the Senate accept 13 and one amendment reject, with the assumption that amendments 2, 7 and 14 as well as 5, 6 and 9 and 12 and 13. vote jointly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u260	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Road Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 39a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 The Senate proposes a different wording of points 2 and 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 446, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 39b The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1a in the first indent. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 7 and 14. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd, 7th and 14th amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 4 for, 443 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment to the article. 39c paragraph. 4 and 5 The Senate proposes a different sound of the joint part. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 213, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments 4 and 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Road Traffic Law. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes to add point 21b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 445, 2 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 100aa paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes amendments to point 7. Amendments 6 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th, 6th and 9th amendments would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 7 to 11. The Senate reported it to the article. 4 amending act containing amendments to the Act on driving vehicles. In the 8th amendment to the article. 33 The Senate proposes a different wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 442, 2 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 99 The Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 446, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 101 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 32a. Amendment 13 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against 12 and 13. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 2 for, against -444, 2 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. This concludes the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on State aid in the raising of children and certain other laws (prints Nos 1635 and 1648). I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and certain other laws, print No 1635. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 11 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Social Policy and Family Committee, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 12 October, asks that the Senate's resolution be rejected by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u262	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 17 September 2021 amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 17 September 2021 amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 237 - for, 209 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and certain other laws (prints No 1639 and No 1654). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and certain other laws contained in print No 1639. On 11 October 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The Commissions: Public Finance and Local Government and Regional Policy, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 12 October, propose that the 30 amendments tabled by the Senate 19 be rejected and 11 accept, including 12 amendments, we will vote together. In total, we will vote on amendments 3, 4, 19, 24, 26 and 27, followed by amendments 5 and 18, 13 and 14 and 21 and 29. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u264	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 14. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the law on the income of local government units. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to add a new point before point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 - for, 218 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to add a new point before point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, against 218, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to add a new point before point 1. Amendments 4, 19, 24, 26 and 27 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 4, 19, 24, 26 and 27 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 229 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes that in Article. 9 and Article 9 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States Amendment 18 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against Amendments 5 and 18 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes amendments to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 14 (1) of the Amending Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 - for, 208 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. The 11th Law of the Reformed Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 6 and to delete paragraph. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes amendments to point 12. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 1 point 14 of the Law amending the Senate proposes a different wording of point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 231 - for, 215 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to point 18 of Article. 1 amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 37 of the amended law, the Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 1b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 37a of the amended law, the Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was for, 447 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 13 and 14. The Senate proposes legislative amendments. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 14 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 446, 1 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 3rd Amending Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The 4th Amendment Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 219, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the letter b in Article. Paragraph 6 (1) of the Amending Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment to the article. 6 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. No one was against 433, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 7th Amendment Act. Amendment 29 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 21 and 29 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 - for, 218 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 22nd amendment to the article. The 8th Law amending the Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 230 for, 217 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment, the Senate proposes to amend point 2 in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 7th Amendment Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 1 for, against - 447, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The 15th Amendment Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 28th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The 20th Amendment Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 230 for, against - 216, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 26 amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 230 for, against - 217, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law - Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning (Prints No 1636 and 1658). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On yesterday's joint committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, discussed the Senate resolution on the draft law amending the Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning. I would like to remind you that the law adopted by the Sejm concerns the construction of free standing, not more than two-storey single-family residential buildings with a building area not exceeding 70 m2 and individual recreation buildings. The committees, of course, considered the reasons for the Senate. They were not persuaded by the senate's justification that the application of the notification procedure with the construction project would exclude the application of other building laws or regulations standardising the location of buildings. And the fact that Poland does not end in big cities, and in smaller towns where developers don't work, Poles also want to live in comfortable, functional houses that they can afford. These arguments prevaild and therefore the joint committees, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy recommend that the High House reject the Senate's proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u266	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects Senate resolutions by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate resolution, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 17 September 2021 amending the Construction Law and the Land Planning and Development Act. The committees are asking for this resolution to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 17 September 2021 amending the Construction Law and the Land Planning and Development Act will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 267 - for, 178 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Land Planning. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021 (prints No 1637 and 1660). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled by the Senate to the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021. The Committee on Public Finance recommends rejecting the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u268	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate amendment. In amendment to Annex 2 in Part 29: The Senate's national defence proposes to reduce expenditure by PLN 6300 million to increase subsidies to the National Health Fund. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 241 - for, 207 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Act on the Income of Local Government Units (Prints No 1638 and 1659). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Seven amendments were tabled by the Senate to amend the Around Budget Act 2021. The Committee on Public Finance, after consideration, recommends that four amendments be rejected and three amendments adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u270	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the title of the Act. Amendments 4, 5 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 4, 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 9a the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 71a Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 1 for, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 70e and 70f Act on income of local government units. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 1 for, 436 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. I would like to remind you that the clubs and the circle have applied for a supplement to the agenda. The Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greeni has submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Chairman of the Committee of the Council of Ministers for National Security and Defence Affairs on the state of cybersecurity, as well as details of the hacker attack on the e-mail box of the Minister - member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Council of Michał Dworczyk and his wife. The Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, PPS, Together, Spring of Robert Biedron) has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the law - Penal Code, - first reading of the parliamentary draft law on the regulation of reprivatisation claims, - first reading of the parliamentary bill on safe abortion and on education on health and sexuality. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 requested the following item to be added: Government information on the indication of the reasons, effects and consequences of the order in the form of a provisional measure by the Court of Justice of the European Union immediately stopping coal extraction in the Turów mine. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 I will put the proposals to the vote in turn. We are voting on a proposal for information on state cybersecurity and hacker attacks on mailboxes. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For-- 210, 236-- against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the bill amending the law - Penal Code. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 177 - for, against - 267, 1 abstention. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for a first reading of the bill on the regulation of reprivatization claims. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 198 - for, 243 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a first reading of the draft law on safe abortion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 165 - for, 266 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal for government information on the identification of the causes, effects and consequences of the order by the Court of Justice of the European Union to immediately cease coal mining in the Turin Mine. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I know, I see, I see. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 1671). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Do any of you wish to speak on these candidates? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 1671, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 419 - for, 1 - against, 16. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 minutes 11 hours 18 min 18]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We're going to ask questions. I am the first to ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Nowacka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today is a special day, a feast of teachers - teachers who shape future generations and whose task is to shape future citizens and citizens of the Republic. On this day it turns out that the Minister, so busy talking to Members at the moment, has only bad news for them. The rules on the settlement of the penny are changing. There is no money in the budget for the promised additional salaries for teachers. The salaries are rising everywhere, and teachers' salaries will be frozen. Polish young people are threatened by the fact that teachers will leave the profession... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ma'am, can I have a moment of your time? Ladies and gentlemen, especially on the right-hand side of the room, I would like to ask you very much to silence the discussion, possibly to move it out of the Seym. Today, the Civic Coalition organized a meeting with teachers, including those from small schools, from rural schools or peri-urban schools, overcrowded. They're asking us questions. Like a teacher who will have an increased salary, e.g. A physics teacher who's supposed to drive from school to school when it's a distance of a dozen kilometers? According to new assumptions, she will have to quit her job or qualify in other areas, and there is no money to do so. How will this affect the quality of education, Minister? How will this affect the future of Polish children? Teachers ask us how to teach in absolutely overcrowded schools, because once again the ministry has no idea for schools where more than 1,500 children are currently being taught. Teachers lack and earn little as usual. Polish education, and this must be said clearly on the day of the teacher, is approaching the edge. Teachers get old, they get paid less and less, the profession of teacher loses prestige, and the pandemic has affected them so that they, and the children are in an ever-increasing crisis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we expect specific answers from the Minister. When will Polish teachers start earning better? When are you going to start caring about their rights? When will you take care of Polish children so that their educational future is safe? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u272	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be made clear that for several years the Government of Law and Justice has spent considerable additional resources on the functioning of education in Poland. Education subsidy, the main element in adding funds to what local governments have, is about PLN 10 billion more than when the term of the rule of law and justice began. These are very serious measures, which additionally flow to local governments. During this period there were several increases which led to the fact that after a few years of stagnation teachers received about 30% higher wages. However, we believe that this is not enough, and that is why we have decided to propose another phase of improving the prestige of the teacher's profession, as Minister Czarnek has repeatedly said, and to allocate additional funds mainly to increase salaries. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, step out of the room.]] However, according to the Prime Minister's decisions, we assume that this should be linked to a somewhat remodeled model of professional pragmatism of teachers. [[Gentlemen, step out of the room.]] Some of the steps that we have already taken, as Minister Czarnek has said many times, concern the re-bureaucratisation of the teacher's work, which should slow down some of the time that he has spent so far in completing the documentation. In this way, we want to make sure that teachers spend more time in contact primarily with their students, but also partly with their parents. You yourself have repeatedly indicated in your speeches that the pandemic period has caused the teacher to communicate more frequently with his ward. Hence, we proposed that, together with a very serious increase in wages, reaching up to thirty-six percent in the case of start-ups, we propose an increase in the so-called salary. an array. I will remind those who are less aware that the teacher has a 40-hour week's work, so it is written in the Teacher's Charter for many, many years, but at the same time the so-called one has been allocated within this penny. Table classes, i.e. lessons conducted directly by a teacher with students, and this is much smaller than in the overwhelming majority of OECD countries, sometimes even about 10 hours. The average is clearly greater than Poland: 25 or 26 hours. We have therefore proposed that the new salary from September next year should be 22 hours for most table teachers. We presented such proposals in a meeting with trade unions and self-government corporations. In addition, we pointed out that it would be worthwhile to have these classes that the teacher is conducting - as the trade unionists have repeatedly said, as well as the teachers themselves - e.g. meetings with parents, with students or some of the classes that should be held at school are in the so-called. availability time. Right now, we've proposed that it be eight hours a week. In this way, the teacher, who has not been recorded in any way, will be able to clearly indicate and no one outside will say that the teacher works 18 hours or 22 hours. It will be at least 30 hours, as we suggest, that would be the total length of table time and availability time at school. We do not want this time to be recorded in a way that is somewhat bureaucratic, it is enough to simply note that the teacher spent this time on classes which he is obliged to lead, including among others. to contact the student or the parents. The Member mentioned the lack of funds for the proposed increases, which is not true. We have calculated that together, in order to achieve the expected increase in teachers' salaries, we need several billion zlotys. We estimate that the cost of wage increases and changes in professional pragmatism will amount to around PLN 8 billion per year, i.e. by PLN 1 billion we increase education subsidy in 2022 - this is the assumption - and in the following years it will increase by more than 2.5% That's definitely bigger. Never in the history of democratic governments in Poland has there been such a serious increase in subsidies. More than three billion reserves are planned in the next year's budget to be used to implement these changes in professional pragmatism. Once the relevant statutory changes have been made, the money from this reserve will be mobilised. This is not an amount of PLN 8 billion, because, as I mentioned, the increase is to be launched from 1 September 2021 and will therefore cover only a period of 4 months this year. Contrary to what you are saying, it is clear that we are assuming a huge increase in additional resources to cover the increased salaries of teachers. And so, today the teacher has less than PLN 2950 of basic salary, while after the introduction of the new model he would earn more than PLN 4000. Here's the biggest scale of the raise. You have also said on several occasions that the teacher who starts work should be financially appreciated and his remuneration should be competitive in relation to salaries in other professions. And we agree on that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The same is true of the average wage. It will increase very clearly. In the case of a qualified teacher today, this amount is 6.5 thousand. PLN, after the change it will amount to almost 8 thousand. PLN, so this is by far more than the average wage in the national economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u274	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u275	Minister! How come you promise only what's gonna happen in the future? Today we are discussing the budget and in this budget the education subsidy is not increasing, while you are announcing that sometime there, in the future, the subsidy will increase. 7 years you rule and boast of the fact that the subsidy increased by 10 billion, when in the days of the Platform and PSL it increased by more than 12 billion PLN. So what are you guys bragging about? What about the teachers who make minimum wage today? The minimum wage has been rising since January, while the minimum salary of teachers is not increasing, right? So these teachers haven't had a salary increase since January, and the rest of the group will have a salary increase. You increase the teacher's salary not by 4 hours, but by 12 hours (the bell) and you say that the salary increase will be 30%. All this somewhere is suspended in the air, teachers don't see that money. You're talking about some increase in the budget, and there's just no money in the budget. You're cheating teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u276	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u277	As I understand it, I will also be able to take a little longer, as will the Member. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, once again, we've done some things. The increase in teachers' salaries over the last few years is about 30%, so, Madam, please see what has already happened. The increase in subsidies by PLN 10 billion is all reality. Over 3.5 billion, almost PLN 4 billion in the budget reserve for changes in professional pragmatism are reality. So listen to what I'm saying, not just propaganda. I also talked about numbers that can compare the teacher's salary today and in the future. And even if this teacher starts work - I will repeat again - today 2950 zł, and after the changes 4010 zł, the teacher graduated - today 4046 zł, and after the changes 5130 zł. [[In 12 extra hours.]] The comparable remuneration with the average remuneration in the economy is the average remuneration of the teacher, i.e. consisting of roughly the same elements. Today, the average salary of what I remember is about 5.5,000. zł. Today, the starting teacher has an average salary of 3.5 thousand. zł, and he will have almost 5 thousand. zł. The diplomat today has an average salary of PLN 6510 and after the changes he will have almost 8 thousand. zł. There's a difference. or not, Member? Listen to what you're saying from the podium, and possibly comment on it, not just express your dislike for what we're doing. There was also mention of overcrowded schools. As I understand it, Commissioner, there is a charge, above all, against local governments, whose main task is to administer schools, organise school work, but also to finance reconstruction, renovation or possible expansion. I agree with you that unfortunately there are overcharged schools - it's true. It is so strange that they are most often in the cities ruled by your colleagues, by the presidents of the Civic Platform, among others. in Warsaw... [[Reloaded schools are underneath the cities.]] ...who don't think that, along with the growing settlements, the new blocks are being built, people also need social facilities, such as nursery, kindergarten or school. [[That's not what the teachers said today.]] That's, among other things. Therefore, we have launched additional funds from the Government Fund for Local Investments or from the Polish Government, so that local governments can... [[And you gave yours.]] ...also apply for additional funds. I hope that the President of Warsaw will perform... [[The city didn't get it.]] Please allow the Minister to speak. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: Dear Messengers, I didn't bother the ladies. As I understand it, culture... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I'm talking about me, please refer to me. I have listened to what the ladies say, I try to answer the ladies' questions honestly, and I expect ladies to behave culturally also towards a person who has different views, but who is trying to answer your questions honestly. Try to appreciate it. These overloaded schools (the bell) are unfortunately not fulfilling tasks by local governments, which is why we have launched additional government programs to help local governments. Some of them took advantage of it. About PLN 2 billion was just for educational expenses. Please also use these measures, which are within the scope of the Polish Order. Some of them will be for education. Let me remind you that more than PLN 1 billion has recently been spent on funding the equipment of schools with digital devices in order to facilitate remote teaching. Appreciate it. PLN 1 billion for future laboratories, i.e. the equipment of technical studios in all primary schools, not only local schools, but also non-self-government schools. It is also an active table, a programme to support school equipment, it is a national programme for the development of reading and many other programs. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u278	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Ministry of Education and Science carries out piloting of the program "Meet Poland" in which schools can receive funds to finance trips to museums, memorial sites, cultural objects or institutions that promote the achievements of science. The aim of the programme is to support teachers and enrich and make the teaching process more attractive. It is also a way to learn about our national and cultural heritage and to popularize Polish science. Schools receive up to 80% funding under this scheme the planned costs, i.e. 5 to 15 thousand. zł depending on the duration of the trip, whether it is one-, two - or three days. Importantly, for each age group of primary and secondary schools, the Ministry of Education and Science, in cooperation with experts, has developed plans for trips that take into account specific educational points. Of course, everything is adapted to the age and level of students' development. The piloting of the program was a huge success. Initially, it was worth PLN 15 million, but due to the great interest the resort allocated an additional PLN 10 million. At the moment this is 25 million PLN. Minister! I have questions. What number of schools have now benefited from the possibility of joining the What number of trips has been carried out, how much further is in the plan to benefit from the funding, and do you already have any information on the main objectives of the programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u280	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you so much for these questions. Indeed, it is one of several programs proposed by the Ministry of Education and Science, which is intended to support local governments, but above all students, parents, teachers in the implementation of important educational tasks. This is additional funding from the state budget, which helps to enrich, to make it more attractive to teach children. A similar idea appeared more than two years ago. Unfortunately, the pandemic prevented us from implementing this programme several months earlier and only today, when the level of discharge allows us to look to the future more calmly, it was possible to run this programme. As you mentioned, indeed, in September this year we launched a programme to finance school trips for the first time. We thought that such a form of teaching, raising children would make it possible to familiarize them with the most important cultural monuments and teach them about Polish nature or technological progress in a slightly different way. These tours should take place under four programmes: the footsteps of the Polish Underground State, the footsteps of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński - this year was beatification, is the year of Stefan Wyszyński - the program of culture and national heritage, as well as the greatest achievements of Polish science. We are aware that these trips should be adapted to the age of the students, so they are addressed to the three age groups, to the youngest children of classes 1 and 3, then to the class. 4, 8 and secondary schools. Each local government, after collecting information from both local and non-governmental school directors, could apply to the Ministry of Education and Science for funding these trips. As she mentioned, because of the limited resources, we initially assumed that it would be only PLN 15 million, but this was managed to increase to almost PLN 25 million, and work is currently underway to increase this programme by an additional few tens of millions. This is also the result of the intervention of your Members, because you have noticed that many local governments could not yet receive funding. If the Committee on Public Finance agrees and the budget changes accordingly, there will be several dozen additional million zlotys this year with the passers-by [[Applause]] the possibilities for next year. In the following year we predict that it will be at least PLN 100 million plus perhaps some of those that will not be spent this year. A total of almost 3,600 applications were received on those days when applications could be submitted. Some of them had some formal errors, therefore around 3500, and exactly 3470 trips were formally qualified for funding. The number of students who will be able to benefit from this funding is over 156 thousand. There's over 2,000. schools and 827 local authorities, local government units that could benefit from this. The most active in this program was the Małopolskie Voivodship - more than 600 applications, more than 600 trips, Podkarpackie -more than 360, Silesian - more than 300, similarly pomorskie, other to a slightly smaller extent. Most visited places. The Ministry has identified several hundred important places in total because of our tradition, history, culture, but also interesting exhibitions that students should see during these trips. We assume that every day young people, students should visit two of the listed places on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science. For the youngest children, the Copernicus Science Centre is most frequently visited. These older children, from grade 4 and 8 of primary school, also visited the Copernicus Science Centre, but also the Warsaw Uprising Museum or the Museum of the Residence of the Kings and the Republic of Warsaw. This list of cultural sites, historical sites, museums, was created in cooperation, among others. with the Minister of Culture, because it was difficult not to take into account important museum buildings, important cultural objects, which are run by state institutions, as well as local government institutions. For the time being, this is piloting, but we are, of course, also open to the voices of all the environments to enrich this list of places that students should visit. Here we have used consultations and this list, in addition to the indications of the Minister of Culture, includes other historical objects or museums. It will certainly be further enriched and this will probably also make it easier to organize these trips. After all, these youngest students do not always have to go straight to the other end of Poland. It is also worth learning local and regional history to visit these cultural objects that are located near them. Thanks to this, the cost of the trip will be much lower, and the 5,000. PLN maximum funding for one day can suffice for a larger (Bingle) group of students. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u282	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u283	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Even today at the end of this day, we want to start together by giving all the teachers, all the school workers, but also all the students the best wishes for the National Education Day. It seems that the programme "Meet Poland" fits beautifully into what is happening in our Polish schools and what is currently being carried out by the Ministry, so that I also give huge thanks for this programme, for the fact that the Minister has already said what I was about to ask whether it will continue. 100 million PLN, of which the Minister said it would be not only a continuation, but also an increase in funds, that is what brings great joy. Thank you very much and we ask you to add every possible amount to this money. But I have another question. The Minister mentioned adding places to those that could have been visited so far. When that list was made, there were phone calls to me as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Gorlice also has places connected with Łukasiewicz, or science, but it is also the place of the great Gorlice battle. Will the consultation be able to benefit from this? Because I am from Małopolska, all the more thank you, because it was really difficult to organize a trip at school sometimes if you had to fully cover its costs, because Warsaw is far away. Thank you very, very much on behalf of all of us and I ask you for further consultations next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u284	Thank you very much, also for your wishes for the teachers. We're all joining in on our wishes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u285	Of course, Mr. Marshal, we also thanked all the teachers, all the teachers, the educators, because today is National Education Day, so they should be warmly thanked for what they do for their hard but very important work. Today, in the Ministry, I apologize, there were official public ceremonies at the NAP, some teachers could receive awards, distinctions and decorations. So that I thank you very much for reminding me that this is an important day for teachers. We're going to continue this program. Like I said, it was piloting. There have also been stumblings, but there are no mistakes made by those who do nothing. We draw conclusions. Surely the number of places that can be visited on this list will be increased. Please send your proposals to the Ministry and gradually follow-up cultural centres, and further museums will be included. As I said, we want to have as many places as possible, so that at least part of the trips take place on a regional scale, so that as many young people as possible can benefit from this programme, after all, 5 000. PLN is not enough for a trip for all students from a given school. For the time being, we have limited this to one trip to the school in the case of secondary schools, in the case of primary schools to two trips - the first for the youngest ones, the second for the slightly older ones, from classes IV-VIII. Depending on the number of notifications, it may be possible to increase the coverage of this program. She pointed out a very important point. We wanted all children, including the poor, to benefit from such trips. The financial barrier has so far been the main barrier that has prevented this. That's 5,000 from here. zł and funding up to 80% of the cost of the trip is, I think, an offer that will allow for a very wide organisation of trips for the widest possible group of people. I'm sure we'll continue this program. We also think that this is not only attractive, but also necessary. We're betting on patriotic upbringing, attachment to tradition. This programme makes it easier for us to continue this type of activity by the Ministry, but also, of course, teachers. They are the ones who, in direct contact with the students, transmit values which should continue to the next generations of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. We're going back to our original order. I would like to ask Mr Jan Warecha, the Law and Justice question. Please turn on the microphone or come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In March this year. the government has launched another edition of nationwide financing for the removal of asbestos-containing products. There will be further effects of this support on the scale of the country, which you will probably tell us about in a moment. The amount of the subsidy depends on the revenues of the municipality for 2020 per capita. It's so-called. indicator G. Support, the financial assembly of asbestos disposal in Podkarpacie is as follows: 60% - National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, 25% - Regional environmental and water management fund, 15% - the municipality. Here it should be recalled that since 2019 due to the creation of the State Water Farm Polish voivodship environmental protection funds have lost some of the proceeds of these funds, about 50%. This caused them not to be able to implement the rendering purposes in a manner appropriate to the expectations of the municipalities, even in conjunction with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Each local government entity, of course, expects as much external support as possible. Since the municipalities do not want to participate in costs in a higher percentage than before, the process of eliminating asbestos cover could therefore be delayed. We are all aware that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is making payments to the Government Road Development Fund, that other priority programmes are being implemented, such as clean air, my water. Minister! At the last Convention on Law and Justice, during the announcement of a groundbreaking programme for agriculture and the Polish countryside in Przysudze, the announcement of financial support of local authorities in the process of waste disposal (the asbestos bell) in the area of roof replacement, materials purchase and assembly was made. Do you have more detailed knowledge of what we can expect in the future in this regard? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Now I ask you to respond to Minister Jack Ornament.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u289	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for that question. It concerns an extremely important topic of disposal and disposal of asbestos-containing elements. So far, in terms of the years 2019-2023, the national fund in cooperation with the voivodship environmental funds has spent more than PLN 100 million. In the future, as the Member pointed out in the question, we are planning to continue this programme in an extended formula within the framework of the Polish Order. Financial assistance for local authorities is essential here. I would like to point out that the National Environment Fund programme has changed in 2021. These changes consisted in the fact that the national environmental fund increased the funding allocated to the voivodship funds after the recruitment issue was announced. As far as the voivodship funds and the national fund are concerned, as I mentioned, these funds that have already been spent, show that there is a high demand, and in the current changes, the idea of the national fund is of course to carry out the continuation so that the increased funding can be allocated to local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u290	Thank you very much. The second question will also be asked by Mr Jan Warzecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u291	Minister! As we know, rendering needs mainly concern rural areas where asbestos roofing from barn, barn and pigsty are gradually disappearing. The plant in Szczucin, which produced asbestos roofing for 39 years, was located in Małopolska on the border of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, which is why so many of these toxic roofs remain on our territory. Minister! In view of the dynamism of this process, I would like to ask whether the government is considering modifying the basic criteria of the incentive system, e.g. moving away from the wealth index or e.g. Inclusion in the future as a criterion for financial assembly not only of the G indicator but also of per capita income including e.g. the compensatory subsidy received by 2100 municipalities, i.e. 80% All the municipalities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u292	Thank you very much. We ask Mr Jack Decoration again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u293	In this respect, Mr Marshal, the decision can only be taken after the 2019/2023 perspective has been completed, but after discussions with the national management of the fund, we know that such modifications are planned, so if you allow it, that kind of details will be presented to you in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u294	Thank you very much. Now we move on to the next question that Mr Marek Rutka, the Left, will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The situation of staff in state medical rescue has been difficult for years. The lack of properly educated and legitimized rescuers is estimated to be 5 and 8,000. persons. All this makes the vast majority of rescuers work well over 160 hours a month. Recorders are able to work up to 400 hours a month. It is estimated that if all rescuers worked in the penny dimension, at least 20% of the ambulances would not be left on the streets due to lack of cast. In August this year. I've executed a message check in the capital emergency room. The control showed the scale of pathology that has plagued medical rescue in Poland for years. Out of 579 paramedics on duty in the Warsaw emergency room, 573 worked on civil law contracts, and only 6 were on the job. A large number of pronouncements of civil law contracts have led to numerous shortage of ambulances in many cities in Poland, among others. in Warsaw there were 30% of ambulances without cast, in Poznań - 65, Inowroclaw - 60, Bydgoszcz - 30, and for example. In Aleksandrów Kujawski or Łomianki ambulances did not leave at all. It is worth recalling the opinion of the Ombudsman of October Ub. Medical paramedics have not been properly regulated since the start of the core teams in 2007. Lack of appropriate solutions, unclear interpretation of existing rules may endanger the life and health of patients. Currently, medical rescuers are the only professional group among the basic medical professions that does not have their own self-government. In view of the limited speaking time, I will proceed to specific questions with the Minister. What systemic steps did the health resort take to ensure that civil law agreements concluded with rescuers were not the norm, as is the case in most emergency stations, but only an option that is actually a free choice? Question two: At what stage are the work on the Act on Medical Rescue? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is worth noting here that rescuers are now treated as a different medical profession. And last question: Does the government party intend to introduce regulations establishing a medical emergency government, as is the case with nurses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Have I made it clear that he has already exhausted the subject, or will he still want to continue? I see. Now I ask Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u297	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for these questions, because they are very important. As for the question raised about the medical lifeguard's profession law, this law was entered into the government's legislative work under UD44. They took place quite a long time ago, in June this year, they took on significant acceleration after a public consultation which had been carried out earlier. Once again, a government consultation was held to move the bill to the permanent committee to go further. The current situation is that we are planning that at the end of November and December this project will be at the stage of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. In December he will be in the government and we plan that in January 2022 this bill will be passed to the Sejm. On 27 October, this law will be approved by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. What does this bill contain? The question was whether there would be a professional government there. Yes, of course, there will be a professional self-government, the law will regulate the professional responsibility of medical rescuers, will regulate the pursuit of the medical profession in a comprehensive way and, of course, a legal framework for this professional self-government will be created. What is very important, for all medical professions we have also introduced a 6-day training leave, which we have already included in the evaluation of health benefits, which has been presented by the Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tarification, and this is taken into account. As far as there are more medical rescuers, so that contract-orders are not the norm, although it is not so everywhere, to a large extent, we agree completely that the basis of the medical rescue system should be the contract of employment. Some of the paramedics asked us to ban contracts, civil law contracts, but we assumed we wouldn't ban them, but we would promote employment contracts. Therefore, we are working on a system standardization of remuneration, among others. an agreement has been signed with lifeguards, which shall take account of the restoration of exit allowances. And this happened today, at today's session of the Sejm, when all the clubs, all the Members, in the case of this amendment, voted in favour and, of course, it has already entered into the law on healing activities, so such an addition will be. We estimate that this profession will enjoy increasing authority, and more and more people will want to work. Of course, we would like to see that the number of extra hours that some rescuers carry out is not so high, because it is already dangerous at some point and for the workers themselves who work so much, and for the people they look after. Besides, as in the whole health system, this is an undesirable situation. This is why all this work is being done. These are all the questions you've asked now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u298	Thank you very much, Minister. And again, I ask Mr Mark Rutka to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u299	I thank the Minister for answering his question. The answer is exhaustive, so that I refuse to ask an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u300	Thank you very much. And we move on to the next question. Now Mrs Ewa Szymańska, the Law and Justice will ask them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u301	Dear Marshal, I have a question for the Minister of Health, too, because family members of patients with rare diseases come to me. It turns out that they are a big problem for the sick themselves and for their families, especially since rare diseases also apply to children. It is estimated that this applies in Poland approx. Two, three million people. Some time ago, changes in the treatment of these diseases were announced and measures were expected to increase for this purpose. I therefore ask for information on what has been done in this case. What measures have been taken and if measures for this purpose have been increased this year and how much of these measures have been foreseen in the Budget Act for next year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u302	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Miłkowski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u303	Thank you very much. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Marshal, Thank you so much for that question. In fact, rare diseases are a de facto very important part of the treatment, an important part of the citizens, because it is estimated that in fact about 2 million people suffer from rare diseases, but you have to realise that many of these diseases obviously do not have a significant effect on their health, not all rare diseases have established treatments, there are sometimes medicines for them, but more and more... Here we see an incredible revolution in research into rare diseases, in new molecules, in new medicines, in new therapies for patients with rare diseases. In this regard, in order to improve the condition to determine the treatment, we have established that the government has adopted a national program for the treatment and diagnosis of rare diseases. It was announced in September this year. and is currently being implemented. There's a few tasks out there that need to be done. The first task is to set up centres for the treatment of rare diseases, expert treatment centres, because we know that specialization must take place here, these are very small numbers of people and these units must be specialized. Anyway, that's the way it is. Many Polish centres cooperate in Europe, is in the national network of European centres for the treatment and diagnosis of rare diseases. This is very important. In this respect we will also place a very strong emphasis on diagnosis, rapid diagnostics. In general rare diseases are difficult to differentiate and often this time to diagnose, to determine treatment is quite long. Clearly, it can be shortened. This is the purpose of this task, so that the best specialists do this with the possibility of diagnosing, in particular the extension of genetic diagnostics and molecular diagnostics in this area - and that is what we want to spend extra money on. In addition, a register of rare diseases is still to be created, thanks to which we will monitor these patients, the effects of treatment, and the time of diagnosis, so as to learn as much as possible, to improve this system, because only when we know exactly what the results are, can this be achieved. Of course, we also want to make a passport for these patients with rare diseases, where they will have full information, a uniform history of the disease, so that we know how they are monitored, so that there is a uniform medical record. When it comes to medicines that are very important in rare diseases, recently, as I said, there is a revolution in the world. More and more drugs are coming into use. Of course, often clinical trials, which are made for patients with rare diseases, are not of the highest quality, because these patients are few, but in recent years Poland has greatly expanded their availability in the health care system. In the early years of operation of the Refund Act it was from two to five modern therapies for rare diseases per year, this year we adopted 20, last 16. So more and more... Very often these are proposals that were submitted 3 and 4 years ago, we are now catching up, we are financially able to meet this task to finance these technologies, and this is also served by the established Medical Fund, which in the field of medicines, in the financing of innovative technologies is intended for oncology, but also for the treatment of patients with rare diseases. So that the situation is improving in this respect, but I must also say that we stand - and Poland, and the world - before the very difficult task of trying to finance the expectations of pharmaceutical companies, the expectations of owners, where these expectations are very high, exceeding normal thinking of healthy people.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u304	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank you for the strategy for rare diseases prepared at the Ministry of Health. As the Minister said, rare diseases are very rare diseases that are mostly genetically dependent on chronic and often severe outcomes. In about half of the cases, they come out at children's age and both parents and patients suffer very much. That is why I would like to thank the Minister very much for his great contribution to building this truly responsible strategy. My question concerns SMA diseases, namely spinal muscle atrophy: Will the Ministry continue to finance early diagnosis, because this program, which is currently running, has actually overtaken other European countries and parents often ask questions (The Bell), will they still be able to use this type of activity of the Ministry of Health? Once again, Minister, a great bow for leaning after 12 years that patients with these diseases can be financed and taken care of by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u306	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u307	Thank you very much. The question concerns spinal muscle atrophy, diagnosis of these patients and treatment. Since 2019, together with Minister Łukasz Szumowski, we have negotiated an agreement for the treatment of patients with spinal muscle atrophy and it has been negotiated completely different from in many European countries. We negotiated for the entire Polish population, for the entire population, which has indications for treatment according to the characteristics of the medicinal product. We didn't disable anyone from the drug program. Currently, over 800 people have been treated. It is estimated that these people can be about 1000. In addition, all patients who have volunteered are included in the treatment. This year we launched a newborn screening program for another, 30th disease. In the second day, they have collected blood and transmitted to one of the eight laboratories of the Mother and Child Institute and cooperating centres and are diagnosed with one of these 30 diseases. The SMA programme has not yet covered the whole of Poland, but we can see that since the beginning of this year in voivodships, where this program already exists, seven patients have been diagnosed and, which is very important, they already receive treatment in the first month, already have effective treatment. We see the effects of these 3 years of activity and earlier activities, because patients who have been involved in clinical trials, who have received the first doses, the first treatment before the onset of symptoms, develop normally as the rest of the population. Of course, we don't have long-term evidence yet of what this expected time of life is going to look like, but it's looking very good so far. We had patients diagnosed during pregnancy and at the earliest in the first day of the child's life was treated with Nusinersen and it is treatment. Of course, we are now negotiating two more drugs in connection with the programme, but we will see what happens next. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Plocke is ready to ask the question, but we are still waiting for the Minister to answer the questions asked. Maybe someone will come along in the meantime. I made a call to Mr Sloppy, who could possibly reach him. I have the impression that you flashed Minister Chefner so that we could just a little bit earlier... So now we're going to go to question 10. I ask Mr Jarosław Goncier, Law and Justice, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u309	Dear Marshal, Minister! The programme for the development of family help homes is being launched, i.e. improving the availability and development of care services provided in family help homes. Given the demographic processes of ageing, it should be noted that there is a need for family support for people who require a wide range of care services, but at the same time do not yet require social assistance at home. Minister! Therefore, I have questions: Since when will the programme be implemented? To whom is it addressed? What's the purpose of the program? How will it be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u310	Thank you very much. The answer will be given to Minister Stanisław Szwed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this question, because it concerns the important issue of providing care for the elderly, for those who are independent. We are talking about family help homes - institutions that operate in Poland, but are quite poorly known. That is why we are developing this programme so that we can provide more assistance. What is a family home anyway? Maybe I'll start with a few words of explanation. It is a form of care and living services performed 24 hours a day for independent persons. It is a family home, a form that is situated indirectly between care in the place of residence and institutional care provided e.g. at a social worker's home. The family home may accommodate 3 and 8 people. These houses are run by natural persons or NGOs on behalf of the municipality or after signing a contract with the municipality. The basis here is the programme aimed at local governments, i.e. individuals or NGOs can lead such houses through local governments. It can be a house that is owned by a natural person who provides such services, fulfilling certain terms and conditions under the Social Assistance Act, or a house that can be leased or rented from a local government which provides such a form of support here. And that's how it works. At the moment in Poland, there are 47 such houses in all municipalities. It is fair to say that this is not much, although it seems that it is a good form of support for those who need it, or for those who do not yet require specialist support, but need 24/7 support. The family help house has this function. Therefore, after the meetings of the Social Policy Committee and the Sejm and Senate family in our ministry, we have prepared a new version on family help houses, through which we want to significantly facilitate the establishment of family help homes, as well as the provision of services through co-financing. On the one hand, it will be possible to pay the municipalities the costs they incur by directing the person to a family home. In this respect, the amount of such aid will depend on whether it will be created, whether it will be a new home already existing. This surcharge will amount to 30-50% the costs to be incurred. In the case of the second component, we will also transfer funds to equipment, renovate units that will, for example, be. hired by municipalities. This is where the owner of the building we're paying for has to be a local government unit. We want more local governments and therefore more individuals or NGOs to create such houses. I think this is also a good time when on the one hand we can provide what is most important, i.e. help in the place of residence in the form of e.g. personal assistance and, on the other hand, creating indirect support, which are family help homes. In cases where specialized care is needed, we have social services homes. We've developed an informant that we've addressed to all local governments. In this way, we wanted to spread knowledge about the possibility of creating such individuals. Of course, the municipality is the most important in this process, because placing a person in such a family home is an administrative decision that the municipality takes. The same is true for DPSs. The DPS is also headed by the municipality. You have to meet similar conditions. If a person has funds, as in the case of social assistance homes, part of the cost is covered by his own budget and some of it is paid for, for example. family. If the income is too low, then it adds to it the municipality. As for the part that the municipality will provide, we want to allocate adequate resources to finance it. The resources come from the reserve of the state budget, so that if there is interest, we have the means to make use of it. Let's take a look at the map. We have 47 family help homes in 14 voivodships, i.e. there are two other voivodships in which there is no family help home. Importantly, in this new part of the programme we introduced the principle that the municipality in which there is no, for example, a family help home, may commission the task of a neighboring community in which such a home is. The task will be carried out by the neighbouring local government on the basis of an agreement between local authorities. We're open to using this form. I hope that thanks to my words and the broad information we want to carry out in the mass media (the bell), the information about this will reach the interested ones themselves - it is mainly about local governments - so that they can use this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u312	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. In the absence of another Minister, we will then ask Mr John Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for this information. Society is getting older and the ministry is taking action to create various tools to take care of older people who are not able to function themselves is very good. I'd like you to complete what you said. I wanted to ask, " Who can run family homes? ' What can be done by family help homes? I would also like to ask you about the 75-plus care program that goes out to people who don't want to be in the family home or in the DPS. Does this program include this? Are the care services provided under this scheme carried out by the municipalities (Dzwonek) to a wide extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u314	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u315	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'll refer to the first question. Maybe I didn't say that, but it's actually possible for individuals to drive. To this end, a contract should be signed with the local government - a normal agreement with a natural person - as well as a contract with a public benefit organisation or a non-governmental organisation. On the basis of the provisions of the contract, in which conditions and costs are specified, family help homes operate. As far as the second question is concerned, regarding care 75+. I would like to say that this program is functioning, we are developing it. This is a program aimed at people over the age of 75 who need support. We implement it through local governments - we pay to local governments for care services that are provided in the place of residence. This may be an addition to the care provider who comes to the person and provides care for him, it may also be other specialized services that the municipality may order. We have made some fundamental changes in this programme. According to the first project, it was directed to the municipalities to 20,000. Inhabitants, then we increased it to 40,000. Currently, the programme is addressed to municipalities with up to 60,000. residents. In these municipalities, this programme can be implemented. We believe that access to specialized care in smaller towns is more difficult, and therefore we pay the municipalities these services. Another change is that the municipality can commission services to private entities or public benefit organisations. They do not need to be carried out by the employees of the city or municipal social services centre. This can also be done by people who are well-educated and can take care of them. As far as numbers are concerned, over the last 3 years there has been an increase in the number of municipalities that benefit from this programme. In 2021 it is more than 500 municipalities. At the moment we have a demand of PLN 28 million for this programme. When we started, it was an amount of PLN 5 million. It wasn't because there were no resources. We respond to the needs of local governments. If local governments report - this is their optional action - demand, we are able to help them. We encourage small local governments to benefit from this programme, because this is an additional source in terms of the possibility of providing care for older people in their place of residence. It's about the specialized and rehabilitation care that we're paying for right now. And that's the accomplice. So if we add 50% for a given service, the other 50% He's gonna have to add to the government. So that we encourage local authorities to (The bell) use this program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u316	Thank you very much, Minister. It can be said that the colleagues are already in mode, so Mr Plocke will wait a while longer. And now the question will be asked by Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u317	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Recently it has appeared, and I think it is better to say: the problem of extending the borders of the city of Chelm has erupted. At the end of August, a few weeks ago, the president of Chelm asked the Lublin Voivodeship to begin a procedure for extending the city's borders by eight villages currently located within the administrative borders of the rural municipality of Chelm. After 2 weeks - an express pace - the voivode gave an opinion and submitted an application to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. And it is worth noting that President Chelm's actions are probably dictated by the fact that he wants to join the richest areas, with modern infrastructure, with prosperous production facilities, armed areas, new roads. As representatives of the municipality present, changes will lead to a loss of 20% area and up to 50% income to the detriment of the municipality. Minister! I want to tell you that what I said at the outset is, of course, dry facts and events you probably know about, but this fire set by President Chelm, let's face it: a prominent law and justice activist, is developing very quickly and very dynamically. Not only the commune authorities, but above all the residents feel ignored, they feel dealt with. There are protests that are expressed in different forms. The determination is enormous. People are just disappointed. They didn't have any information, there weren't any prior interviews - that's, on the basis of: I want, I get. As in the lens (the bell) there is arrogance, disregard for self-government. Minister! This motion is in your office, or is it even on your desk? So what are you going to do? They listen to us, they listen to you from the community. I ask for a positive answer for these residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u318	Thank you very much, Mr Jan Lopata. And to answer the questions asked - asking for the answer to be positive, Minister - we ask the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear parliamentarians, who are asking these questions! In response to this call, I will say that for three years as co-chair of the Joint Government and Government Committee, I have been working on such proposals in the Ministry and I am trying to ensure that they are all resolved in such a way as to bring about an agreement between the local government units that are interested in these changes. And I would like that to be so in this case. As regards substantive issues, the Lublin Voivode has actually requested the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to launch a procedure for extending Chelm's borders to neighbouring villages located within the Chełm commune. In his speech, the Lublin Voivode states that the administrative division in force is a barrier to the development of the city of Chelm, as there are currently only 40 hectares of land in the city that can be managed. The scope of the proposed amendment therefore covers the area in which potential investment areas may be located. The spatial layout and nature of the buildings planned to be incorporated into the city of Chelm is urban in nature and the inhabitants of these areas are strong relationships with the city in the field of everyday life: education, employment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'll just finish up, sir. The spatial layout and nature of the buildings planned to be incorporated into the city of Chelm is urban in nature, and the inhabitants of these areas live their daily lives in the city of Chelm. In the planned areas for inclusion there is infrastructure associated with the city of Chelm, e.g. There is a municipal waste treatment facility in the Srebrzyszcze village, and the proposed change of borders aims to increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of the city of Chelm. So much for the substantive issues raised by your voivode. Let me add that there have been three such conclusions recently, all of them being processed, so this is not an isolated case. Now I'm going to say two words about what this procedure looks like. The procedure appears to be that after the Lublin Voivodeship's request in the second half of September, we initiated a consultation as an MSWiA on the basis of an article. 4a of the Municipal Government Act, acting ex officio to the persons concerned to present relevant opinions preceded by a public consultation with the residents of these units. Local government units under the Act have at the moment 3 months to express these opinions. And referring to this first sentence, which I said, weighing all the arguments that appear, I would encourage today that representatives of both units of local government, the authorities, the president, on the one hand, on the other hand, sit down and start talking about what will be beneficial for one community and what will be beneficial for the other. And as for this reference to the lack of consultation, they are currently... [[But it's the other way around.]] ...in accordance with this procedure provided by the law, they should be implemented. Without these consultations, it is impossible to complete this process that has been launched. As far as financial issues are concerned, because they are also extremely important, I believe that they are one of the fields for talking between local government units. I think that this issue will also be relevant and this will be subject to a detailed analysis by the Minister responsible for public finances before any such decision is taken by the government. As a result of these actions, namely consultations, decisions of one council, of the other council... I continue to urge this consultation to take place on the basis of some dialogue between municipalities. If not, in such situations very often the person who can conduct such a dialogue is a voivodship or a marshal of the voivodship. I think these are the people on the spot who could... Basically, it is very often worth talking about these issues, always worth talking about. I think that we are at this stage at which these discussions, analyses should be conducted, and, consequently, the Council of Ministers, after balancing all aspects of this case, will ultimately decide on the proposed change of borders between the city of Chelm and the municipality of Chelm. Having the opportunity to answer this question, knowing the emotions raised by these issues not only in this municipality, but also in other places where such a procedure is carried out, I invite you and appeal to try to communicate, because other cases, from earlier years, have shown that despite many tensions at first it was possible to... Not everywhere, of course. For the sake of clarity, we are aware that there are also places where this agreement has not been implemented, but I think there is room for discussion, to be able to talk, so that such actions are taken, which will be beneficial for both units of local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u320	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u321	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Except the president of this town pulled a pin out of that grenade and he's running with it here and there. If he wanted to act like a true self-government officer, the first thing he would do would be to come to his uncle and start a dialogue with him. What he did, on the other hand, doesn't look like it at all. I'll remind you what we're talking about. We're really talking about twice the area of Chełm, because the proposed area is 4250 hectares and 6,000. People. There's a set-up plan. There's plumbing, roads. There are two schools built. Finally, there are industrial plants from which taxes flow to the municipality. It is built, as the Minister said, a waste treatment facility, which brings together 27 municipalities, in the area of the village (Dzwonek) village. There's a landscape park. I don't know why the president needs a landscape park, but it's millions of zlotys and many years invested by this municipality in making this community look exactly what it looks like. And the Chelm? There are neighborhoods that don't have a development plan at all. Unfortunately, today it's like a bank heist. Those people who lived there because they wanted to live in the country wanted to pay less taxes, they wanted to treat themselves that way. Minister, this isn't self-government. We're from one voivodship, we were in a sejm, we know how self-government should act. I think the president just doesn't know what he's doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking Minister Paweł Chefner to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u323	I'd love to answer the question, but the question hasn't been answered. [[It's dead. How self-governments act...]] In response to these arguments that have emerged, I do not want to judge the actions of one or the other self-governments, because we all know that these are very often different actions. My role is to point out a path that will allow us to find some consensus. I am convinced that this agreement I was talking about would have to be based on the fact that both sides would have found a golden measure. Therefore, one and the other party would give way to some arguments that have so far emerged there. We also have such experience that under these agreements the financial losses of local governments are not always compensated in some way. I think it's probably the best time to find an agreement on this right now, and I urge you to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Plocke's patience has been rewarded. We may proceed with the questioning of Minister Bartosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u325	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The word "inflation" is synonymous with the word "expensive." "Drożyzna" is the most frequently repeated word in Polish homes today. The problem is that the growing cost of producing fertilisers, animal feed, water, energy, gas is an even more expensive guarantee in the future. Due to the need to protect the existence of Polish families, we ask the following questions. Does the Ministry monitor the increase in production costs of fertilisers that have recently been used three or four times? What are the causes of this rapid growth? We also draw attention to the fact that we also have an increase in prices of other cost carriers, namely energy, gas, water. Does the Ministry have any expertise on the effects of rising prices of agricultural inputs on future food prices? If so, what institutes have prepared this type of expertise? We'd like to meet them. Next issue: What protective measures is the government planning for farmers and consumers? We would like to ask whether State Treasury companies can be involved in this process, since they participate in other important projects. It seems to us that in this case it would also be a valuable initiative, so that these entities would participate in the process of helping Polish families. How will the price increase of agricultural inputs translate into food prices in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u326	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Minister Richard Bartosik to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, in recent months we have seen an increase in the prices of agricultural inputs, an increase in the prices of mineral fertilisers, some even two - three times. The prices of nitrogen fertilisers and ammonium phosphate increased to the greatest extent. The most expensive nitrogen fertilizer was urea. The evolution of the prices of mineral fertilisers on the domestic market follows the trends observed on the world market, which is not only due to the high level of Polish imports and exports, but also to the dependence of domestic production on imported raw materials. The level of domestic production allows almost full satisfaction of Polish agriculture's needs in the application of nitrogen and phosphorous fertilisers, but the supply of potassium fertilisers to Polish farmers comes mainly from imports. According to the opinion of the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy, the rise in prices of mineral fertilisers in Poland is mainly influenced, as we all know, by the dynamic increase in prices of natural gas, the basic raw material for the production of nitrogen fertilisers and compound fertilisers. The production of nitrogen fertilisers is based on ammonia, which currently produces 97% Fertilizers. On the other hand, 80% and 90% the total cost of production of ammonia from which nitrogen fertilisers are produced is natural gas. For this reason, the change in gas prices is critical for this industrial production of nitrogen fertilisers. According to the World Bank's monthly figures, the index of natural gas prices remains unfortunately in the upward trend. From September 2020 to September 2021 it has increased almost fourfold, and in critical cases and more. The rise in natural gas prices is due to a number of factors, mainly due to increased demand and low stock reserves after the winter season 2020/2021, but also to restrictions on deliveries from Russia to Europe. There has been an increase in the prices of fertilisers in world trade, affecting the rise in prices of mineral fertilisers, the rise in prices in imports. According to World Bank data, monthly prices of mineral fertilisers in world trade from December 2018 to mid-2020 were in decline, but since July ub. This trend has been reversed and turned into an upward trend. The increase in prices, mainly urea and ammonium phosphate, is linked to rising food prices on global markets, resulting in increased global demand for fertilisers. On the other hand, the increase in fertiliser supply in 2020 was limited, which was influenced by lower exports by Chinese producers. Since the beginning of the second half of 2020, however, demand for fertilisers has increased significantly, mainly in India and Brazil. In 2020 the price increases for fertilisers in world trade continued. In September this year. The World Bank's fertiliser price index was set at 129,5 points compared to 76,9 points a year earlier. It therefore increased by 68.5%. The increase in fertiliser prices in world trade has contributed to the increase in transaction prices in the import of mineral fertilisers to Poland. We also see an increase in oil fuel prices, employment costs, industrial sales prices. Of course, we see panic in the fertilizer market and a tendency to manipulate. Intermediaries often try to take advantage of this difficult situation. There has also been an increase in the prices of CO2 emission allowances. The price for the right to release tons of CO2 into the atmosphere has increased more than twice. These are the main reasons for the increase in the price of fertilisers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] hence this situation on our domestic market and supply problems, but also with galloping rising prices of fertilisers, mainly nitrogen fertilisers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u328	Thank you very much, Minister. And the second question is also asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u329	Thank you very much for your explanation, although I am not entirely satisfied with the answer, Minister. I would like to ask you two more questions. Namely, we are informed that nitrogen plants do not implement, or delay, contracts for the supply of mineral fertilisers to farmers. I wanted to get confirmation that this kind of situation was known to the Ministry. If so, will there be any reaction from the Ministry? And then there's the second line. I also wanted to ask if it is true that some representatives of nitrogen plants refuse to talk, meetings with farmers' representatives, agricultural organisations, to discuss the situation on the market of mineral fertilisers in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that this was the case at the Anwil Zakład Azotowy in Włocławek. Minister, will such situations be in the future, will farmers be treated as partners and there will be a normal dialogue between farmers' representatives and economic organisations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u330	Thank you very much. Minister Bartosik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u331	Thank you very much. I don't know anything about fertilizer plants stopping production or sales. According to the knowledge we have, sales and production take place normally. Nevertheless, we monitor this situation, we are in contact with the Ministry of State Assets, which we know are subject to nitrogen fertiliser companies. Perhaps such problems can occur because of companies that mediate in the sale of fertilisers. Therefore, we are sending a request to the UOKiK for a thorough examination of this. On the other hand, when it comes to talking to farmers with representatives of companies, nitrogen fertilizer plants and referring to the situation that the Member was talking about, it seems to me that it was difficult to talk at the time; it would be necessary to ask the company. Me, for example. Today I talked about this difficult situation with the trade union federation and representatives of these unions talked to us about it in the Ministry. This conversation was, of course, difficult, because the situation is difficult, but under the right conditions and in a substantive manner. It's hard to talk when it's blocked to the fertilizer plants. As was the situation on the ground, it would be necessary to ask the company authorities where this was happening, but I think that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of State Assets are more appropriate for discussions with representatives of trade union organisations in this area. We are trying to respond to these demands, to these problems, to monitor the case. Direct financial assistance, as you know, is difficult because European Union legislation does not allow the purchase of agricultural inputs to be supported. I know that fertilizer plants - we are discussing this with the Ministry of State Assets (The Bell) - try to sell them at prices as close to production costs as possible, do not manipulate this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u332	Thank you very much, Minister and Member. We proceed to another round of questions, also addressed to Minister Bartosik. The question will be asked by Maciej Górski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u333	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! In view of the presentation of the Polish Load for the Polish village in Przysudze, I have two questions for the Minister. In numerous speeches, the Ministry sees a decline in farmers' incomes, among others. in the fall, the destruction of the Polish agricultural processing sector from the 1990s. What exactly were the proposals made by the Ministry within the framework of the Polish Order to rebuild this sector, this branch? And what measures do you expect to mobilise for this action? The second question you partially consummated Minister Plocke, while I have a more detailed question. We know that the price of fertilisers is a derivative of the price of gas, and we also know that there is a great policy around Nord Stream 2 and here all of Europe has a similar situation. However, when it drags on, I understand that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Department of Activities, will monitor whether any programmes are possible in the spring or not, or too early to talk about it. If the Minister could remove the secret, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u334	Thank you very much. Minister Bartosik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u335	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As regards the elements of the Polish Load for the Polish village addressed to farmers in connection with the expansion, creation of agri-food processing, such a program was actually announced. Unfortunately, we don't have that processing. This is a problem from the 1990s, when most bets were privatized, but it often involved the liquidation of buying and processing establishments. The share of private companies in food processing has increased to 80%, which in itself is nothing bad, while these companies did not fully fulfil the tasks they had previously been called for. Many companies have been taken over by foreign capital. The country's intervention and investment in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises has played a major and positive role in this situation. According to statistics on the agri-food sector in 2019 in the Polish food industry, 17,6 thousand production activities were carried out. entities. Within the scope of Polish Load projects for the Polish village we provide PLN 4.5 billion for the reconstruction of Polish processing and the sale and production of food on the farm. These funds will come from KPO, which we are all waiting for. This is a very large amount of money and we want this processing in smaller centres, close to the farmer to recreate. This appropriation will be used to support micro, small and medium-sized agri-food processing enterprises, support for farmers selling directly, RHD and MOL activities, strengthening the network of regional wholesale markets... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: ...and storage and distribution centers. Ladies and gentlemen, this important action will be implemented through the National Reconstruction Plan. We want agricultural producer groups, private investors, companies or companies to invest in. As regards the second question on solutions, we, as Poland, reported at the European Union agriculture ministers' meeting in Luxembourg a few days ago a problem concerning the cost of fertilizer production, and we hope that the European Commission will address this issue. On the other hand, on the domestic market we monitor the situation, we talk to the Ministry of State Assets. We hope that gas prices will stabilise in the near future and therefore fertiliser prices will also. There are no comprehensive solutions in our country or in the European Union. The situation is very difficult. Further large purchases of fertilisers will be made before spring sowing and we hope that during this period gas prices and therefore fertiliser prices will stabilise. But the situation is very, very difficult for farmers right now. With reduced demand in the coming months, I hope this price will drop slightly or stabilize. However, these conditions are very large and, above all, the main cost-making condition is the price of natural gas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u336	Thank you very much, Minister. One more question. This time it will be asked by Mrs Teresa Pamuła, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for this program, especially for processing. This PLN 4.5 billion is really an amount that will certainly enable the restoration of what was already very important for Polish agriculture. Does the Minister believe that it will be possible to rebuild this processing so that there are small dairy houses, small massacres, so that it can be processed directly that the farmer can process his products directly at his farm? Will this money be enough for this plan, what is assumed, the return of Polish processing to small cities, to the Polish village? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u338	Thank you very much, Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u339	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amount is large, because 4.5 billion PLN, guaranteed, recorded in the National Plan for Reconstruction. As soon as these measures are activated, we will put the word into practice. It is in small towns that we would like sales centres, agricultural fetuses to be set up, so as to shorten the chain between the farmer and the consumer. I hope that this programme will be very closely linked to agricultural retail trade, which is the first step towards getting to consumers directly. The entire programme is designed to ensure that processing plants are also established in smaller towns and that they can be delivered directly to retailers or directly to customers. As we know, Polish food is very good, very tasty. There is growing demand and interest in healthy food. We are not only talking about organic food, but simply about our Polish production. This food is very good and hoping that it will not be transported far away, that consumers will want to supply products produced in these factories, give farmers and entrepreneurs an opportunity to invest in agri-food processing, because it is the future for the Polish countryside, but also the future for entrepreneurs who will positively influence their income and contribute to the fact that consumers, city dwellers will be able to supply fresh, very good, processed goods directly from the Polish countryside, directly from farms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u340	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to more questions. The first question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last Sunday, in many cities in Poland, we had protests against the policy of the government taking Poland out of the European Union. The biggest demonstration took place in Warsaw. Next to it was the counter-manufacturing of extremes, environments spreading a lot of hatred in Polish public life. What's left of this countermandation is the total indifference of the police in this case. The fact that the police did not respond to the calls of the Warsaw City Hall to remove the illegally placed sound system, the purpose of which was only to disturb almost 100,000. Warsawians and Poles in listening to important words of participants of the Warsaw Uprising. I was there, I saw the police weren't responding. The police behaved like protecting pro-PiS militias that drove the City Guard away from intervention. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] These issues were reported to both police officers on the spot, both the Chief of Police and the Chief of Police, but there was no response. It turned out that Mr. Bąkiewicz, the leader of these pro-PiS militias, is simply supported by the police. I understand you have such an imperative to use all sorts of extreme organizations. You failed to use WOTs to suppress women's protests, but the image of police officers who are chasing away city guards who are about to remove an illegal assembly and an illegal sound system, is the image of police fall. I wanted to ask the Minister what led the Polish Police, and what orders did she receive to defend Mr Bąkiewicz, who interfered with the Polish anthem and completely did not respond to what was happening during the counter-demonstration? Where's the decency and where's the attention to the policeman's uniform? [[Who disturbs the ceremony every month. Your militias.]] Ma'am, please... But you can scream reality... [[Bąkiewicz in a skirt.]] Please allow us to complete the question. But your militia was interfering with singing the hymn, and that's the truth about your patriotism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u342	Thank you very much. You will answer the question asked by Minister Paweł Chezernaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this very political speech by the Member, there is a lot of false information, even if one of these manifestations was illegal. Also not true was the information about 100,000. members, participants in this event. [[How many?]] Also information concerning pro-PiS militias or the fact that someone would protect these militias. Let me get to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. The facts are that because we are acting on the basis of the Assembly Act. From the data contained in the Public Information Bulletin of the Warsaw Town Hall, 25 demonstrations were registered as of October 10th, including eight assemblies registered in the vicinity of the Castle Square. All the conventions registered by the City Hall of Warsaw were legal. The President of Warsaw did not ban any of them. The role of the police in connection with the assemblies is to ensure the safety of participants in legal demonstrations. Ladies and gentlemen, the police are not above judging which assembly is more important and which is less important. The role of the police is to ensure the safety of all legal participants, I repeat, demonstrations. [[Applause]] [[But there was an illegal sound system.]] And now I'd like to ask you to... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Defending the fascists... Congratulations.]] But, sir, if it were an organisation that has no right to operate in our country, it would be illegal. The President of Warsaw would not allow fascists to walk around the city. Then why did he allow it? Why did he legalize it? Don't mislead the public. Continuing, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Assembly Law clearly regulates the measures that cannot be used during these demonstrations, but this does not apply to technical measures. Further, by responding directly to issues related to this particular situation which he has been trying to describe here, using many false adjectives, I would like to say that the central role of the police in securing is to ensure a secure gathering of demonstrators. Even in the event of a threat during the organisation of meetings, the police respond to situations of any kind which pose or may pose a threat to life, health, property of citizens, but also security and public order. In such cases, the police carry out actions appropriate to the situation, taking into account the criterion of purpose and social interest. [[Voice from the room: Write it down.]] It should be stressed that police officers take action only against those who commit an infringement of the applicable legal order, in the first place seeking to separate the participants... [[Stunning the national anthem.]] ...if this is the case, expressing their views peacefully. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And now I'm going to go to the details of this event, because I see that these issues I'm talking about... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You guys are doing it, too.]] ...states aren't interested at all. You have your views on this, so... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr... During the activities carried out in the area of the Old Town, officers received information from the organizer of the assembly in the Castle Square that the public hearing of the assembly taking place on the street. Podwale interferes with the statements of people gathered before the Royal Castle. There is even a fact to which we agree, sir, isn't there? Was there any information? She was. If there was information, the entire procedure under which the police intervened against the organisers of the manifestation began. Officers also contacted the head of the Bureau of Security and Crisis Management of M.S. Warsaw for the purpose of posting a representative of this institution to the place of protests. The representatives of the city office arrived at the convention site to talk to the organizers to convince them to reduce the volume level. Nor have their negotiations been successful in this situation. [[You were negotiating like the Czechs.]] No, it's not us. It's City Hall. Attention, because this is very important. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If you can listen to me, sir, I really do. City Hall officials found that they had no legal basis for the assembly held on the street. I'm gonna rock it. According to the information provided by the police chief, a representative of the city office orally reported to the police section commander that the construction was established in the road lane with speakers without the consent of the road manager - here is the situation of the notification - and for this reason the police are conducting investigations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question of the Code of Offences, it is not a question of crime, it is a question of the Code of Offences, of the Code of Conduct in Offences in order to determine whether there were grounds for bringing an application for criminal punishment to court. [[Would you protect Grandma Kasia too?]] It should also be noted that police officers have prepared appropriate documentation. Ladies and gentlemen! Both conventions were legal. [[But not in this place.]] Within the framework of the provision of the Article. 57 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland had legal protection arising precisely from the legality of this event. According to the estimates of the police at the assembly in the area of the street. A few hundred people took part in the subroutine... [[Do you know how much? 40, to be exact.]] ...there were over 25,000 in Castle Square. persons. Let me add, ladies and gentlemen... [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the marshal would let me finish. Why don't you allow Members to finish their statement to the Minister? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: I've been interrupted many times, so I'm just going to try to make one more point. Today, from the news that appeared in the press, I learned that the president of the capital city had filed a report to the prosecutor's office on the possibility of committing a crime. The explanatory memorandum states that there is no response to the threat posed by the maintenance structure of the sound system and deliberate and conscious interference with the legal assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was knowledge of any threat to the construction, then the President's role was to terminate this assembly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u344	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u345	Minister! Your problem is you weren't there, and I was there. Even before the beginning of the convention in Castle Square it turned out that at ul. There has been an illegal, provisional and dangerous construction by the organization of nationalists subsidised with millions of public money by the government. Illegal - because it was created without the permission of the landlord required by law - because the construction was built on high frames, to which speakers were attached towards the Castle Square for jamming, and the whole construction was attached to the wobbly urban road posts, dangerous - because it threatened the life and health of passersby, as well as property, because there were parked vehicles. The city guard wanted to intervene, the land manager intervened - unsuccessfully. There was nothing to talk about on-site, nothing to do with a written notification that was received by the Police Department. Minister! Why was the police protecting this illegal installation that jammed the Polish anthem that was jamming the heroes who participated in the Warsaw Uprising? Who decided that this would happen so that the nationals would drown out the pro-EU demonstration? You, Minister Chezernaker? [[City Hall approved it.]] Security Prime Minister Kaczyński or Chief of Police Szymczyk? 'Cause despite reports of law violations, there was no police response. The police protected the nationalists more and more unpunished, growing in strength by flirting with the PiS. That's what happened, Minister. 'Cause I was there, right there. [[Applause]] [[Trzaskowski decided.]] [[The voice from the hall:...your militia, but a little decency, a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u346	Thank you very much. I'm asking Minister Bossner for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u347	Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! I gave you all the facts that came out that day... [[No, Minister, not facts.]] ...in spite of the way the state has been attacking my humble person from the very beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on an illegal matter, as you say, with a loudspeaker, I don't settle, that's what you said, that's not my problem. But I wasn't really there. [[I do.]] According to the information, I repeat, transmitted by the Chief of Police after oral notification to the commander of the police action section of information about the setting in the road lane of the structure with speakers without the consent of the road manager... In this respect, investigations are carried out on the basis of the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. Let me repeat, ladies and gentlemen, if this posed any threat to the people who were there, then the role of the one who gave his consent for this to take place there was simply a solution to this manifestation. [[It wasn't here.]] [[This installation was in a completely different place than the consent was given.]] The organisers of this manifestation should be informed of the termination if they have acted unlawfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u348	Thank you very much, Minister. The last question in a series of questions is asked by Members. Mr Andrzej Noblechta was the first, right? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Since 2005, Members of Law and Justice from Podkarpacie have sought to modernise the connection with Rzeszów, the capital of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, to Warsaw by Ocice, line 71. To date, Rzeszow's rapid connection to Warsaw takes place on the Pendolino train through Kraków, which is an extended route. We are pleased that, finally, after 50 years of electrification of the railway line in the section of Rzeszów - Ocice was carried out in the rule of law and justice. 70 km of the new overhead contact line was installed for over PLN 67 million. This electrification is intended to provide a more convenient and quicker connection between Rzeszow and Warsaw by Sandomierz, Skarżysko-Kamienna and Radom, as well as alternative Tarnobrzeg, Stalowa Wola and Lublin. Dear Minister, What financial expenditure has so far been incurred for this important railway task, and what was the substantive scope of this task, which will connect Rzeszów and Warsaw with a shorter route? It is expected that the journey time will be reduced to 3 hours. Thank you very much. [[It was a thank you, not a question)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u350	Thank you very much. I now ask you to respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles expect safe, comfortable, comfortable, but also punctual and ecological transport. The Law and Justice Government wants and ensures such rail transport. Right now, with a national program... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Warsaw - Poznań line.]] Excuse me, can I... After all, the Minister answers the questions asked, not the questions raised by Members. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Within the framework of the National Railway Programme, which amounts to 76 billion PLN, we will realize by 2023 more than 230 investments consisting mainly in the modernisation of railway lines, but also in construction, reconstruction or adaptation to modern conditions also railway platforms. This will make the rail trip the way I said it in the first sentences. All regions are covered by these rail investments. Mr Andrzej Szlachta is asking about Podkarpat, about railway line number 71. Yes, indeed, the modernization of this line is coming to an end, and this year it will allow electric trains to operate precisely because of electrification. Thanks to the completion of these works, permanent service of long-distance connections from Rzeszow through Kolbuszowa, Nowa Dęba, Tarnobrzeg and later towards our capital, of course two routes, one of them runs through Sandomierz, Skarżysko-Kamienna, Radom just to Warsaw, and the other through Tarnobrzeg, Stalowa Wola, Lublin and later by railway line No. 7 through Puławy, Nałęczów and Pilawa to the capital of our country. After the completion of all these investments, to reach Warsaw, we must use not only seventy-one, but as I said, twenty-five, eight, sixty-eight and seven, the time will be reduced in a very clear way. When it comes to passing through Radom, Starachowice, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, Sandomierz and Tarnobrzeg, the journey from Rzeszów to Warsaw will take about 4 hours. As for the second variant, the variant by Puławy, Nałęczów, Lublin, Kraśnik and Tarnobrzeg and Kolbuszowa will travel less than 5 hours in the nearest timetable. After complete investments on the railway lines I mentioned, the travel time of the fastest train between Rzeszow and Warsaw will be reduced to 3.5 hours. We build an accessible railroad, one that is safe, comfortable, comfortable, punctual. I will honestly admit that - this is a personal digression from today - I was taking my dad on a train from Warsaw-Śródmieście to Lublin. The train arrived from Łódź 3 min. ahead of time and left on time despite the fact that investments are being carried out on these rail routes, often under traffic, which is often associated with travelling. We try to do everything to ensure that the Polish railroad meets the requirements of Polish society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u352	Thank you very much. The second question will also be asked by Mr Nobleman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u353	It's been very short. Dear Minister, In parallel, there is a modernization of railway line No 25 on the section Ocice - Skarżysko-Kamienna. What is the state of modernization of this line? Is it possible to travel to Warsaw already in 2023, i.e. after the complete modernisation of the line, which will ensure the maximum shortening of the time of connection between the capital of Podkarpacie and the capital of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u354	Thank you very much. Minister Weber, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u355	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Rzeszów-Warsaw relationship by Radom is concerned, works are currently being carried out on railway line No 8, section Warszawa-Okęcie - Radom. It is possible to increase the planned speed between 60 and 80 km/h to 160 km/h from 2023. On the other hand, with regard to the work on the railway line, which Mr Andrzej Szlachta asked about, i.e. on line 25 on the section Skarżysko-Kamienna - Sandomierz, there we plan to increase the speed from 60 and 100 km/h to 80 and 120 km/h in 2024. The next railway lines, which are used for communication of Rzeszow and the capital of our country, i.e. 25, 74 and 78, sections Stalowa Wola - Tarnobrzeg - Sandomierz - Ocice - Padew. Here the increase in speed is planned from 100 km/h to 120 km/h and this investment will be completed in the middle of this decade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u356	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Before we move on to the next one, I'm announcing a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 25 hours 20 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the threat of Poland's position in the European Union and the impact of government policy in relations with the institutions of the European Union on all areas of socio-economic life, from climate, through education, local government, to agriculture, investment, development and security of Poland, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens, will be discussed at this meeting. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Darius Rosati's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u357	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The state of Poland's relations with the European Union raises growing concerns among the citizens of the Polish state. There are a number of reasons why this concern is justified. Firstly, for 5 years we have been dealing with a growing number of conflicts and open fronts, disputes on the Warsaw - Brussels line, partly related to the implementation of the so-called. judicial reform in our country, but also concerning other matters, such as illegal logging of trees in Białowieża. But it is mainly matters related to judicial reform that are causing several dozen proceedings to take place against Poland at the moment when it comes to infringement procedures. In addition to about 80 anti-exemption proceedings initiated by the European Commission under Article. There are also dozens of proceedings pending before the European Court of Justice in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They relate to much more serious matters, such as infringement of the article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union in the part in which it concerns the need to comply with the rule of law, Article. 3 (1) (a) 3, which concerns the obligation of loyal cooperation, Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3, which concerns the prohibition of discrimination, Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 which concerns the obligation on Member States to ensure effective judicial protection for Union citizens. We have a situation in which so-called. The reforms implemented by Mr Ziobra and the Government of Law and Justice are widely criticised and challenged, not only by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, but also by independent institutions, by the Council of United Nations International Law, by the Venice Commission and by the most important legal science centres in our country. These conflicts and fronts have led to the fact that at the moment Poland has an opinion in the European Union, which does not respect the rule of law, which undermines the fundamental values of the European Union, which conducts a selfish and nationalist and xenophobic policy. I do not need to convince anyone that this kind of reputation, this kind of opinion cannot help us in the effective pursuit of Polish interests. These numerous fronts and these serial failures before the European Court of Justice, which is borne by the government, show not only that we have some terrible lawyers. They are going to Luxembourg and all their applications are rejected or unable, as in the case of Turów, to justify the opinion, otherwise justified, that the closure of the mine may pose a threat to energy security in Poland. The lawyers sent by the government to the hearing were unable to convince the European Court of Justice. One might ask why this is happening. Were they so poorly prepared, or were there no arguments? But that's not the only reason. The second reason that Poland's relations with the European Union are indeed in a terrible state is clearly and ostensibly anti-European action by the government and law and justice as a governing party. I am talking about building exotic alliances with Prime Minister Orbán, but not only with the heads of nationalist parties from other countries, Mr Salvini, Mrs Le Pen, Mr Abascal and others. These are parties which openly undermine the meaning of the European Union, but also, as we all know, work closely with the Russian Federation and President Putin. [[I think the closest Germans are working together.]] It is difficult for such cooperation and agreement which Law and Justice have signed with such a company to be welcomed with joy (The Bell) in European capitals. Therefore, we have a question for government representatives. How can we ensure the implementation of Polish interests in a situation where we are dealing with this type of action, and there are anti-European and anti-EU propaganda slogans that pour daily from public media and even from this tribune? [[What's that?]] We have been dealing here today with a very confrontational speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who... [[The voice from the hall: It was wonderful today.]] ...in fact, at the beginning, he assured me that polyxit is fake news, but then he devoted a half-hour speech to spit and attack the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, we don't say anything, not even that time is up.]] So I want to ask you, when are you finally cheating us? Are you kidding us when the Prime Minister says that polexit is fake news, or are you kidding us when you attack the European Union all the time and you just want to lead to a situation where Poland will be left alone? Because that's the result of your policy. This is no joke, ladies and gentlemen. Under your rule, Poland is unable to handle any important matter in the European Union. We're losing money, friends and influence. [[You've lost your influence, it's true.]] We have lost very important issues related to access to the services market... Mr President, we are moving to conclusions. ...a mobility package, a climate package. It's just a series of disasters that mark your governments. And the question is, what can you do, Minister Szymański... [[Will they all have that long?]] ...to lead to a situation in which Poland in the European Union will be able to do important business and not just be a boy to beat? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The title of this request for information was very much about education, socio-economic development and climate. We didn't hear much during that speech. The image outlined in this presentation by the applicant has nothing to do with reality. There is no growing number of cases, no dispute with the European Union. Your speech was exactly an illustration of this. In this speech one dispute was outlined and I agree, such a dispute exists - a dispute about the limit of the European Union's interference with the question of justice in Poland. [[Applause]] This dispute has been going on for 5 years not because we are going to resolve in the EU those matters which should be decided in this House, matters which concern the Polish state's system, cases which concern the justice system, which are not covered by the communion under the Treaties. We are leading this dispute to ensure that this House and only this House decide about the Polish future in this matter. [[Applause]] [[She decided eight times, and it didn't work every time.]] There is no reason for minority states to be balanced by foreign influence on this issue. There is no reason for the Treaty to read forcefully in such a way as to restrict the rights of the Polish Parliament in this matter. [[Applause]] I think that everyone in this House, every elected representative of Poles, should keep in mind that the powers of this House, the prerogatives of this House, also the prerogatives of the President of the Republic of Poland should not be limited for any reason. No matter what you think about the matter of justice, the matter of justice reform, it is no excuse to move these issues silently, passively, and sometimes from a sense of political interest to bodies that are not authorized to do so. [[Applause]] [[But this House is limited by its constitution.]] Through the Treaties, we agreed that the rule of law is a principle common to all Member States, including Poland. This is a principle that is important because of the Polish constitution, so this dispute is not about the rule of law. This dispute is about how to apply the rule of law in a particular case. And in these specific cases, we note that the Polish Parliament and its competences should simply be protected. Contrary to the title of this proposal, I have not heard much about other policy areas here. On the other hand, I have heard a very generalized thesis that Poland acts alone and is unable to defend its interests. I will therefore refer to those most important issues that cannot be reduced to a pressing, important dispute over the rule of law. For many opposition politicians, the policy of the European Union towards Poland is limited to the rule of law. There is nothing worse, there is no worse service for the European Union than bringing EU relations to this toxic dispute. [[Applause]] You are doing a favour, not yourself, but the process of European integration, by reducing Poland's multifaceted relations with the common market, with the European Commission and even with Parliament to one, only issue - to the rule of law, which should take place in this Chamber and in any other room. [[You confuse the rule of law with impunity.]] Twice a year I have the pleasure and the honour to inform the High House about Polish policy in the European Union - with much less interest also from applicants, I regret it. This information is accompanied each time by a written structured report on Polish policy for every 6 months in the European Union. You can check what the real Polish government in the European Union is doing. I'll remind you... [[About the rule of law 1.5 pages.]] That is exactly the proportion of what we really need to do in this room as well. I will remind you that contrary to the Members of the opposition, the government does not lose sight of important Polish interests, which can never be reduced only to this one and only toxic case. [[Applause]] These are matters and our regulatory, economic, international interests, which I will now talk about here. Firstly, we have changed the approach of the European Union as a whole to migration. We have rejected relocations that have been supported by you - an extremely toxic idea that has conflicted Member States for many years. We have concentrated the European Union and mobilised it to take care of what is really important to protect the Union's external border, including our external border. Today's events, recent events in a very bitter way admit to us that here is the key to answering the question about European migration policy. The European Council conclusions of June 2018 were groundbreaking when Prime Minister Morawiecki negotiated provisions that, I hope, once and for all, end a toxic discussion on refugee relocation. Of course, we did not act alone in this matter. Thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Poland worked in a broad coalition of countries, not only the Visegrad Group, but also the Baltic countries, Slovenia. Most importantly, it worked effectively. It acted in such a way as to change the policy of the Union as a whole in this very urgent matter. It's rare that negotiation success can be calculated accurately, but it can be quantified. This is the case for the budget of the European Union and the Fund for Reconstruction. Poland is the only major country which is the beneficiary of the multi-annual financial framework and the Fund for Reconstruction, a total of over PLN 750 billion, not at risk of PLN 750 billion. [[Where's the money?]] It wouldn't be possible if... Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of parliamentarians is debate. If the Minister speaks, let him speak and I assure you that you will also be able to address the Minister's statements. [[Applause]] Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: This unprecedented success... [[And we can also comment moderately.]] ...in the framework of more than two years of budget negotiations, it would not have been possible if the coalition of cohesion friends had not been revived - 17 countries, as well as action in a very broad coalition of countries for agricultural policy, a policy very often criticised in the European Union. Most surprisingly, Poland has spoken with a common voice not only with the European Commission but also with the European Parliament. Not in all matters, as you know, because there are matters that divide us, and that sounded today, sounds like the next week, but there were also cases in which we performed together with these institutions. Poland is one of the most active countries in favour of the common market. Trade integration is the source of the main benefits of Poland's membership in the European Union significantly exceeding the costs, even after deduction of capital transfers, which have recently been relatively loud - it is PLN 2 trillion since the beginning of the membership, PLN 2 000. billion PLN benefits from commercial integration. Therefore, Poland is focused on this aspect of integration and is also active in this area in a very broad agreement of countries. A group of friends of the common market are 16 countries. Poland is centrally involved in these matters and, most interestingly, very often cooperates with countries which in many other cases belong to the opponents of Poland, such as Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands, with which we have argued very intensively on budgetary issues or on the rule of law issues. Another issue is industrial policy. In particular, in the era of post-COVID reconstruction, this is a very important topic. Poland was among the first nine countries to highlight the need to correct the European Union's industrial policy in order to reduce our dependence, in particular in the digital economy and medicine. We are active participants in the debate on strategic autonomy. We are finally thanks to an active policy, in particular the Ministry of Climate and Environment, a country that has already gained much in the debate on climate policy. This is certainly the most difficult problem that not only today, but over the last 15 years it has connected Poland with Brussels, because our starting point is different, the state should know that very well. One thing is certain: Poland introduced the concept of energy and climate transformation justice into the international debate and the European debate. It has enormous consequences. Already today Poland is the main beneficiary of the planned Fair Transformation Fund, already today Poland offers the largest transfers of money in the field of the Social and Climate Fund. It doesn't happen in a vacuum. This is done thanks to the intensive efforts of linear resorts here represented, Polish diplomacy, finally the Prime Minister. [[Maybe Prime Minister Buzek.]] These demands are met to a very large extent, but not enough, and I stress this very strongly, especially in climate policy, by far not enough. These postulates are heard, they are listened to, they are taken into account for a reason. With regard to the forestry strategy, which we should also talk more about in the Sejm, we are not alone, we are among the 12 countries with which we coordinate our position in the European Union. Thanks to Poland, the European Council (The Bell) rejected the German-French idea to return to meetings at the highest political level with the Russian Federation. I'm sure you remember that. It was a loud moment in the history of the European Council. [[Applause]] This isn't happening alone. This is done by an intensively motivated Polish position presented on all Council formats, also in the European Council by Prime Minister Morawiecki. On this occasion, it coincided with what we saw after the elections in Belarus. Not only did Poland adopt the fourth tranche of sanctions against Belarus, but on the personal initiative of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the European Council, followed by the European Commission, adopted an economic plan, a plan for democratic Belarus. We are all waiting - I hope - for the day when Belarus will simply be a free country and will be able to freely benefit from the possibility of market cooperation, including budgetary cooperation with the European Union within the Eastern Partnership and beyond. Finally, we have strengthened European law in relation to Russian gas. The promised reform of the Gas Directive presented by the previous President of the European Commission at the direct request of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, on the Polish direct initiative already today gives us much better instruments to impose European market security on the pipeline Nord Stream, also Nord Stream 2, which did not take place before the adoption of the revision of the Directive. Due to winning a very complicated and very groundbreaking case before the Court of Justice of the European Union, a few bitter words were spoken here. I think that's also worth considering in this balance sheet. As a result of the Polish case against the European Commission at a certain stage, against Germany at a certain stage, the European regulatory model for the OPAL pipeline managed to be imposed. It's a gas pipeline. Outflow for Nord Stream 1. [[Court.]] This is a groundbreaking sentence which would not have occurred without Polish determination in this case and without Polish professionalism before the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]] In this judgment, we will build the concept of energy solidarity not only as a political slogan, but as a legal requirement in particular for those foreign partners who wish to benefit from the legal vacuum prevailing before the adoption of the Gas Directive. The dispute over the rule of law, which draws your attention so much and which causes you to lose sight of all these elements, of which I was only able to say in password, is, of course, a difficult experience for our country. Everyone probably reads them a little differently, but it's an undisputedly hard experience for our country. He better not be here. This dispute continues for two reasons. The first is the instrumentalisation of EU issues by some political forces in the country, and the second is the tendency of some politicians - I stress, some politicians, is a moderate court - Brussels to apply double standards to Central European countries in particular. It's in our mutual interest that these two problems disappear from our table. I am embarrassed by the fact that for 5 years the Polish opposition is trying to warm up in a dispute that costs Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u360	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that 40 people have asked questions. If any of you would like any more, you're welcome. At the same time, I inform you that in order to give everyone the opportunity to ask a question, with the permission of the High House, I limit the time to ask a question to 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Then there's a chance that everyone... If he doesn't have permission, we'll stick to the rules for 90 minutes and then... [[Voice from the room: One and a half, one and a half.]] [[But we have 60 minutes, and then it leaves in a minute and a half.]] One-and-a-half minutes and we're on. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. [[Bravo!]] Ms Anita Czerwińska will ask you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is as the Minister said just now. You want to warm up in this dispute according to this iron rule, that the worse it is for Poland, the better. That's what you think. Poland, as the Minister mentioned just now, has alliances on many important issues and has been successful in the European Union. I'll refer to one of them. I'm talking about the sentence. The Court of Justice of the European Union, which concerned the OPAL pipeline. This judgment ended a long-standing dispute over the rules on the use of this pipeline, which constitutes a land-based extension. Nord Stream 2. It was a huge success of Poland, which has always stressed the need to achieve the objectives of the Union's energy policy and the functioning of the internal market in a spirit of solidarity between Member States and loyal cooperation between the Union and the Member States. It must be emphasized that this loyalty must be mutual, mutual. This judgment also stressed the importance of energy security not only at Union level but also at individual Member States. Just as we were right about migration policy, we are being granted it today by the leading (the bell) politicians of the European Union, also in these matters you will soon find out and you will be right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u362	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This common market and its benefits best tell Mr Jakie and his colleagues from Solidarna Polska. [[Applause]] There will be less shame in the world because of their ignorance. Prime Minister Morawiecki has repeatedly proven that he does not understand foreign policy, diplomacy or the European Union. Unfortunately, today in his grotesque and very unpleasant speech he proved that he does not understand Poland. He doesn't understand the people of his homeland. He doesn't understand why people... [[Yeah, he gets it.]] ...on Sunday evening they went out to Castle Square and to markets and streets of over 100 cities all over Poland. I'll tell you why they left. They went out to defend the Polish constitution. [[Applause]] Because these people on the streets know that this is the highest law in Poland. They also know that this law is not incompatible with the treaties. Because the values, Minister, which are the basis of the law, we have the same values in this European Community as the Polish people and other peoples of the Community. [[Really?]] You're the only ones who don't know about this. [[Voice from the room: Equality, equality.]] Or maybe you even know, only this facade tribunal of Julia Przyłębska gave such a judgment. Why? [[Don't insult me.]] To defend the party courts, because the party courts of PiS are needed to ensure impunity for your activists, [[Applause]] Ministers and your prime ministers. However, the scandal (The Bell) is that you want to lose over PLN 250 billion for party courts and your impunity, which is precisely for the climate, for education and for the economy. Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish employees, local governments, teachers, doctors, students are waiting for this money, and you do not want to give this money to Poles because you want to hide your thieving. [[Thieves are you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u364	The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. You're welcome, sir. [[Give me the money for the ventilators, for the masks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u365	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! The current government supported by the party collective... [[If you're missing, go to Nowak.]] Excuse me, sir. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The present government supported by the party collective from Nowogrodzka led to an open war, so far only political, with our neighbours, with the whole Union, with the United States. In the last few days, they've even taken to Great Britain. PiS politicians commit treason, claiming that they are ready to pursue conflict policy even at the cost of EU funds. On economic grounds, as I'm sure Prime Minister Morawiecki should know, this is called an activity to the detriment of the managed entity and is a criminal act. Today, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that polexit is fake news, announcing that Poland does not comply with the judgments of the TSUE not only in cases which, according to PiS, do not fall under the jurisdiction of the European Union, but also in the Turov case, which, in my opinion, is subject to this jurisdiction as much as possible. Prime Minister! If you thought today you didn't convince the Poles from this place, then I say you convinced the Poles. We're on our way to polexit. Prime Minister Morawiecki! Thank you for speaking today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u366	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u367	What are you doing? Once again, you are not acting like representatives of Poland before the European Union, you are acting like delegates of the Blue Comintern on the territory of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Take it easy, man.]] What are you doing? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, [[Game in the O.R.]] How can he... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You'll have time, you'll say. Mr Nitras, these phrases are really out of place. [[What's he talking to me about?]] [[Voice from the room: How is he? How did you even...]] [[Voice from the room: And I didn't have time to say anything to you.]] [[Voice from the room: A woman's boxer.]] The negotiating power of the State may come from a number of factors if it tries to negotiate within the European Union, within an organisation. It may be money - these are the ones we don't have, it may be some kind of military power, economic power - it may not be too much, it may be some good institutional empowerment - with this also weakly, but it may ultimately be the possibility of leaving the society that the institutions issue harmful judgments, acting in a way that is detrimental to the country. Conducting a non-alternative narrative that we cannot manage outside the Union weakens this negotiating position. You are acting to the detriment of Poland. A country where only the rumor of leaving the European Union brings people out on the streets cannot have any negotiating position because people see how hysterical you are reacting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People on the other side, Brussels bureaucrats managing the European Union can see what hysteria you're going to spread around just rumors, let alone when we really have to hit the table and say hello, maybe we need to think about further membership. That's an argument you always have to have in stock. But what are you doing? Don't you know what the European Treaties say about ever-increasing integration? Don't you know that the European Union has already decided that it will be one superstate with one government, one currency in the future? You're trying not to take it into account, live on a financial drip from Brussels, and at the same time... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...you have such a belief that it will somehow be and that in the future... [[What does the Confederation want?]] ...there will be no consequences. It's not gonna be like this. You just put a noose around your neck in the form of debt funds... [[Mr. Marshal, one minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u368	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. [[Voice from the hall: What do you want?]] [[Get out of the European Union.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u369	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today is a special moment. Today Prime Minister Morawiecki claims that he has done nothing about weakening Poland's position in the European Union. When I heard those words, I thought that it was a unique kind of courage when you ignore reality, facts and try to give things a completely different meaning. After all, it was at your request, Prime Minister, that the tribunal ruled on the treaties. It was you who signed the proposal, which de facto undermines Poland's membership in the Union, and that was also the purpose of the proposal. We are talking about the courthouse where two former members of the PiS sit, former candidate for president of the city of Szczecin from the PiS, three judges of the doubles, not to mention the president. It is not enough that the same tribunal ruled more than this conclusion, it itself added two political points, from which it follows that Poland cannot function as an independent and sovereign state in the legal environment created by the TSUE, which is clearly a violation of the so-called. the loyal principle, the principle of loyal cooperation resulting from the article. 19th Treaty of Lisbon. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an obvious step outside the European Union. I don't understand how you don't understand how you laugh at it. After all, this is a very serious matter and this is exactly how they talk about it throughout the Union. This is the result, Prime Minister, of yours: I have done nothing about leaving the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice! This is yours: nothing is hitting the Polish state right. Moreover, every day (the bell) government propaganda tubes conduct an action of disgusting the Community, sipping people more or less ridiculous fake news. Thank you very much. That's exactly what Brexit propaganda did. Ladies and gentlemen! What the tribunal, the PiS, the government, is doing is attempting to assassinate the result of the 2003 referendum. You have no right. The nation said: we want to be a Union, we are a Union. And it would be good if you finally understood that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u370	The question will be asked by Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u371	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, We're having a hard time. This is a difficult time all over the world. A pandemic that's getting worse again when it comes to the number of diseases. And we're waiting for the National Reconstruction Plan because the honorable opposition has decided to set up a barricade. [[Tusk's wine again.]] Because of your speeches... Today is an important debate, but what this debate is about is what you have shown. [[Yeah, I'm afraid so.]] For six years you've been trying to destroy institutions, trying to destroy Poland. [[Oh, Jesus, what nonsense are you talking about?]] Foreign and street - that's your goal. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Opposite! Six years - soon it will be an anniversary - since the Poles removed you from power. Please think about it, because it's not going anywhere. I know you're trying to regain power, how often it's written on the forums: go back to the trough, but... [[Oh, you're the masters of the trough, that ooh...]] Mr. Speaker! We're not the presidents who took 650,000 after 2 months of work. zł. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But back to today's debate... [[Mrs. Sadurska, 6,000. A day...]] Mr... [[You have no shame.]] I have an appeal to you: don't destroy it, and to the Minister: let's get back to normal debate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would ask that the Minister, in his speech later, also draw attention and refer to the Polish Government's strategy for a fully functioning and resilient Schengen area, because this, in addition to the pandemic, is also a threat that we must face. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u372	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u373	Minister! I'm glad you used it to... [[They've even made a resolution.]] But will you allow your colleague to ask a question? I am glad that you have used the question of the rule of law to determine a toxic dispute, because this is indeed a toxic dispute that poisoned Poland. He has not poisoned the Union, the Union is too strong for this, while he has poisoned Poland. [[Exactly. He poisoned Poland.]] You said double standards. These double standards are in Poland: courts, prosecutors - for you. You guys are unpunished, and the rest, depending on how you like it. Here are the double standards. [[Applause]] You're trying, just like the Russians... You are a man who has gained experience in the international arena. They always say, don't teach us democracy, because we have democracy, we have a slightly different democracy. You're not gonna judge her. You're acting exactly like those Russian elites. [[Applause]] The problem is, we're not different. Poles are exactly the same as Germans, French, Spanish. We have one standard. There is one standard in the European Union for independent courts, as there is one gravity. There is no Polish gravity and no European gravity. [[We are different because we speak Polish.]] There's one gravity. She's in effect. And you can't change that. Today, your boss spoke here about the sick ideas of leftist ideologists who created the concept of the European Union. How can a man who is a Polish prime minister talk about a concept, about an institution that gave security to Europe, [[Applause]] which gave no war, wealth - we are the richest part of the world - and to which Poland entered, that these are some sick ideas of leftist ideologies? So what are your ideologies? What are your concepts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is your so-called concept. independent courts of PiS-owskie, like not a sick ideological concept that doesn't work for this yet? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What piss court?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u374	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u375	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! [[The lady in the mask gains a lot of charm.]] Mr, wait a minute, you'll wait. I had high hopes, much I expected from the Polish Commissioner for Agricultural Policy Mr Wojciechowski. I thought that once we had such a commissioner, he would take care of the Polish interest, the financial resources we would have in the new perspective. And what did it turn out to be, ladies and gentlemen? That, unfortunately, when it comes to our negotiators, it did not work, and in order for it to be even more interesting, ladies and gentlemen, money was shifted from the second pillar to the first to save direct payments, so as to only maintain an average level of payments. But that's not gonna happen again, because 25% He'll go to the green order you agreed to. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what you are talking about, you will not be able to implement, the double payments you spoke of in the election campaign. It was unfortunately fake news. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because you are never able to do that. However, the worst thing is: we have negotiated for this previous perspective, which is still being implemented, the resources for the common agricultural policy. And you know how much we spent, spent, paid out at the end of September? 65%. And do you know where we are in Europe? Twenty-seven. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: You cannot spend money, let alone - let's not even talk about it - effectively get it for our farmers (the bell) so that there are as many of them as possible... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u376	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My colleague Sosnierz asked me if Mr Szczecin read Spinelli, the communist who even has his room in the European Union as one of the patrons of what she looks like today. I said he doesn't read anything, he doesn't seem to be reading anything, so I doubt he knows Spinelli. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is serious... I know you didn't understand. I'm not surprised at all. [[No one understood you.]] Once again, I ask that the person who asks the question may ask this question without discussion, because why prolong it. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is serious and the European Union has been evolving in exactly the same direction since the beginning of the 1990s since its inception in 1993. This was known in 2003, in 2007, 2008, when you signed, you agreed to the Treaty of Lisbon. This was known last year when you were capitulating on energy, on the rule of law, and it is known this year when you capitulate on local government resolutions, on the traditional family. Yeah, that's all there is to it. And we know where this is going, Minister. You know that, too. You haven't offered an alternative in six years. You didn't present anything against this Brussels waltz, and what's more, this drip, these small pennies - as President Glapiński claims... And as he rightly claims, this EU money, which represents less than 1% Polish GDP, this EU money today will not create a flywheel that no longer exists in the Polish economy. If only to simplify, lower taxes, if only to promote entrepreneurship... You, for this drip, for these pennies, sell Polish sovereignty in the European Union for these silverwares. And now you have to swallow it. And do you know what I believe is caused by this charge with the Constitutional Tribunal? We're done here, sir. I'm almost done. It's because you're preparing another surrender. You're making further concessions, and now you're making a sovereign fuss so you can back out in a minute and recapitulate and do exactly what the Civic Platform would do if it were you. Because that's exactly what you've been doing all these years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u378	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As we joined the European Union, we decided to be part of the community, and being part of the community means that we have something in common, something that we have in common: a common trade market, a common labour market, a common budget, common values, common rules of play, common law. It is a condition for a united Europe to comply with common values and common law. [[Constitution...]] If each country interprets the laws in its own way, it is as if every driver on the road wants to interpret the traffic regulations in his own way. Jarosław Kaczyński, who, as we know, does not have a driver's license... [[Oh, you have a complex.]] ...wants to regulate the rules of travel on common European roads in its own way today. He wants to be a driver who's happy with himself, drives the freeway against the current. That, Minister, is exactly what you're doing. [[And Simon the Hollowhouse is crying.]] How's this gonna end? First there will be a collision, then there will be a huge financial penalty, and finally there will be a ban on moving on common European roads. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no other way - we have to stop this pirate. We need to stop the car, take his keys, and keep him from ever getting behind the wheel again, along with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u380	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u381	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I regret the impression that Poland has become the subject of massive attacks by the EU institutions. It seems that one of the reasons was the very thought of our government about the superiority of the Polish Constitution over EU law, which, as we know, has already been explained by the Constitutional Tribunal. Furthermore, it is difficult to resist the impression that the conditional payment mechanism of European funds from compliance with the rule of law is an attempt at pressure, blackmail and interference, among others. In our justice system. A rule of law that rightly makes payment conditional on respect for the law, the financial interests of the Union, without suspicion of embezzlement or corruption... But extending this catalog to political arguments seems absolutely unfounded. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister whether such an extra-contractual dependence on the payments of the funds negotiated and fully due is not an economic pressure and an attempt to take away the sovereignty of the Member States of the Union, as well as the violation of the rule of law by the EU institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u382	Thank you very much, sir. Now I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Nowak for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki was a proof of weakness. It was proof of the shouting of something that is unfortunately visible in the European Union... [[You want to scream.]] The helplessness of the PiS in the negotiation process, in solving and dealing with Polish matters. What was it, for example? what happened in 2019 when Prime Minister Morawiecki, flexing his muscles, came out and said: yes, we have arranged, the green order will not be implemented by Poland. And then what? And then it's December 2020 and suddenly from the European Council we find out that Prime Minister Morawiecki doesn't want CO2 emissions at all 55% was conditioned by a return for Poland or more help for Poland, only under the dictatorship of Minister Ziobra shouts that he will veto, because it is a matter of the rule of law, the most important for him. This was not the most important issue, because it is not the most important problem at the moment, it is the climate problem and the problem with what we are going to do with our economy in the transformation process. In the meantime, what's been done? Very little, because you won't say that the Fair Transformation Fund, the Modernization Fund, or the Fit for moments. 55 (The Bell), the social fund is sufficient for the transformation of Poland. Permission to 55 is a serious sin of Prime Minister Moravian. [[Applause]] [[What's the approval for 55?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u384	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar. Isn't Mr Grammar here? [[Voice from the room: Puts your shirt on.]] I would now like to ask Mrs Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today I have once again heard a lot of lies from the Civic Coalition and the Civic Platform. [[I think it's the premiere.]] I have to say, I've developed this kind of reflection. Fortunately, dear opponents, your mouth doesn't have a bone to palate while telling lies. 'Cause if you did, you wouldn't have that palate, there would be a big hole to see a blue vault. [[Someone's... ears.]] Yeah, of course. But to the point. Minister, answer the question to how many Member States The TSUE has delivered judgments and how many have complied with those judgments. Is it true that as many as 49 Member States have failed to comply with the judgment of the TEU? Minister, tell me if it's true that thanks to the efforts of the PiS government... Excuse me, miss. Member, wait a minute. ...have there been adjustments to the common agricultural policy, not just on the financial side? At current prices, Poland will receive more resources under the common agricultural policy than in the 2014-2020 perspective and will be among the biggest beneficiaries of this policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that as part of a common... [[Voice from the room: And all you had to do was learn to read.]] In the framework of the Polish transformation between the pillars of the common agricultural policy, can farmers in Poland soon reach a level of up to 93% of the European Union's average? [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: But about the farmers, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u386	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. [[Great poetry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today one of the biggest liars in Poland convicted by a final judgment of the court called the Prime Minister was withdrawing cancer from polexit. He understood, thanks to the surveys and what was happening on Sunday in the streets of Polish cities, that Poles value membership in the European Union. High Izbo, thesis on the non-profitability of membership of the Union was preached by PiS activists, scientists like Dr. Jaki. [[Where do you have the most voters?]] [[This is an oxymoron.]] For the record, I'll give you a few facts. From the beginning of EU membership to July 2021, PLN 951.3 billion went to Poland. That's twice as much as the expenditure contained in this year's budget. Only within the framework of the common agricultural policy did PLN 302.2 billion reach Poland. More facts. European Union investment accounts for 92% all foreign investments in Poland. This is concrete profits, concrete jobs, concrete economic growth that allows the government to finance social programmes. The Polish Economic Institute calculated that without the European Union we would have 12% lower GDP and 32% lower exports. Prime Minister! How small does it take to be a person to question the success of Poland's membership in the Union? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How low you have to fall, [[Applause]] Don't you want to see him? The data presented is true. Unfortunately, PiS is lying all the time. In whose interest do you want the polexit? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u388	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u389	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The platform presents the subject of current information, which, of course, contains a false thesis on the threat of Poland's position in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we are building and strengthening Poland's position, while the Platform has salvaged Poland's position. You're doing fake news about polexit. Why? Didn't you get a demonstration in D.C.? Didn't the activists get here? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[A handful of people were in Poland...]] For you, of course, Castle Square suddenly became of rubber. It's all a lie, of course. [[Oh, my God.]] That is why you continue to mislead Poles from the Seym's pulpit, lie, and cause confusion. Many areas of life - the Platform's information refers to areas of life - benefit from the support of the European Union. One area is the aid offered to entrepreneurs. The regional aid map for the period 2022.2027 is the result of cooperation between the Polish Government and the European Commission. This is the result of concrete, hard negotiations. The essence is to promote the least developed regions and reduce disparities between different regions in the country. Members of the Platform - you can see and hear it in what they said today - they do not believe in these fairy tales themselves, in those lies that shove their leader into their heads. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Platform, come to your senses. Start caring about Poland's interests. Stop with the street and abroad. Start speaking your language... [[But it's from the People's Tribune.]] ... Poles who want to support the interests of their country. Thank you. [[You quote the People's Tribune. It's a communist language.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u390	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u391	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Six years of your governments are a series of disasters in the European Union. The prime minister in this podium is a hero for whom? TVP Info. He screams great, he says, he talks, but when you have to go to the European Union and fight anything, you have to deal with it, you don't. You're losing money and you're losing influence in the Union. The Minister has just called in a fund for a fair transformation. Minister, how was it in July 2020 when 58 billion euro was on the table? Poland could receive €8 billion from these funds. Six mining regions are still waiting for that money. The Prime Minister effectively put up veto, spoke about the rule of law, but did not defend Polish money. Brought what? 4 billion from this fund. Pula amounted to EUR 17 billion and Poland received only 4 billion. Minister, what is your effectiveness? That's enough, that money hit... How does the government deal with these measures today? How does he prepare? Territorial plans, fair transformation plans were adopted by almost three regions. The national plan is a mess. No one approved him. We don't know who the money's going to go to and on the basis of what criteria. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One big mess. We have a series of disasters of law and justice and a prime minister in the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u392	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From this speaker, a representative of the applicants - very later supported by your Member - said that the Government of Law and Justice cheats, lies. Each measured by its own measure. Yeah, you're the one who cheated on the Poles. You cheated when Prime Minister Donald Tusk said he wouldn't raise the retirement age and raise it. You lied when the program 500+ was supposed to come into force that there wasn't and there wouldn't be any money. You think that since you've been cheating, the government of law and justice is cheating, too. No. Ladies and gentlemen! You were also gracious to say that the government's actions are anti-European. Do you call the government's actions that have deviated from diffusion towards even development an anti-European action? E.g. the government's actions aimed at Poland, but the whole, not only at the great... You want the European Union to be a two-speed Union, so it is also better to support big cities in Poland. What's the village for? The new regional aid map is a very good achievement because it is about ensuring that this sustainable development exists. This regional aid map, Minister, is expected to cover more than 90% of all regions in Poland. Is that true? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u394	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u395	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! September 12th, 81% Poles want to stay in the European Union. October 5th, 88% Poles want to stay in the European Union. 13 October, 90% Poles want to stay in the European Union. I will say more, and the majority of the PiS electorate wants to remain in the European Union. Moreover, about half of Poles fear that you can actually get Poland out of the European Union. In this connection, Matthew Morawiecki, who probably had the same polls, decided to calm everyone down. No. How? You? Never. But why would the Poles believe that you really want to get Poland out of the European Union? First of all, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister, referred the application to the TK. Julia Przyłębska's tribunal, among others, commented on this subject. Mrs Pavłowicz, who once said that the European Union was a slut. Well, we also heard Marshal Terletki, who was very clear that we needed drastic steps and compared us to Britain. There is also Mr Suski's statement about the Brussels occupation. Yeah, it must have been a civil coalition politician. What's that? The false report, which said that Poland lost PLN 535 billion on its membership of the European Union, at a time when really the same data shows that it gained PLN 2 trillion. If you are constantly showing that the European Union, instead of helping Poland, harms it, then don't be surprised that Poles are really afraid that you want to get us out of this European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u396	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Radosław Fogiel. [[Voice from the hall: Now there will be an anti-European and every day a Euro-enthusiast.]] Mr President, I am the one announcing this, not you. [[But he would.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u397	Mr President, maybe you'll make a career of dubbing, but it'll be another time. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! One day I would like to look forward to the day when our opposition colleagues will internalise the fact of being a member of the European Union so that they will eventually get rid of the complexes and understand that Poland is a member of the European Union on the same principles as other Member States and has the right to influence Community policy. The fact that someone says something needs to be improved, that something in the Union does not work properly, is something natural. It is not heresy and an assassination of holiness. Because that's how you react to it. [[The President has been writing a new treaty for three years.]] Mr Nitras was gracious to use the comparison to gravity. That's a very good comparison. Let me develop this metaphor. Today, in some situations, it is as if the European Union were admitting that in Poland the Earth's acceleration is 9.81, but in some countries the TSUE may consider it to be 12.5 in some situations. But I wanted to ask the Minister about specific things, namely the European energy taxonomy. The problem is to include nuclear energy in this taxonomy, and it is a great opportunity for Poland as an affordable, stable and independent source of energy. I wanted to ask you what actions (the bell) have already been taken in the EU to achieve our success, and what alliances Poland has made here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u398	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Barbara Nowack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! What Mr Morawiecki presented here today... [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister.]] ...it's probably one of his biggest failures, because if he wanted to convince someone that you were a pro-Union force and want to leave Poland in the European Union, he didn't succeed at all. [[Applause]] I feel like he once again showed that for a reason he was twice convicted of lying. What we were watching was a show of lies and hypocrisy. [[Applause]] Attacks against the European Union falling from the Seymary of the Prime Minister of the Republic directly harm the interests of Poland, damage our position in the European Union and threaten our interests, interests of all of us... [[You're hurting me.]] ...farmers, young people who, after all, benefit widely from Poland's stay in the European Union. We built great schools. You're so proud of how many nets you've put down, how great it is to have the halls. It's all thanks to the Union. You guys really want to waste this? You want to waste the future of Polish children with your dumb rhetoric just to take out some of the Confederate electorate and then lead to a crawling Polexit? What you have done with the Polish judiciary is incompatible with the Polish state's right, it is incompatible with the interests of Poles and Poles, [[Applause]] who stand before the courts and do not believe that they will be independent, looking at what Mr. Ziobro is doing. This policy is simply harmful. And one more aspect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to defend people, human rights, labour rights and really hit the European Union, which upholds women's rights, human rights and children's rights? This is unacceptable and incompatible with the interests of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u400	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Pamula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think the opposition, looking at the platform, doesn't look a little lower. Look what's in there. What's in there? [[There's two ladies over there. Not what, who. A little culture.]] Yes. What's in there? There is a relief that shows us that what we say here will be written down for posterity. And sometimes you forget that. [[Tell your prime minister that.]] Minister! Poland is actively seeking support in the field of the European Union for the inclusion of natural gas in taxonomy and opposes any ideas that deny gas the status of transitional fuel. In its Communication from the European Commission on combating rising energy prices of 13 October, prepared for the Council in October, the European Commission announced that gas should be included in the so-called "Gas." supplementing the delegated act and the new legislation supporting investment in gas for infrastructure that will not be subject to taxonomy. Poland continues to cooperate regularly within the Member States for which the maintenance of gas as a transitional fuel is important from the point of view of climate change. Is there any chance that this fuel will be included (the bell) in climate change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u402	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Mariusz Witczak for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u403	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! This lie is undoubtedly the specialization of Moravian... [[Prime Minister Morawiecki.]] ...but today he proved to be an outstanding expert in this field. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If you say you don't want to get Poland out of the European Union... [[Voice from the room: We don't want to get out.]] Unfortunately, your actions and words contradict it deeply. Why do Glapiński, Morawiecki, Suski say we can manage without EU funds? How should we interpret these words that we will manage after a pandemic without European means? Isn't that a preparation for us to leave the structures of the European Union? [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[Voice from the room: We are a free, busy country.]] [[He's been a busy man.]] Suski compared Poland's presence in the European Union... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Suski compared... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Listen to me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[So, have you had a drink yet? Have you had a drink?]] [[Voice from the room: I think you can see it.]] Suski compared the presence... [[Voice from the room: Mr Suski.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Have you had a drink yet?]] ...in the European Union for occupation. By the way, the minister seems to be making some navy cop who works for the occupier. This is the thing that Jarosław Kaczyński never cut off from. If you don't want to leave the European Union, why didn't any of you cut off Suski's words? Tell me that. Actions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Suski's messenger.]] In the European Parliament, you are organising a coalition to reform the European Union - with whom? Those who want to destroy the European Union, with Salvini, with Marine Le Pen. These are your partners, these are putinists who want to move their own countries out of the European Union. [[Applause]] So don't tell us you don't want to get Poland out of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u404	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u405	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the total opposition, what politics looked like. It's pseudoprounic in your day. [[We don't need to be reminded. We have a good memory.]] In 2006, Gazprom's management announced that the Russian gas transit charges for Poland were too high. The Russians challenged the Polish regulations which require that in the gas transit tariffs a small subsidy based on the value of the company's assets be included. Then in autumn 2009 the arbitration court in Moscow granted the right of the Polish company and ordered Gazprom to pay EuRoPol GAZ an amount of 1,200 million, which resulted from unregulated since 2006 by a Russian group of gas transfers accounts across Poland to the west of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened? Michał Kwiatkowski and Jerzy Tabaka, members of the board of directors of the company that Mr Tusk suspended, opposed it. And what did Donald Tusk and Mr Grad do? Well, on January 25, 2010. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government of Donald Tusk informed the public that as representatives of the State Treasury they agreed to write off Gazprom's debt of PLN 1200 million. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that was your pro-Union policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u406	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today it is really impossible not to refer to the performance of the Prime Minister in the Sejm, because sad and appalling was a spectacle. Behold, under the eagle in the crown, ba, under the cross, stood the Prime Minister of my country and lied. He lied, insulted and charged, not only on his fellow countrymen, but also on his partners in a common Europe. The Prime Minister of my country, who has long lost his honorable ability because of the lies confirmed by the court order. It's just that so far it's been just a shame, and sometimes it's the rage that we've been involved with, our citizens being deceived, but now there's no whole government representing us in the international arena. The government that Europe is now, and not only, looking suspiciously at as a thief. They check ten times before they trust even one euro. Because this power from trampling on European principles and the rule of law has made the philosophy of governance, brazenly denying the right to independent courts and to control the legality of spending EU money, and not only the EU. He tramples these rights only to make unpunished nepotism and simple stealing in his party and its supporters, [[Applause]] and only because, for example. the powerful money from the Reconstruction Fund, which Europeans lent together for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to rebuild [[♪ The bell ♪]] their countries and de facto allocate them to the party electoral fund. And to sacrifice in this way not only the good name of Poland, but this time also money, money which belongs to Poles and Poles. Use it for party hangovers. Today is the National Plan for Reconstruction, tomorrow the remaining European funds. Because such a policy of PiS will make this 750 billion zloty of billboards remain on billboards, not in the pockets of Poles, but will be paid back by our children and our grandchildren. Polexit, Prime Minister, it's not fake news, it's a fact. That's your fact. Today's premier lies and contempt for European principles and values are a real confirmation that PiS is long gone in Europe. Now only the PiS wants to expel Poles from it, taking money, principles, values and hope for normality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u408	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u409	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The debate is very hot and, of course, concerns a very important issue, because the sovereignty of Poland. For the past six years, we know very well that the total opposition has a method of street and abroad. [[People's Tribune again? You've read too many communist newspapers.]] But today you really are pulling out very powerful cannons in this fight against Law and Justice. The result of using these cannons will surely be your loss. Consider very carefully what you are doing, because Poles really value freedom, independence, sovereignty, independence. [[And being in the European Union.]] They want to be hosts in their own country. Allow the Member to speak. Because really for this sovereignty and independence the lives of a generation of Poles were given. You're gonna lose this war because the lie has short legs. After all, you cannot fail to see that the bodies of the European Union exceed the powers that they have in the Treaties that we have agreed to in the Accession Treaty... [[The European tanks have come in.]] ...and in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Today, Law and Justice is the guardian of Poland's sovereignty and we defend this sovereignty on a legal basis. Don't disturb me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Moscow interests]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u410	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to understand this dramatic crisis in relations with the European Union, toxic, as the Minister says, one must realise that the aim of the PiS government is to establish authoritarian power in Poland, without control... [[Voice from the room: Anarchy.]] ...so as to feed unpunishedly on state property. [[Really, even Mr. Darkness.]] In order to achieve that, this authority is trying to subjugate the judiciary. [[Judge on the phone.]] This action is contrary to... Mr. Marshal, this time this side is bothering me. I ask the Member not to comment. To achieve this, I say, they're trying to subjugate the judiciary. This action is contrary to the Polish legal tradition, with the achievements of Polish legal thought, with the great achievements of Solidarity. You raped and rejected the legacy of Solidarity. This, of course, is contrary to the system of values of the European Union, and that is why we have this great conflict. After the war, the Communists rejected Marshall's plan, a reconstruction plan that Poland did not benefit from. Your governments are for your own good. You are damaging Poland and now we will lose the great recovery plan that the European Union is introducing. [[We're not gonna lose anything.]] It must be realized that areas such as Eastern Mazowsze and many other regions in Poland (The Bell), for which the only chance to match the national average, to European standards were European funds, is losing this opportunity. [[But he's not losing anything, sir. What are you saying?]] Cities such as Minsk Mazowiecki, Ostrołęka, Siedlce through your actions lose a great chance to realize their dreams of a good life. You're hurting Poland and you're gonna pay for it. [[Applause]] [[We'll see who pays for treason.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The applicant said that the Government of Law and Justice has proputin allies. He's got proputinists, but he's got opponents. The biggest opponent of the Law and Justice Government is Mr. Donald Tusk, who has been the most proputinist politician in the last two decades alongside German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. That's the way it is, ladies and gentlemen, isn't it? [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about, man?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] The huge success of Mr Donald Tusk, the biggest President of the European Council, was the exit, Mr Britannia, from the European Union. After returning to Poland, unfortunately, these successes want to continue. But we won't let that happen. We're not gonna let that happen. Poland is the heart of Europe... [[Liver.]] ...and we're showing it right now on the east border, defending this border against the flooding of labour immigrants... [[You guys aren't doing very well.]] ...the border of Poland and Europe as a whole. [[You've made Poland the liver of Europe.]] Today you showed during the vote the construction of a permanent fence at the border with Belarus... Mr President, allow me to speak to you. [[But here the Member can't do it. He can't do it.]] Today, during the vote on the construction of a permanent fence (the bell) on the border with Belarus... [[Where are the children from Michałów?]] ...you show that you are the fifth column of Putin. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u414	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Claudia Jachira to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u415	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us consider what the Union has given us. All right, roads, bridges, stadiums, railroad upgrades, but that's what we all know. I ask specifically: What has the Union given us? I know, yes, the Internet in the Podlasie, rural skyscrapers, playgrounds, sewerage, gas. Okay, but it's every kid that knows. What exactly did the Union give us? [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam.]] Well, farmers' subsidies, yes, tractors, silos, factories, but it's no mercy, because that's what all farmers in Europe get. What else has the Union really given us? Open borders, new markets, access to international education, but not everyone likes to travel or study at school. Let us specifically ask: How much has the Union given us? How much? 2 trillion euros? But what is the 2 trillion euro against the values that we have contributed to the Union. Fraud on kilometers, questioning the rule of law, superiority of party interests over independent judges, control of the state from the back seat, stubbornness of public media, religious state, murder at borders, LGBT-free zones, restrictions on women's rights - that's what we brought to Europe. After all, the Union would not have figured it out on its own, but Kaczyński and Ziobro had to teach it to her. Thanks to these bright leaders (The Bell) Poland is widely known in Europe. [[In the world.]] We've got five minutes. I'm afraid it's the last one. [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] So what? Who's turning out the lights? [[But Claudia is not yet known in Europe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u416	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Lork.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I wanted to say, because someone in front of me asked me what Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski was doing... [[Son, son, don't spit on my shoes.]] Mr Nitras, what is this reply? [[But you can hear...]] You're an envoy and he says, son, don't spit on my shoes? [[Did you hear what that kid said?]] But, sir, almost every time you ask, you have your assists, so to speak. Really. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, did you hear what Mr. Nitras said to your messenger?]] [[No culture.]] Sit down and let your friend ask you a question. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the Commissioner responsible for agricultural policy, we have 2 billion - I will say it again - by 2 billion more. We will receive the most from all the countries of the European Union, and in the years 2023 to 2027 it is 100 billion PLN. But there's something else I wanted to remind you of. At the request of the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk, the Polish government adopted a resolution confirming its opposition to the provisions of the mobility package and decided to challenge this to the Court of Justice of the European Union. In total, seven countries submitted a complaint: Bulgaria, Cyprus, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Hungary and four countries: Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Romania, among others. to submit a complaint by Poland. The European Union itself has stated that such solutions can increase CO2 emissions across the European Union by an additional 3 million tonnes per year. The European Commission has also expressed doubts about this, which has commissioned an appropriate analysis of the impact of the regulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u418	Thank you. I now ask Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u419	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, Prime Minister Morawiecki claimed that polyxit was fake news. Really? If you're not going to escort us out of the Union, why are you and the Putinites like Orbán, Salvini or Le Pen blowing up the Union from the inside? Poles and Poles do not care whether you act consciously to the detriment of Europe and Poland, or simply out of stupidity. Prime Minister, could the anti-LGBT zones by which four voivodships had blocked subsidies - Małopolska could have lost EUR 2.5 billion by blinding you with fanaticism - this is fake news? [[It's a lie.]] Is the deformity of the judiciary and the harassment of judges fake news? Is the ruling so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal on the superiority of Polish law over the EU is supposed to be fake news? Is it supposed to be fake news to be stubbornly ignoring the TSUE's judgments in the Turov case? No. [[Voice from the room: This is the legal state.]] These aren't accidents at work. You consciously destroy the rule of law, self-government, free media, women's rights, LGBT rights, refugee rights, human rights. You consciously sabotage the energy transformation and fight for the climate. Stop destroying the foundations on which the European Union is built, because without these values there will be no Union, and without the Union our security will not be guaranteed. We have a choice: democracy with the West or authoritarianism with the East. Polish people and Poles choose the security guaranteed by the European Union. On conscious or unconscious polyxit because of your irresponsibleness there is no and there will be no consent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Marshal. Come to your senses before it's too late. If you want to go out, go out alone, but we're staying. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u420	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Casper Płażyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The rapporteur raised a very important point. Indeed, there is a problem with the Russian lobbyists in the European Union. This is a very serious matter, very dangerous to our community, and it really concerns all political trends in Europe - from the right to the left. Active politicians, ex-politics, Schröder, former French Prime Minister François Fillon, Angela Merkel, who started the Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2 issue - it is all very dangerous indeed. But in this case study, Nord Stream 2, let's show how the Polish government behaved and on the other hand how you behaved, your prominent politicians. From the beginning, the Polish government has sought sanctions to block this investment. For many years, the President of the United States has supported us in this. Later the administration changed, it was harder, but at the same time Poland achieved a great success, which means that it led the alliance of countries in Europe, our part of Europe, Central Europe, to change the gas directive, making it much harder for Germany to do business with Nord Stream 2 with Putin. And this is the success of the Polish government, our part of Europe. It's small, but it's real. He's gonna make it very difficult. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, what happened on the Civic Platform? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm going to show you this on the example of Radosław Sikorski. Ladies and gentlemen, Radosław Sikorski, your prominent politician, in 2010 said that Russia should be part of NATO, in 2015 he said that we should join the construction of Nord Stream 2. And today, ladies and gentlemen, Amnesty International has published a report showing that Radosław Sikorski on the side earns 40,000. the euro per month for consultation, as is apparent from its statement of property. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you know what such a great deal of money, mostly in the European Parliament, Radosław Sikorski takes for consultation. [[You guys make that kind of money for three days.]] Dear Minister, My question to you is this: Will you address, in this respect, whether you will address Radosław Sikorski, the question to the Chief Financial Information Inspector, whether we are dealing with some kind of money laundering or simply financing illegal, unethical or conflict of interest? I think that all Europeans have the right to know what such a great deal of money is given to Mr Radosław Sikorski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that we are unfortunately prolonging the time set for questions, the time for our debate is almost over. Nevertheless, I ask Mr Rafał Grupiński to ask a question. If the other people agree, we will reduce the time to 1 minute so that everyone can ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the 15th century, when someone from the Piccolominich family became Pope - Pius II became Pope then - all of Rome said that the city was simply filled by thousands of relatives of Piccolomini from Siena. Rome was overrun by its relatives like locusts. Hence, among others. by such behavior, the term "nepotism." The argument that is going on around polexit, what the Prime Minister was doing here today on the speaker, is in fact a dispute about value. From Europe you have taken the worst things, for example. Nepotism. You also took the worst things from Polish tradition. If anyone reads the letters, I do not know, the captain of Rzewuski to the Tsarica of Katarzyna or Szczęsny Potocki to Rzewuski or Branicki - there are wonderful patriotic phrases about love of his homeland and this fear of plague that goes from the West, among others. as a consequence of the French Revolution. It was so scared of the West that after they wrote to each other, they wrote terrified that how it could happen, well, you have to become Russian, because somehow (the bell) we wanted to protect Poland, but it didn't work out for us. You took the worst things from the Western tradition, undermining the most important values of the West, all the most important and most important things for our culture... [[Western civilization.]] ...and at the same time you took the worst traditions of the 18th century, which then led to the fall of Poland. So I suggest you think about your policy well. And don't let President Kaczyński cook you like a frog because he's slowly moving you to the East. You don't even notice... [[We have a mind of our own.]] ...and you support him uncritically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Democracy only liberal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Płonka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You, dear opposition, are cynical to pain and have mastered the art of manipulation towards the Polish society, also having your media to do so. Minister Szymański presented the United Rights Government's policy of partnership towards the European Union, not the vassals in the release of Mr Tusk and the total opposition. Speaking of justice, it's not our courts downstairs yet, because we haven't reformed them. These are still your courts, which is anti-PiS. That's exactly what it is, because I practice it every day. [[You really don't understand what the independence of the courts means.]] The State is concerned with courts at the level of the Supreme Courts, while at the bottom it is different. The Polish economy, and that is what I want to say, is warmed up to whiteness, even economic pessimists say. The total inflow of foreign direct investment in the last 5 years was around EUR 60 billion. The main (Ring) direction of the inflow was investment from the European Union, which accounted for around 84% That's the value. The question to the Minister: What is Poland's position on the world markets and on the European market at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u426	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Grabczuk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u427	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I understand that some politicians and some of the PiS activists may not understand the modern world, the modern Europe, but you must understand. In the last six years, you have started conflicts with almost all - with Germany, with the French, with the United States, with Israel, in the recent period with the Czech Republic. There's no third road today. Today is either the East or the West. We lost our influence, we lost our high position, we could lose our money. And I'm surprised, because the dictatorships have always said it, the communists have said it... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, hold on, I have never disturbed you. It also shows a certain culture. ...the communists also said, please stay out of this, these are our internal affairs. And the worst thing is that the state in the battle for the posts with the Confederation to push the Confederation, risk billions of zlotys for Poland, risk our prestige. It's really unforgivable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u428	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakovska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fit for 55 is a package of EU regulations aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. This reduction of greenhouse gases is intended to force Europeans. Let me be clear: this package is simply a nail to the coffin of the economy not only Polish but also European. Let us remind you that the European Union has begun with the European Coal and Steel Community, but if we do nothing about it, it will end with a piece of junk in the community. This is what EU climate policy leads to. And there's no reason to believe that the world will stop with us. The world is just gonna fly away from us, and we're gonna be defenseless, weak and poor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The dilemma of an average European will be whether to warm his own apartment or stay with an empty wallet. It's already expensive today, and it's gonna be a few times more expensive. I have a question: What will the Polish government do to stop this madness before the green fanatics ruin the European Union and Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u430	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna Wojciechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u431	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me be brief: we're in conflict with all the neighbors, and not only that. Fortunately, some Poles, a large part of Poles, do not imagine that we can leave the European Union. If we do not want to be influenced by our eastern neighbour, Putin, we have only another choice: the European Union, which gives us security, stability, military and economic security. I'm not gonna talk about this anymore. Poles want their children to be safe, fed, healthy and have a job. The Union's overarching objective is the rule of law and respect for human rights. Is that so much? Our negotiations on accession to the Union were long lasting and then we agreed to the EU's conditions. Is the current government aware of its actions? Does he really want good Poles? Millions of Poles live in European countries. These are our children, our families. Do you want to isolate these people from our country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal: If you set up a wall on the western border - because you probably want it too - then families, these parents will get you out of your offices. They're not gonna give it to you. They're gonna go out on the street. And these are your family values? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u432	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u433	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You had an opportunity - I am speaking here to the opposition side, and especially to the PSL Members - to remain silent about the negotiations. You didn't do it. I'll remind you how you negotiated. How much money has Parliament allocated under the 2014-2020 perspective? Mr President, I am speaking now, not you. The marshal assigned me a voice. Please ask us to ask you a question. How much less have you negotiated than the amounts proposed by the Commission and proposed by Parliament? I also remember very well what the Minister here (the bell) said at the Senate meeting in this Chamber when there was a budgetary debate on this subject. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u434	Thank you very much. Please. [[Now there's gonna be a fire.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u435	Don't bother, buddy, don't bother. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I very much regret that your marshal did not allow you to sing this anthem of the European Union, because I would allow you two hymns to sing: the European Union and the German anthem, because that is the policy you are conducting. [[Jesus Christ.]] And it is not that the European Union needs Poland because it is, but also Poland needs the European Union. I could give many examples when the Union learned from Poland. [[Eat with a fork, with a fork.]] The current example. 2015 migratory crisis. You and the Western politicians say let in. Today, after 6 years, the European Union speaks Polish. [[But take that finger.]] It will be the same with judicial reform, when unfortunately these leftist governments will bring many sovereign, national countries down. People will see that Poland was, of course, right in this regard. Are you guys talking about polexit today that someone wants to leave the European Union? You're the ones who want to leave Poland. [[No, the whole of Europe must change.]] Or Poland was never in you. You can tell by your actions. And remember the most important thing... [[Calm down.]] ...that first he defends himself and works for his own home (The Bell) and our home is Poland. Work for Poland and later work for the European Union and for Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're out of your mind and he's not coming back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u436	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Zubowski. If there isn't... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question about the threat of Poland's position in the European Union and the impact of government policy on relations with the institutions of the European Union is a clear suggestion that this position has deteriorated in recent years. In the meantime, that is not true. The fact is that over the years of the Citizen Platform and the leader whom the German media have described as easy to breed, Poland has been very vulnerable to some countries, agreeing with the role of the low-cost labour reserve and the market for less-quality goods in western chains. It's the government of law and justice that changed it and changed it. It is the Government of Law and Justice that ensures that Poles and Poles are not treated in the European Union as third-class citizens. It is this government that takes care of Polish interests. It is not surprising, therefore, that those whose interests have been affected and their supporters will be absolutely opposed. Unfortunately, they also sit on the benches of this House. Poland and Poles have the right to self-determination. Our judiciary has the right to apply solutions in other European countries, and the European Union has no other rights than those granted to them by ourselves. The same rights (The Bell) to self-determination for all - I will remind the supporters of tolerance and the rule of law - not bigger for older members of the European Union, and others, worse or less for Poland, and after the gracious acceptance of EU officials. You're all in favour of different orientations. It's time for you to know about Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u438	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Poland is a sovereign country in the European Union and one of the important elements is cooperation in many areas. The last time he showed, among other things, that such a field is our health. The infection caused by the coronavirus showed that this is really something that determines the course of things. Europe should be better prepared for further threats. A new initiative has emerged to build a European Health Union. I have a question. There's a HERA, as if a new response authority in health situations. How does the Minister feel about this initiative? Is there a possibility of greater cooperation? Will this somehow coincide with or affect existing offices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, a list of those who have been put to the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u441	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask, because Parliament, the Sejm, as a control body, often controls the government's work. A very important question for me is how do you, as a minister, assess the work on the international stage, just Polish parliamentarians? Because we have countries. often control, as a legislative authority... [[Black, great. Czarnecki, sztos.]] I'd like to ask the Minister how... But could you let me finish my statement? Will you calm down? Mr. Marshal, would you mind? Mr Kaczmarczyk, let me ask you a question. You're welcome, Madame. [[He's asking for a MEP, and Czarnecki's famous.]] Do you want to come out here? But please, come on, will you sing something? You were a great singer in Idol. Excuse me, sir. You're gonna sing something, come on in. May I? [[Get your shit together.]] No, please, sir. But how do you get it together? Come, sing. [[I've already told you all about Czarnecki.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. Do you still want to speak? There you go. How much time do I have, Marshal? [[I think it's best that it's over.]] Ask me. Thank you very much. Minister! I would like to ask if the cooperation of the Polish parliament, the cooperation of parliamentarians in the international arena, showing how they represent Polish interests is satisfactory for the Minister? Does this way of rhetoric, building narratives, building a polexit agenda have a good impact on negotiations as regards the EU budget? And last question: we want to build a wall on the border with Belarus, build security, you vote against. I'll tell you this: you can't build border security with dictation, October, rocks with poop and duct tape. Vote for the security of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u442	Thank you very much. That concludes all the questions. The Members were to ask them. However, Mr Kałużny could weigh his words by addressing Mr Grupiński, who was sitting for free Poland in prison... [[Mr. Marshal, of course...]] ...and please because of his biography and age have a little more respect. [[But he said I was out of my mind. It's insulting.]] [[Who are you talking to? Can you hear yourself? A mouth full of clichés.]] Please respond to the Minister... Excuse me. Mr Dariusz Rosati, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u443	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In fact, I am now addressing Minister Szymanski and I would like to say, Minister, that I am actually sorry for you. I very much agree with you about your efforts to achieve the best possible results, or... [[Game in the O.R.]] Do you even have to disturb your colleague? [[He came to me, I'm good.]] ...in these negotiation processes, I just wanted to draw your attention to something else. In my opinion, you are, in fact, largely alone in this activity. We have had many opportunities to talk, we have different views of the European Union, but I am aware that you are doing the best you can. But I'm afraid you can't do much, because I'm wondering how these gestures... We talked a lot about gestures, we talked a lot about words. Words are important and they create an atmosphere that either helps or interferes with cooperation. We had in the case of Mrs Szydło the first gesture - the removal of EU flags. You're saying that polyxit is fake news, but you were supposed to be running EU flags. President Duda drove around Poland and said: it's an imaginary community, and added: European Union, fairy tale, fairy tale for suckers. None of you said that you shouldn't say that, because we want to be in the Union, they say you want to be in the Union. Recently, we have had some crazy comments: Mr Suski, one of the most important Members of Law and Justice, I understand, who is talking about the Brussels occupation. Mrs. Stawska-Traczyk could tell you what occupation is all about, but I don't think she's gonna want to talk to him at all. [[Applause]] What I'm trying to say, Minister, is that you don't underestimate the atmosphere and what your colleagues are doing, not the party, because I don't think you're a member of Law and Justice unless you signed up, members of the ruling party. We are dealing with a situation in which there is simply a ruining of Polish reputation regardless of what efforts you will make. We have a festival of anti-European speeches in recent weeks. Perhaps this is due to the fact that the KPO is simply not moving forward. Mr. Glapiński says we can borrow anywhere and borrow, we have plenty of money. Mr Morawiecki also says: actually we do not need this money, and a few years ago he said: actually, why does this Union, it finances our sidewalks, and we need new technologies, etc. What's the point of saying that? The Prime Minister is going to the European Parliament next week. I ask you very much to convince him not to make the mistake of Beata Szydło, who did an incredible number there a few years ago, telling stories about this economic miracle on the Vistula River and that Poland will now teach Europe how to build society, shape economy, foreign policy, etc. If you want to do something in the European Parliament, gentlemen, unless you don't care at all... But if you want to do something, let the Prime Minister turn to these people, taking them seriously, because everything, mostly what we hear from his mouth, seems like he's talking to idiots. This is really ridiculous. Today we had a sample of extremely arrogant, extremely unpleasant behavior from the Prime Minister, who just lied. [[Applause]] He lied about anyone in this room questioning that the Constitution is the primary law of the Republic of Poland. I don't know who's got that kind of idea that we're questioning that the constitution is the most important thing. Where'd you guys get this? From who? Who told us that he was defending sovereignty before the European Court. Explain to the Prime Minister that Poland, when entering the European Union, has agreed to restrict the exercise of sovereignty rather than restrict its own sovereignty. Don't you understand? [[Applause]] You've all got mouths full of patriotic, pseudo-triotic clichés, and all of this is needed because you have to find the enemy. This enemy is Brussels. And you say polyxit is fake news. How are we to believe after this series of speeches with the crowning of all these statements, the statements made by Mr Marek Suski and Mr Marshal Terletki, who said that we need to resort to drastic measures that the British have done so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the way, Marshal Terlecki is famous for restricting Members' statements, cutting them off immediately. I think sometimes you guys should make sure he turns off the microphone when he talks such nonsense. [[Applause]] I'd also like to ask you... Time is running out, so I'm not going to go into all these details anymore. If we were talking about the fact that the single market is important, then why are we losing the mobility package or access to services? After all, at the moment these are worse conditions than we had five years ago when it comes to the access of Polish companies. We fully agree when it comes to the need to protect borders, also when it comes to the tough border. Why don't we reach for Frontex's help now that the border is jammed like a sieve. You don't care about the safety of Poland. We have a few thousand illegal crossings as far as anyone caught by the Border Guard is concerned. What is this guarantee of Poland's security? [[Applause]] Reach for Frontex's help. Ask for intelligence assistance from NATO countries. Why aren't we doing anything in Iraq and Syria to stop the influx of refugees in Belarus? [[Voice from the Chamber: You voted.]] It's not like you're doing anything about it. You may benefit from the help of the Euro-Messengers of Law and Justice, but it has already been mentioned here. There are 27 of them, but just as in Kochanowski, they are full of them, and as if there is no one, because they are doing something else. Dear Minister! You've got a lot of work to do, and I really have to tell you that I'm very sorry for your loss. But I think that this debate will at least make you aware, or at least maybe your surroundings, of whether it will also succeed, as regards the other representatives of the power camp, that actually if you do not want to bring Poland out of the European Union, then these differences between us are a matter of nuance and not of principles. But we're not sure you don't want to do it, because it's Morawiecki's speech today... I had doubts about whether you all really wanted to come out of the European Union, but he convinced me because, as I said, half an hour of speaking and twice said: polexit is fake news and then attacked the Union in such a way that they would not be ashamed of this Salvini, Le Pen or maybe President Putin. So, Minister, let us treat this exchange of views as the beginning of a real discussion about what to do so that Poland better pursues its interests in the European Union, not as a forum for the exchange of blows, from which there is nothing good about Poland. We have some responsibilities here, we can't behave like this. If we all want to believe what you say you do not want to leave the Union, stop attacking it and stop inventing things like the fact that the constitution is supposedly not the highest law. You can't do that. And finally. You have led to such a situation, and it is very humiliating for Poland, in my opinion, that you are hanging on the doorknob of Orbán, because if it were not for him and Hungary to deal with the article. 7 against Poland would already lead to a serious reduction of our membership rights. We don't make up all these situations. There are 26 other Member States that have the same opinion as the European Commission and the Court of Justice, and if not that, as I said, humiliating you are dependent on Prime Minister Orbán, then Poland would already have suffered massive losses, and this is unfortunately the result of the fact that you have driven yourselves away, you have been seduced by this most radical part of the power camp, the politicians of Solidarna Polska, who are pushing the Prime Minister to the wall with these anti-European ideas. When going to the European Parliament, the Prime Minister should remember that he is the Prime Minister of Poland, not the Prime Minister of Solidarna Polska or just PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Szymański, Minister for European Union Affairs, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this invitation, which came at the very end of this debate, to deal together with these things in the Polish policy towards the European Union, in the European Union, which are important. But the question is, we had almost two hours ago, whether we invested this time well. Did we make good use of that time, precisely from this point of view, because I definitely share the intention. I'm having second thoughts. I've tried to take care of things that I would never call details. That's the word that came out here. The common market, industrial policy, the Union's policy towards Russia, energy policy, climate policy and finally migration. Most of that stuff. These are things burning here and now. These aren't abstract hypothetical problems, these are things for now. Let's face it, I actually did it halfway. This, of course, will not discourage me for the future, but the outcome of this test is very limited. Words are of course important. Most of these speeches were about words, other people's words, different interpretations, sometimes torn out words, but even more important are facts. My introductory speech in this debate was only about facts. I have not been looking in query for more or less successful statements on how we should treat the Union. I was just looking for the facts. It didn't have the expected effect, I guess. We all see it at the end of this debate. The European Parliament - called here to take it seriously. Of course, I am wholeheartedly in favour of taking very seriously all the international partners of Poland, in the European Union in particular. This is our closest political environment. But maybe there is a time, once every five years, to ask ourselves, does the European Parliament take Poland seriously? Are all the words that are spoken in this Parliament fair to Poland? Did Poland deserve much of the declarations that fall there, sometimes in writing? Did Poland deserve to be treated in such a way that many people in Poland, unfortunately more and more people in Poland, have a legitimate belief that some Western politicians treat Central Europe as a second category. That some politicians - I stress: some politicians, but perhaps a growing part - would prefer a Union in which we have double standards, in which the same political processes are treated differently in one country or in another country. The mobility mentioned here is a good example. Poland disagrees, disagreed, is also taking active action in the Court of Justice of the European Union as regards the provisions of the mobility package, which are indeed an expression of the European trend towards protectionism. If someone is looking for an answer to why this is happening, he should look for it in other capitals, not in Warsaw. He should also look for this answer in those capitals that you are showing us today as examples to follow; which, willingly, but also with your applause, let us be honest, present themselves as examples of Europeanity; which, moreover, want to account for the europeanity of others. These are the same capitals that promote protectionism in the common market, a reduction in the budget as regards the most important tasks to be financed by the European Union, which block enlargement policy in the Western Balkans, which limits the degree of engagement in the Eastern Partnership. What is the effect of these efforts, the most pro-European capitals you give us as an example? The result is one: the European Union is weaker. The European Union is unable to respond as it can to the challenges of today. Poland in this dispute is on the other side, and you know it of course. Poland is too big a budget, behind the common market, behind active Eastern policy, behind active enlargement policy. And we are the ones in the end who are not European enough. Who builds the scenario of strengthening Europe and who builds Europe under the blue flag - actions, not words, sometimes lofty words - is really building Europe's weakness? [[Where's the Weimar Triangle?]] Very many words have been said here about something that I believe should remain for longer, also in this House, i.e. the whole package of changes in climate policy. Among those 40 questions, I'll allow myself one question to remain in this room as well. On the part of the Civic Platform Member, I have heard that consent to climate policy is a sin. I would like to ask, given also the coalition nature of the club, whether this is the official position of the Civic, Modern and Green Platform Club. Because it's the first time I've heard so far-reaching opinions, so categoric opinions that have come out in this room. I think they're dead... It was a simple sentence, easy to find in the transcript. I would like to hear whether this is really your position on this issue. 'Cause if it was, there'd be a funny place swap. [[It's not.]] Because for my part, I can say one thing: the delays in the transition cause us to have an ever higher cost of this transformation. Today, the art is to reconcile transformation with requirements, social conditions, economic conditions of Central Europe and Poland. And Poland is doing it. Without Poland today there would be no discussion about taxonomy in the gas area. We don't do this alone. We are among the 11 countries that are seeking to put gas as an essential fuel for energy transformation. The second area that determines energy security, in particular for consumers, but also in a strategic dimension, is the role of nuclear energy. Here Poland is also an active participant in the coalition of nine countries which seek to have a place for nuclear energy in the European Union. Without Poland, this discussion would be much, much weaker. But the most important thing in climate policy is the issue that Poland introduced into international circulation, i.e. the fair nature of the transformation. COP24 - President of this UN climate conference was Minister Michael Kurtyka. Without it, this term, which today is the main basis of our entire argument in the EU debate, but also in the UN, would not be an officially recognised aspect of climate change. It's very important. This is not just about, perhaps, the most important thing in society, the protection of those who are at risk of energy poverty as a result of the European Union's climate policy. It is also about a fair distribution of these costs between countries, between national economies and between economic sectors. On this we build a whole range of postulates and, contrary to what you say here in a very bleak tone, some of them are well heard. These postulates, which Poland has been making since the beginning, have been well heard for 2 years. They are not always accepted yet, but they are clearly understood. Firstly, maintaining the solidarity pool in the case of allowances. Secondly, the increase already today, at the beginning of this road, and yet we are far from ending it, the funds under the Modernization Fund. These are concrete billions of euros for energy transformation in Poland. Thirdly, maintaining the basic criteria for housing, transport, i.e. those most socially sensitive elements of climate policy. Fourthly, the socio-climate fund I mentioned, the Fair Transformation Fund. In all these areas Poland is beneficiary number one. I am not saying that this justifies the agreement on climate policy. We're a long way from that point. It will be dramatic months and perhaps years of these negotiations. But I want to point out that Polish postulates are on the table, they are in this game. Another issue, of course, is the protection of the energy-intensive producers market, which we still have in Poland and we want to have them, and we want them to develop. I mean glass mills, cement mills, steel mills, paper factories and manufacturers from many other industries with a highly energy-intensive nature. The proposal to introduce safeguard mechanisms at the external borders, customs of the European Union, is a solution to Polish expectations. Of course, it is the answer to not only Polish expectations, but Poland was the loudest to note that if climate policy develops without this correction, we will actually end up in a pile of scrap metal, as it has been said here. Many other solutions gain our recognition. That doesn't mean this case is closed. This issue, as rarely as it actually affects not only the economy, but also society. Therefore, as part of the experiment, let us think for a moment in this House, whether it should not be a toy for each other to lay down, but perhaps an element of possible and it seems to me that the obvious, to be honest, so private, social consensus in Poland. It's not a question of politics, it's a question of mathematics. The point is to see what models of climate policy are for us, and what they are for us, for our interests dangerous. The current impasse around the National Plan for Reconstruction, I wanted to stress this very strongly, has nothing to do with the Budget Protection Regulation, which has been the object of huge controversy over the last 2 years, and in particular in December, in this last phase of negotiations. I am convinced that if the European Commission keeps to its own commitments, which we have also insisted on as a European Council, we do not need to have any concerns as to whether the Polish money from KPOs is safe. They're safe. This impasse will be defeated by political methods. I am convinced that there are enough people of good faith, both on the Polish side and on the EU side, to simply straighten this matter out. Potentially, it is an element that can spoil a lot of blood. Poland is of course the main beneficiary not only the Fund for Reconstruction, but also the multiannual financial framework, these other budget lines, and this should also be strongly noted in this House. Before you go to the stage of announcing that this money is at risk, that we may not have it, that we are actually giving it away, let us note that Poland has had a clear negotiating success in terms of the budget. Poland is, I think, a unique country where this kind of success... I have watched this process closely, especially at the very end, also in the capitals, and I will say that Poland is a unique beneficiary country of all budget lines, which has problems ratifying this budget and this fund. This is a unique situation which shows the curiosity of Polish politics. This shows how easy it is to set a Polish policy on fire just for fun or as part of competition, to be a little more noble, but unhealthy competition, let's be honest. I think it would be good in EU policy to think what it would be worth to exclude from this game, which sometimes exhibits grotesque features. And one last thing. The fact that Poles have huge support for Polish membership in the European Union has been recalled here. That is, of course, true, but you should also point out that simple math shows that Law and Justice are part of this pro-European majority. So I do not understand why part of this pro-European majority is still put against the wall and accounted for whether it has a clear conscience about Poland's membership of the European Union. 88% Polish citizens support this membership. Without the Law and Justice, that would not have happened. If we want to keep this state that seems so stable today, we cannot repeat over and over again that in the 15th year, maybe more today, after 15 years of membership Poland is to be a country with accession status all the time, a country that accepts solutions prepared by others, politely applies them and does not comment. Such a model of membership maintained in logic accession is the easiest way for Poles to finally get tired of this Union. And the sense of long-term politics... It is about ensuring that we do not follow in the footsteps of many Western countries, which today have legitimate concerns as to whether they are able to win the European referendum. You know which countries are concerned - the same ones that represent the most pro-European ones, but they lose one referendum after another. It is about referendums that have anything to do with the European Union. Poland is still not on this road. If we do not want to go down this road, let us together make sure that the Union is a comfortable place for Poland, a comfortable place for Poles, so that there is no suspicion that it is a place where, although it is possible to be, we should not speak. The idea is for Poles to feel that as a country, as a nation, as representatives of different divisions of public opinion, they have exactly the same status. Today they have reasonable doubts about this. And it's a dangerous process. Instead of cementing it, let's change that. Perhaps together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u446	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to thank all those who were at your disposal today. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week government representatives announced in all media about the investment guarantees contained in the National Plan for Reconstruction, even though they did not receive more than EUR 20 billion. Minister of Education and Science in response to the question of how government He could manage without EU money to help the Polish economy, he pointed to huge levels in the state budget. Marek Suski informed that Poland's contribution to the European Union is comparable with its resources. NBP President Adam Glapiński said that we are able to ensure a dynamic development of the economy even without funds from the Union. Meanwhile, former Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, who co-created the ruling coalition for six years, informs us that creative accounting was used in budget creation, which will force the government to make serious cuts in 2023, and the budget itself has a huge hole that is being hidden. I would therefore ask you to indicate whether the objectives of the NPO will be implemented even if EU funds are not received. Where will the funds come from if they are not included in the budget? Is the budget hole bigger than you point out in the official data, as the former Deputy Prime Minister informs us?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u448	Current information on the threat of Poland's position in the European Union and the impact of government policy in relations with the institutions of the European Union on all areas of socio-economic life, ranging from climate, education, self-government, agriculture, investment, development and security of Poland. In Europe, the PiS government's foreign policy comes down to maintaining the declaration of willingness to remain in the EU and that is the end of it. All other activities distance us from Europe. The balance of foreign policy is terrible and everyone knows it very well. The conflict is chasing a conflict. The impact of government policy on relations with the institutions of the European Union is already affecting society. Where are the billions of euros to be allocated to the National Reconstruction Plan? The costs of the so-called Polish Load is 72 billion PLN per year. Where are you gonna get that kind of money? You are trying to manipulate the transmission of information all the time, but you cannot answer this question, and you know very well that the KPO funds are extremely supportive to our economy. Your actions effectively reduce our position in the European Union, as a country, we are in conflict with an increasing number of countries and our closest neighbours. There is probably no area of socio-economic life in which our country would not be in dispute with the European Union. And it's all your fault!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u449	On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 39th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. And first, please take the floor of Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we celebrate National Education Day, the celebration of teachers, educators and a whole group of supporting staff, as well as administrative and service staff, cooks, authorising officers, economic and janitor workers. As former Deputy Marshal of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and Deputy President of Bydgoszcz, I had the honour to cooperate with Bydgoszcz schools, youth palace, youth cultural houses, teachers' colleges and special schools from the area of the entire voivodship. That's why I know there's nothing going on in schools on its own. Each educational and educational effect is followed by the efforts of teachers, principals and school workers and their high competences and professional passions. On behalf of thousands of students and their parents who use your knowledge and values daily, I would like to thank you from this place for your daily hard work, commitment, empathy and care for the highest standards of performance. The profession of teacher and teacher is one of the professions with the highest authority and social trust in Poland. It's a strict elite among others, no less important, competitions all over the world. Therefore, from this place I wish all Polish, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Bydgoszcz teachers that this profession brings you nothing but pride, satisfaction and a sense of fulfillment. And that your professional success should always be accompanied by health, well-being, recognition and happiness and health of families and loved ones. With each month of this year, teachers' salaries lose by more than 6% our value in relation to inflation, which means we have reductions in education, while the increase is not on the horizon. The effects of inflation will be even greater next year, and in the draft State budget for 2022 there is no inflationary compensation and there is not a single zloty for increases for teachers and school workers. Therefore, I wish the teachers a change of this Minister of Education and his deputies. I know that in place of Minister Czarnek, another political officer may be brought in the briefcase, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's worth a try. Members of the Left will certainly support teachers and educational workers and support and promote independent from dirty politics, European, Polish school. Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of National Education Day, everything's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u451	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Grzegorz Lork.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time I will not discuss matters concerning the region from which I come from. I will remind you of an episode that is sometimes forgotten, one that remains somewhat in the shadow of the main events of the first World War II campaign called the September campaign. This episode is the battle of Kock on October 2, the last battle of this campaign. At the end of September, the fights were already over. On 29 September, Warsaw capitulated, and the day after that Modlin fortress. On that day, the Germans began entering the capital. In the east, the Soviets were swallowing larger and larger areas of the Kresów. Vilnius, Grodno and Lions are down. Meanwhile, in the space between two enemies, in a free area, the last large Polish unit was maneuvered - the Independent Operation Group - Polesie, under the command of Brig-Gen Franciszek Kleeberg. The Independent Operational Group spolesie-Polesie was an improvised tactical union, which was founded mostly on the basis of the reserve centres of the 20th and 30th infantry divisions, headed by the mentioned General Kleeberg. The union was supposed to defend Polesia on Muschavec and Pripyat. When the Soviets entered on September 17, this task proved impossible. The Polish troops met on the way, among others, with Kleeberg's retreating units. Sailors from the self-sinked water flotilla of the Polish Navy and the evacuated Navy Squad. The intention of the group's staff was to provide help defending Warsaw or, if this proves impossible, go to the Holy Mountains to continue war in guerrilla form or to enter Romania or Hungary. General Kleeberg's troops were pressed from the east and west. Polish soldiers fought against both the Germans and the Soviets. These winning battles did not matter to the strategic position of the Independent Operational Group When General Kleeberg was informed of the capitulation of the capital, he was overcome by moral doubts. He realized that the campaign was lost, and that continuing the fight could be considered a warlord's blood scoop. However, when he saw the enthusiasm of his army, he decided to give Germany a battle. The problem was a small amount of ammunition held by Polish troops. The battle began on 2 October 1939. On that day, in the north, he capitulated the Reinforced Division. The Kock district, Radzyń, Łuków became the arena of important battles of Kleeberg's soldiers against the German 13. Mechanized Division and 29. The Infantry Division. The struggle lasted for several days, and the solstice took place on 5 October at Wola Gułowska. The Poles managed to break one of the German divisions, but this success was immediately overshadowed by the report of the Polish quartermastership, which stated that there were no rifle ammunition and dressing agents. Capitulation talks began with the German command. At first, General Podhorski, who was in charge of the cavalry, refused to surrender in order to break south, but after consulting him, he gave up his intention. The legend was passed by the words of a German parliamentarian, who supposedly asked with concern whether the cavalry was also capitulate. I'm afraid General Kleeberg hasn't seen the end of the war. He had a heart condition and died in April 1941. On one of the Polish cemeteries on the battlefield there are the words of the general: "We have nothing to accuse ourselves of. We've kept our soldier's honor to the end. One day, when the country demands a bill from us, we can answer every question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u453	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Sławomir Skwark.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In early October this year. the 100th anniversary of the start of activity by the first Polish folk university. It was created after regaining independence in Dalki near Gniezno on the initiative of Fr. Antoni Ludwiczak, a great Polish patriot, social activist, educator of rural youth, creator of the conspiracy Society Tomasz Zan, long-time president of the Society of People's Readers, chairman of the Warminski Plebiscite Committee, finally a Member of the Legislative Sejm and chairman of the Seym of the Education Commission, prisoner of German concentration camps murdered in the gas chamber in Austrian Hartheim. The concept of folk university grew from the philosophical, religious, political and social traditions of Scandinavia. Nicholas Grundtvig is considered the father of spiritual folk universities. Born in the first half of the 19th century on the basis of its idea of a school for life, an educational institution combining patriotic education and civic education as a whole and the promotion of rural culture as an important component of national culture in a short period of time has become a recognized idea of educational and cultural work in rural environments. Discussions and studies on the possibility of establishing Polish folk universities were undertaken before our homeland regained independence. However, it was only in the Second Republic thanks to the efforts of Fr. Anthony Ludwiczak and his associates. On 4 October 1921 a solemn opening took place by the Primate of Poland. Card. Edmund Dalbor's first such facility in Poland. One day later, class began in it. In the interwar period, nearly 30 different folk universities were established throughout the country. In the UL- movement two separate but cooperating trends developed: ecclesiastical and secular. Their further development was hindered by World War II. After it was completed, only in 1945 and 1948 they tried to regain their former meaning. However, their role in the rural environment has been significantly reduced by the communists and their folk activists. Some recovery in this area came in August 1980, but plans to expand the network of folk universities effectively torpedoed martial law. The renewed hopes for the development of the UL-ov movement brought about changes in Poland after 1989. Unfortunately, despite the excited hopes and several attempts it turned out that in the extremely liberal reality of the Third Republic of Poland there is no place for this type of facility. We had to wait until 2015, when the electoral programme of Law and Justice called for the strengthening of civil society in the countryside, and as one of the instruments for this task, it was the folk universities that were identified. After the preparatory work since autumn last year, a government programme to support the development of folk universities was launched, the operator of which is the National Institute of Freedom. The first results are already visible today, and I hope, following the conclusions of the big international debate at the conference held on 4 and 5 October this year. in Szczecin, exactly during the opening century of the folk university in Dalki, that there will soon be more and more of them. To conclude my statement, I would like to ask Members of Parliament to support the idea of covering our homeland with a network of folk universities and individual initiatives of this type that arise in your local communities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u455	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Kurzepa to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u456	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Teachers and Teachers, Polish Teachers! On the occasion of the feast of teachers, I address you with a few words of reflection and warm wishes coming from the awareness of the difficulty of your participation in the process of educating and raising the next generations of Poles. About the hard work of the day You know best. The charms of this profession, too. No one can take away from you either, because both sides of your profession are included in his specifics. I would like to stay for a moment on those aspects of this profession that make it unique and thus make it unique for people who perform it, nobilitate it and also make it unique. First, giving to another man - the most vivid example of pragmatic humanism - to do good for another man through his teaching and upbringing, so as to extract from him the most beautiful resources and talents that he has been endowed with. It's the subject and the object of your involvement. Thank you very much for this dedication. After the second, building functional connections between yesterday, today and tomorrow in the sense of drawing from the vast sources of knowledge found, encyclopedic, multilateral, as well as this closer, cordial, because connected with the development of the culture of the nation, from which we grow, to shape the new quality of human presence in the world and prepare it, and through it - new tomorrow. Therefore, you are, honorable teachers, heirs of knowledge from the past, blacksmiths of the present and, at the same time, creators of the future. It's a rare combination of a full time capsule that you need to control. Congratulations on this timeless passage. Third, you are like reeds in the wind, waving in accordance with a barely glowing wind or well formed after its madness. You have incredible sensitivity and stamina. Sensitivity and warm tenderness characterizes you in relation to the barely signaled blows of the needs of your subjects, such as the tender barometer, the cordial barometer. You are often the first, too often the only recipients of these needs. Don't put that skill out in you ever again. In turn endurance, also in the sense of the professional group, is revealed in the common sense survival of the variability of educational policy, the concept of the school, its constant reform, improvement and happiness. You can't be too smart. Teachers, keep it up! What's the last word? I've met happy teachers in my life. The only problem is that their happiness is unduly postponed because it produces a wise, good, happy life for their children. I wish you their happiness, because it will prove that your life and your work make sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u457	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 14 October 1993, exactly 28 years ago, i.e. On the 50th anniversary of the armed uprising of the prisoners of the camp, the Museum of the Former Nazi Holocaust Camp in Sobibor, now known as the Museum and Memorial Site in Sobibor, was established. This museum is located within the village of Żłobek near Sobibor, in the area of the German extermination camp during World War II. Initially, it was a subsidiary established in 1981. Museum of the Łęczynsko-Włodawski Lake District. The museum complex at that time consisted of a monument of a Jewish mother with a child, a mound with ashes of the victims of the camp and a museum building located at the former railway station, connected with other parts of the museum so-called. It's a memory trail. The building houses a permanent exhibition of the "Sobibor" - death camp. It was opened in 2000. In June 2011, due to financial difficulties and lack of support from the Ministry of Culture of the Museum of the Former Nazi Holocaust Camp, it was temporarily closed to visitors. In May 2012, the facility became a branch of the State Museum in Majdanek. Today the museum is open to visitors, a new form of commemoration of the victims of genocide is created in Sobibor, i.e. crimes against humanity. The permanent exhibition at the Museum and Memorial in Sobibor presents objects found during excavation research conducted in the former German extermination camp in 2000 and 2017. In a case of 25 m long - it is the longest case of this type in such a museum - which is the center of the exhibition, as well as in smaller cases installed in the walls you can see more than 700 exhibits, mainly personal items belonging to the victims of the German crimes, but also relics related to the functioning of the camp and things belonging to the perpetrators. The preserved keys to the house, hygiene, watches, and glasses show that their owners did not realize that they had been brought to Sobibor to death until the last moment. Exhibited at the exhibition museums, which seemingly seem worthless, such as cutlery, dishes or scissors, have as much meaning as jewelry and personal souvenirs. To their owners, they were an expression of the hope of living in the shadow of destruction, and at the same time they were a link with the houses from which they were taken. Among the thousands of anonymous items found, there are also a few personalized items of great emotional value. In autumn 2017, archaeologists extracted many objects from the dump pit near the railway ramp, which the Germans buried during the liquidation of the camp after the uprising and escape of prisoners in October 1943. Between pieces of glasses, bricks, fragments of metal dishes and wires were found a small rectangular plate cut out of a silver envelope pocket watch. After cleaning the surface, you could read the hand engraved dedication: Felk - Ida Ewa Jola, 1932, surrounded by geometric ornament. Small holes were drilled in the corners, through which probably the thread or chain was drilled. This inconspicuous piece of silver sheet was supposedly a bracelet, a very personal gift given to someone who lost his life in Sobibor. The recently opened exhibition was the SS-Sonderkommando Sobibor. The German extermination camp 1942-1943 is intended not only to show the history of the place. By means of hundreds of exhibits, documents, photographs and relations, the memory is recalled by about 180 thousand. Nameless victims, men, women and children sentenced to cruel death because of their origin. A day like today reminds us of events that shouldn't have happened, but unfortunately they did. It is important to remember this and to work so that it never happens again. I encourage anyone who has not yet been here to visit this place, to lean over presented exhibits and moments of reflection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u459	Thank you very much. I now ask Anna Wojciechowska to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u460	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present today the position of the City Council of Elku and the President of the City of Elku on the refugee crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border, because Elk, the beautiful city of Elk, is located near the Polish-Belarusian border. That's why there's this appeal. The appeal is signed by the President of the City of Ełku by Mr Tomasz Anprzyciewicz and by the President of the City Council of Ełk by Mr Włodzimierz Szelążek. In view of the ongoing refugee crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border and the inhumane treatment of citizens and citizens of other countries trapped in the border, as well as the influx of a large number of Belarusians and Belarusians fleeing the Lukashenka regime, we appeal to the government to develop common government and local government solutions as soon as possible for those who are forced to leave their homelands. As so far, as representatives of local governments, we declare our willingness to cooperate in this difficult problem. We need decisively systemic action over ad hoc political divisions and in the spirit of agreements. A broad perspective and policy should take into account, inter alia, establishing a model of co-financing for local governments to prepare places for refugees' residence, social assistance, translation, competence support for local government employees and social partners, resources for learning Polish language for adults and for school education: preparatory classes, additional hours in schools. Legal solutions will also be important: improving the procedures for legalisation of aliens' stays and greater availability of the labour market, flexibility in the required documents confirming education or professional qualifications. With all our power we want to emphasize that the development of forms of assistance for foreigners lies in the competence of the Polish government. We are therefore looking forward to an initiative that will enable the local government to participate in the proposed actions. We are open to cooperation and agreement on the division of competences in systemic solutions between government and local government. At the same time, we appeal to the central authorities for humanitarian and international conventions, which Poland is a signatory, and national law to treat asylum seekers located on the Polish-Belarusian border, as well as for a long-term migration policy geared towards integration. Signed: President of the City of Elku Tomasz Andrukiewicz, President of the City Council of Elku Włodzimierz Szelążyk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u461	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Paweł Lisiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 December 2019 the Warsaw Council, at the request of the President of Warsaw, Rafał Trzaskowski, adopted a resolution on the choice of the method of determining the charge for municipal waste management and fixing its rate. According to this resolution, people living in multi-family buildings paid 65 PLN per month from the premises, and people living in single-family houses paid 94 PLN per month to the city register. So Warsaw varied the rates depending on the type of construction. This resolution was challenged by two of Warsaw's housing cooperatives, including the Workers' Housing Cooperative Prague. According to the cooperative, the increase in charges was unlawful. In addition to the allegations that the councillors adopted a resolution without proper calculation, resulting in a significant increase in charges for residents, especially for the lonely, cooperatives questioned the differentiation of rates. The Provincial Administrative Court of the five judgments of 27 January 2021 partially annulled the contested resolutions. In his view, the legislator decided that a single rate should be adopted when calculating household waste charges. Of course, the authorities of Warsaw filed a cassation complaint with the Supreme Administrative Court. Today, the NSA has dismissed a complaint from the M.S. Warsaw. The Court of First Instance held that, in its legal capacity as of February 2015, the Warsaw Council for Households could set a single rate of the trash charge. According to the NSA, it is therefore difficult to consider that more than one rate can be set. What does that mean? This may mean that there is no legal basis for collecting garbage charges, so those who have applied for them may apply for reimbursement. And it turns out that the Warsaw people paid to the city budget for these charges about PLN 900 million per year. This could mean very serious financial problems in Warsaw. But that's not the end of it, because six housing cooperatives, one community, two individuals, as well as the prosecutor's office sued the last increase in the collection fees that depend on water consumption. The Provincial Administrative Court of 8 July 2021 annulled the provisions on the basis of which the charges charged to the residents of Warsaw for municipal waste management and water consumption on immovable property were linked. If this judgment is also upheld by the NSA, it will mean that the city will have to pay back even greater amounts than those collected under the 2019 resolution to the inhabitants of Warsaw. Warsaw has many years of negligence related to waste management. The lack of a large and modern waste incineration plant, an outdated and inefficient system for the treatment of municipal waste, and a very expensive one - it is only the tip of the iceberg. Now it may turn out that charging on the basis of illegal resolutions of the Warsaw Council will turn the city's finances upside down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u463	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the National Education Day, which we are celebrating today, I would like to thank all the staff of the educational system - directors, teachers, educational staff - for training future generations, for fulfilling such an important mission. The school must teach thinking, learning the truth, and preparing to make important decisions. Unfortunately, we have less and less knowledge every day at school. But we have control over the teacher, the local government, and even the parent. Curatoria must be auxiliary, not supervisory. The school needs a warm meal for each student, English every day from the first grade of primary school. According to the report by Sedlak & Sedlak, which deals with payroll reports, in Poland the salary of the beginner's trainee teacher, depending on the voivodeship or the size of the school, is from 2800 PLN gross, i.e. minimum national, to 3149 PLN gross in the largest institutions. Contract teachers earn a little bit more because they've been earning $3,000. PLN up to PLN 3660 per month. The salary of teachers appointed, those working in Warsaw schools, starts from 3,500 PLN to 4.5 thousand. zł. High Izbo! How are we supposed to raise and shape our children when we pay our teachers the lowest national? How are we supposed to encourage young people to go to pedagogical studies when university graduates can count on the salary that anybody can get, regardless of their education and their place of work? I ignore the absurdity that teachers of trainees earning 2800 PLN gross have not received any increases since September, although from January the minimum salary will be over 3,000. zł. Since the beginning of this term, I have visited several municipalities in my constituency. In any municipality, the grant does not cover expenditure on education. None. Each self-government has to add money to education. I hope that the rulers will lean on the idea of raising salaries for educational workers, as well as increasing educational subsidies for local government units. School should teach subjects that help young people to move in this intricate and bureaucratic world. The school must offer modern subjects that give a chance to enter into an adult life. We need economics, law and ecology classes. Polish school is a need for systemic changes: firstly, a return to close cooperation with local governments, secondly, the most important, the restoration of the ethos of the teacher's profession, thirdly, the education subsidy must cover salaries, the salaries of teachers. We recently celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Swiss embassy in our country. This meeting was a good opportunity to exchange views and experiences between two nations. The important conclusion that has been made during the hourly debates and discussions is that in Switzerland, the two most prestigious and respected professions are the profession of the teacher and the profession of the farmer. The first ones take care of the future of the nation and others ensure the food security of the nation. Of course, comparing the economic and political development of Poland and Switzerland is not justified, because the Swiss did not participate in two world wars, nor did they experience the difficulties of the communist system for several decades. However, we can compare as much as possible with our southern neighbours, the Czechs. In 2020 the average monthly gross salary of teachers in the Czech Republic was over 43 000. crowns, i.e. 7800 PLN. If we consider that the average wage for our southern border was 35 thousand. crowns, or more than PLN 6300, suggest: teachers in our neighbors earn above average. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u465	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement to Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, by noon, we debated in the Sejm the government draft budget law for 2022, which is next year. It was the first reading, so the beginning of the discussion. Since I am a Member, I have sought the most important investments in Pomerania, including the most important routes for the Pomeranian province. Since I'm a member of the Infrastructure Committee, these are my field topics. However, great troubles are with the continuation of those that the inhabitants are looking for. After many years, the question of the ring road of Starogard Gdański, i.e. the national road No 22. It is rare that a transit route of the size of traffic that several thousand cars pass through the centre of such a large city. It is dangerous for children going to school, for adults, it is also about exhaust gases. This is unacceptable. In December 2020, the Committee of Investment Projects approved option 5 of the Starogard Gdansk ring road - for 3 years there were conflicts about which way to go - the option bypassing the city from the south. Four years ago, we even held a special meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure at the City Office of the President in Starogard to speed up this tour. It's going very hard somehow. In September, a tender was launched for the preparation of a programming concept which will show what the future road will look like and will be the basis for announcing the tender for implementation in the formula: design and build. The tender is to be launched in the second quarter of 2023. I wanted to ask and ask for a written reply: Is there money for this investment? If only gradually, how high is it? I'm asking for the exact details. The second important bypass is the bypass of Sztum, which is included in 100 bypasses, but only in the second quarter of 2024, i.e. after the elections. It's on national road 55. During the course of development there is a programme concept together with the variants of the course for this future bypass of Sztum. The route options were presented in September. In the future, materials for environmental decisions and construction projects will be prepared after the option has been chosen as part of the work carried out with the current designer. This case is getting awful snaily. I ask the Minister to speed up this tour and also to respond in writing to the question of how the work is done. The next bypass is Kwidzyn's bypass. For 20 years, Kwidzyn's inhabitants have been intensively seeking to build a ring road along the trail of national road 55. Already in the years 2002-2004, the General Directorate signed an agreement and then an agreement with Kwidzyn on the preparation, execution and financing of the study and conceptual works of the ring road. Thanks to this, a multi-branch concept for the construction of the ring road has been developed and 746 thousand have been spent together for this purpose. The city of Kwidzyn is one of the largest cities in Poland without a bypass and is a city which is not included in the construction program of 100 bypasses. I also ask the Minister: What about Kwidzyn's ring road, which is really needed? Malbork's perimeter. In 2006, the General Directorate commissioned the preparation of a technical and environmental study for the Malbork ring road following a track of the national road No 22. In 2007, the route of the bypass passing the city from the north had already been chosen. Since then, residents have been looking forward to building a ring road. Like Kwidzyn Malbork, he was not on the construction list of 100 bypasses despite the advanced documentation and the chosen variant, which would shorten the preparatory work related to the construction of the bypass. I'm asking you why. And when will work on Malbork's ring road finally begin? I ask the Minister (the bell) to answer questions that are important to us, for all the inhabitants of Pomerania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u467	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa closes the list of persons who have been registered to make a statement. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u468	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Several hours before the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, a protest of the Polish Chamber of Commerce of Wood Industry will begin. What's going on in this market? Let me give you some information. Wood prices in the world markets and in Poland have increased by several hundred percent in recent months. According to the industry, exports to the United States and China are primarily responsible. In addition, the industry is complaining about the new timber sales system, which was introduced by the State Forests on 22 September. The industry criticises the change in the share of wood purchased by industry on the forest-tree portal and on auctions. These are two systems under which wood can be bought in Poland. Under the new rules, the amount of wood purchased on the portal by customers with a purchase history will fall from 80 to 70% in 2022. The remaining pool is 30%. , will be placed on auctions. I don't think you need to tell anyone in this room about what's going to happen at the auction at the current demand. In recent years, 15 million m3 of wood has been exported from Poland, but it has been exported with zero VAT. Unfortunately, the Polish budget did not gain anything at all. The Member States of the European Union and European countries must act decisively and quickly to save the woodworking industry. The future of the key element of the woodworking sector and the recovery of the economy are at stake. Without the supply of raw materials, the crisis will have direct consequences for other related sectors: industry and crafts, construction, logistics, which will not be able to source materials in Europe and will depend on imports from outside Europe. There is no doubt that the crisis in the supply of wood for sawmills is as violent as ever and will only worsen. It is time to wake up and acknowledge that Polish sawmills, especially small sawmills, will be threatened with closure and liquidation in a moment if no action is taken to stop the losses that will result from what is happening at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen! What happens in the timber industry market, what happens in Polish sawmills, as I said, happens every day. Prices increase massacreously, by several hundred percent, while we prefer to sell raw wood outside Poland, where there is demand and where there are better prices, without taking care of our internal market. What must happen in order for the Polish government, the Polish State Forests, to finally take care of our internal market, for these small sawmills, which are close to forests that do not emit additional amounts of CO2 when transporting wood on our roads, highways, by crossing hundreds of kilometres to countries where it is purchased? When are we gonna wake up? We are looking at a European Union policy that talks about emission reductions, about green lungs, and we do not care at all. That is why I call on the eve of this great protest to change the policy on the sale of wood, to restrict exports mainly to countries outside the European Union, to protect the internal market more, and above all to protect Polish companies, Polish sawmills, Polish wood industry, the Polish furniture industry, which we are so proud of, as ministers have said many times from this place. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the Polish right of the state that Polish wood will go to Polish plants and Polish sawmills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u469	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u470	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today is October 14, 2021, National Education Day. Dear teachers, educators and educational staff, I offer you the best wishes of professional success, perseverance and satisfaction with the work done. Today I want to thank you for your efforts, your heart and your dedication to our children and young people. Thank you so much for all this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u471	Declaration on Tadeusz Różewicz on his 100th anniversary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The patrons of 2021 established by the Sejm are truly outstanding personalities, which is why I am glad that on the 100th anniversary of the birth of one of them - Tadeusz Różewicz, I can celebrate his memory from the speaker. The artist was not only a poet, but also a playwright, writer and prose writer. He also translated Hungarian poetry. He was born on 9 October 1921 in Radomsko. During World War II, he became a member of the National Army by calling his nickname Satyr. The cruelty of that time marked a lasting mark on his work. Różewicz was a poet of the breakthrough, which additionally changed the form of Polish poetry forever. He was decorated, among others. The Great Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. In 2000, he won the Nike Literary Award for his volume of poetry. His most outstanding work was the Charter, and his books were translated into 49 languages. Tadeusz Różewicz died in April 2014 in Wrocław. Glory to his memory.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u472	The National Education Day is a Polish feast of education and higher education, whose origin dates back to the establishment of the National Education Commission, established on the initiative of the Polish king Stanisław August Poniatowski by virtue of the resolution of the District Sejm on 14 October 1773, the National Education Commission was the world's first Ministry of Education and has overtaken similar system solutions in other countries for many years. It was active in the years 1773 and 1794. She created a modern organizational structure of education - from elementary schools to junior high schools to universities. The teaching was conducted in Polish. National Education Day is an opportunity to reward outstanding teachers and educational staff. On this day, teachers are given crosses of merit, medals of the National Education Commission and awards for their educational achievements. On the occasion of the National Education Day, honorary titles of the professor of education are also given. This celebration reminds us of the value of education in life. The work of a educator is one of the difficult but at the same time the most beautiful and honorable tasks. It requires not only skill but also special talent and commitment. It is a great responsibility, continuous improvement of skills and competences and work on a living organism. Its fruitage often produces tangible results only after years. It is up to you, dear teachers, that the future of the next generation depends on you. You have an influence not only on what is here and now, but also on what Poland will look like in the coming years. The authority you build among your students and the talents you discover in them are the foundations of our country's development. That is why so often invoked the sentence by the great chancellor of the Crown Jan Zamoyski - such things will be common, which their young people hide - remains still valid despite the passage of time. The words of the long-term rector and professor of the Catholic University of Lublin also remain timeless. Mieczysław Albert Krąpc: So education and education in schools today must lead to a person knowing who he is, what his origin is, what his destiny is, what heritage of European and Polish culture he is supposed to live everyday, how to live with others, and especially with older people. Schools must be assigned to the kind of education that raises intelligently a human person living in a family, national society, so that he can become the person awaiting the final fulfillment of eternal life, which is included in each of us. On this festive day, I make the most heartfelt wishes for health, well-being in my personal life and good days in my school year. In a special way, I congratulate all the distinguished, decorated and honored. I cannot refuse to give special congratulations to teachers from the Italian district who received the awards of the Minister of National Education, and they are Mr Bożena Kaczor and Magdalena Kuterasińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u473	Statement on World Day of Sight. In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the World Day of Sight mentioned annually in October, which aims to focus the world's attention on the problem of blindness and visual disturbances. This day's celebrations are coordinated by the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) under the VISION 2020 initiative. This year's campaign focuses on the theme #LoveYourEyes, because it is claimed that almost every human in the world will experience a problem of eye health in their lifetime. As part of World Vision Day, measures are being taken to raise public awareness of the subject matter and the issue at the same time. These problems pose a huge difficulty in the context of public health worldwide, both in developed and developing countries. It is estimated that some 285 million people in the world belong to visually impaired or blind people. According to the World Health Organization, prevention and proper therapy can prevent visual impairment in 80% of patients. First of all, systematic eye examination is recommended. Young people with no visual impairment can do it even once every few years. On the other hand, people aged 40 and over should have their eyes examined at least once a year. The examination of vision is so helpful that it also allows you to know the general health of the patient, among others. diabetes mellitus, hypertension, atherosclerosis, etc. Through my statement, I would also like to encourage regular research and appropriate prevention, because, as various studies have shown, people are afraid of losing sight more than losing any other organ of the sense, but unfortunately few people have cared for their eyes from an early age.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u474	Statement on the purchase of Maria Skłodowska-Curie's house in France. A few months ago, the media reported that the house of Maria Skłodowska-Curie in France was put up for sale. Property located in Saint-Rémy-l? s-Chevreuse aroused great interest among investors, politicians and diplomats. Some time ago, the Polish government commissioned measures to purchase the residence of a well-known Nobel Prize winner. It was argued then that this would be a great way to promote Poland and our achievements abroad. One of the ideas was, for example. creation of a museum in the house. Please indicate at what stage are the works on the purchase of the French residence of Maria Skłodowska-Curie.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u475	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has been responsible for the Polish economy and the state for 6 years. He has been the President of the National Bank of Poland since 2016 and has been associated with Jarosław Kaczyński Adam Glapiński. One of the results of the management of the state by the United Right camp is that Poles and Poles know the term "inflation" (it is worth adding that it is a decrease in the purchasing power of money) not only from lectures at economic universities, but from everyday life, because each of us is shopping. Every time we visit a grocery store or a gas station, we pay for the country's economic policy. As our accounts are affected by pay for work, we are increasingly making difficult choices, which we can afford this time, and what consumer needs will remain unsatisfied. Galloping fuel prices, already reaching 6 PLN for 1 l, combined with poor access to collective transport, especially in small cities, are further deepening the exclusion of transport. Jarosław Kaczyński in the 2011 election spot said: More than half of the fuel price is tax. The government can reduce them. I'd lower my excise duty, which would lower the price of gasoline, but that takes courage and responsibility. After 6 years of rule of law and justice, we see that courage is reserved only for the scale of scams for public money, and responsibility is a completely foreign term. The result of the policies of the United Right is fuel prices which have increased by almost 29% compared to last year. In 2020 the price of 1 l of unleaded petrol did not exceed 4.5 PLN, and today at some stations it is possible to reach prices above 6 PLN for 1 l. High fuel prices translate directly into higher prices for other products and thus apply to each and every one of us. This is a process in which, despite the economic downturn, prices of products continue to rise. Many companies have fallen because of irresponsible and chaotic government decisions. Walking through the streets of Polish cities, we see the scale of this tragedy - these are empty sites, premises for rent, which have been in our public space for good. Galloping food prices (4.4% increase) compared to the previous year) do not intend to slow down. Talking about sustainable inflation next year is a fairy tale. Every person oriented in economic and business realities knows very well that manufacturers are currently having talks with commercial networks about contracts for next year, and uncertainty and rising fuel prices, i.e. operating costs in many sectors, will result in further increases in service and product prices. Many products had guaranteed price levels only until the end of 2021. Today most companies start their negotiations with a level of 25 or even 30% higher prices for your products and services. We will all pay for government policy and it will be the fault of the United Rights policy, because you do not want to convince people that you cannot afford to reduce, for example, excise duty, and less than PLN 3 billion for the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, you find in a square, and in the CPK management company you give your people 300 excellently paid jobs. It's pathology. Supply at new prices will begin to appear on the market as early as 2022. Then the Polish people and Poles will feel even more the effects of your policy and it will be hard facts, which you will not be able to sober up propaganda on the regime's television. Even your beloved Tadeusz Rydzyk's generously subsidised TV Trwam managed to give facts about fuel prices. We heard the words on one of the information services there: At the beginning of 2012, Jarosław Kaczyński was a company with the idea of reducing the excise duty on fuel. Less than 10 years ago fuel prices reached the psychological limit of 6 PLN, the law and Justice blamed the coalition of PSL at that time. But today it is the Law and Justice that is in power and prices again today reach the limit of 6 PLN for 1 l. However, so far none of the representatives of the Law and Justice have talked about a possible reduction in excise duty. You can only hope that the PiS politicians will consistently approach their words from 10 years ago and at least until the global fuel markets are stable, they will decide to reduce excise duty. Whether it is a desire to show real reality, or rather just a shot in the nose for your president, to remind you who has power and needs another financial injection - I do not know, but today I call on parliamentarians and parliamentarians of the PiS to make a bold and responsible decision to reduce the taxes included in fuel prices, as promised in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u476	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In October we celebrated the National Medical Rescue Day for the 15th time. It is extremely important, on the occasion of the annual holiday, to draw attention to the needs and problems faced by this group of health professionals. Especially now that there is a national protest of medical rescuers. The Pandemic COVID-19 has shown how medical rescue workers often work under difficult conditions in life-threatening situations. Therefore, this time should be a legitimate argument to increase the comfort of rescue workers' work, their wages and legal protection. From this point of view, I would like to express my sincere regret at the attitude of the health department in this situation. The lack of a systematic approach to the remuneration of medical rescuers gives rise to legitimate concerns and uncertainty about the further fate of this professional group. I would like to appeal to Minister Niedzielski and the Prime Minister to place more emphasis on solving the medical emergency problems in our country. However, this cannot be done without a dialogue with the designated professional group and, above all, an increase in the funding of the system. It is impossible not to mention medical rescuers and all other employees of the State Medical Rescue System. To address all of you directly, I would like to thank you very much for your commitment and the effort you are putting into fulfilling your obligations under the service provided to the general public. I wish you perseverance, success and satisfaction in fulfilling your daily duties and every success. Thank you for your commitment to helping those affected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Pomeranian Academy in Słupsk is a university with more than five decades of tradition. The last few years have been a dynamic development of the academy. The university is constantly expanding its teaching offer with new directions such as law, obstetrics, IT and logistics, as well as laboratories and teaching rooms. Thanks to government support, the region is gaining an academic centre that focuses on modern and practical education and improves its academic mission. Aware of the need for continuous university development and supporting the aspirations and aspirations of the academy, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki does not spare money for the development of higher education. The Pomorska Academy in Słupsk thanks to government support has the opportunity to implement numerous investments. One of them is to transform the historic military cafeteria into a modern auditorium. New multifunctional rooms can accommodate up to 400 people. The modern auditorium will become the heart of meetings of the Pomeranian Academy in Słupsk, which will host not only classes, but also conferences, theatre performances or concerts. The Pomeranian Academy also implements the project Mon. The Active Academy, which was founded on my initiative. The project is planned for the period 2020 to 2024. Within the framework of government grants, the university receives annual support of PLN 2 million for the promotion of science, culture and sport. Thanks to the involvement of sports clubs, the inhabitants of the region can participate in additional activities. Children, young people and students can spend their time actively in health, sports, artistic, scientific and cultural activities. This is an extremely important undertaking for me. I am pleased that Pomerania's development initiatives will also serve the development of sports clubs, which form an integral part of pole traditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u478	Despite the passing years and many changes in the pages of history only now that the last witnesses are gone, their message about people and events that they have shared with their loved ones for decades. The forests of Roztocz and the Solska Forest in Lublin are sanctified by the blood of many heroes of World War II. It was in 1944 that the greatest guerrilla battle of the Second World War took place in Poland. One of her commanders was Lor. Konrad Bartoszewski, a participant in the 1939 war, the Zamość Uprising and the Storm. Apart from the courage he deserved by fighting under the Osuchs, he also became famous for breaking up the UB and NKVD prison in Biłgoraj and extensive conspiracy activities. September 26th this year In Józefów there was a patriotic-religious ceremony, during which a monument commemorating the soldiers of the Home Army, the Armed Forces Delegation and the Freedom and Independence Association fighting on the land of Józef was unveiled. These are nearly 500 names of people who fought in the structures of the Polish Underground State. The list was based on historical literature, materials remaining in the resources of the district circle in Józefów, memories of the last witnesses of those events and the resources of the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance in Lublin. The work lasted for several years. The final list of people fighting in the structures of the Polish Underground State, whose names were placed on the board, was verified and accepted by the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. It should be noted that the author of the preliminary project to commemorate heroes fighting in the Józef and Bilgoraj lands was the president of the Józefian circle of the World Association of Soldiers of the National Army Andrzej Wojtyło, and the final project of commemoration is the result of the work of the granddaughter Konrad Bartoszewski ps. The Vortex of Sylvia Bartoszewska. During the ceremony a posthumous decoration was made with the rank of the captain of the sleep. d.o.b. Konrad Bartoszewski ps. A vortex. The nomination was received by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Kaminski by his grandson Wira. d.o.b. Paweł Bartoszewski, who presided over the Holy Mass in behalf of the AK soldiers. The proper setting of the ceremony, in accordance with the Military Ceremony of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, took care of 25. Zamość Light Infantry Battalion im. Major. Stanisława Prusa ps. Adam. The culmination of the event was the solemn appeal of the fallen, the salvai of honor and the laying of flowers by the assembled delegations. The date of unveiling the monument is not accidental - 27 September this year. the 82nd anniversary of the creation of the Service of the Victory of Poland, the organization which gave birth to the Polish Underground State, the secret structure of the Polish state that existed during the Second World War, under the government of the Republic of Poland in exile. The monument is a tribute to the memory of those who fought with dedication for free Poland, for the independence of our nation. It is also intended to remind the next generation of their heroism and value of words: "Homeland," "Freedom" and "Independence." Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! One of the most important challenges facing us is the climate crisis. It's a subject that often appears in our conversations across the country. It is vain to look for deeper reflections on this subject in the statements of representatives of political parties who are fighting against each other. Meanwhile, this is probably the first challenge that applies to every inhabitant of our planet. Also us, Poles. Increasingly higher annual average temperatures, hurricanes, droughts and floods bring chaos into our lives and cause economic losses. This climate disaster is going to get worse if we don't change anything. Today we feel it, among others. in the form of high electricity bills, because our energy system is based on coal. However, the next generation will face a much greater challenge of life in a world destroyed by the reckless use of fossil fuels. We also need to remember almost 50,000. The people of our country who die too early from contaminated air. It's like the whole county town is disappearing. We've got to stop this. We need to start working today, with us in mind and another generation in mind. We must remember that our actions today will only be effective in a few years. If we do not act today, we will certainly not stop this disaster, especially since the unofficial preliminary conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel report. Climate change (IPCC) is devastating. According to experts, changes have gone too far, they will have fatal consequences for the planet and humans, for us, our children and grandchildren. That's not what old parties focused on fighting each other are thinking. Meanwhile, it is a kind of red card for this old policy. Today Poland needs change and fresh air. Therefore, instead of fighting against the old parties on the invectives, the movement of Poland 2050 prepared a concrete plan for achieving climate neutrality. We offer three milestones in it. By 2030, we'll reach 45%. greenhouse gas reductions and 40% electricity from RES. By 2040 we will move away from coal, with a major leap taking place earlier, and for the last 5 years the presence of coal in energy will be minimal. Until 2050. Poland will achieve climate neutrality. Of course, the plan contains a number of detailed solutions for the protection of companies, workers, communities, regions and the economy. They are published in a program that we called Poland on the green trail. At the same time, it is worth remembering that energy transformation is an opportunity for all of us for a completely different, better Poland. This investment process over the years will allow for positive changes in many areas of life. Thanks to investments in green energy and the new economy Poland will be able to compete with other economies. Thanks to a responsible approach, the costs of transformation will be distributed as equally as possible and the weak will not remain alone. We will turn on the green light for distributed energy, so that energy costs will not rise as dramatically as they have been for the last five years. We will also focus on low-carbon, universal public transport tailored to the needs of the community. This concrete plan for the generation, not the term of office, is also the result of our meetings and talks throughout Poland. That is why I am already inviting you to the next meetings and talks, including in the Members' on-call, about what we can do together for us and for future generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 October 2021 the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the parish of Puławy took place in Puławy. Our Lady of the Rosary. The history of the temple building dates back to 1880, when the Orthodox church was erected for the Russian army, in the years 1909-1921 pw. Holy Trinity. After World War I, the temple was dedicated to the Roman Catholic Church and dedicated to the garrison church. From October 25, 1921 precisely by means of soldiers 2. The Kaniowski Shipper Regiment became the Catholic Church of St. The resurrection of the Lord. In turn since about 1953 it is the church of St. Our Lady of the Rosary. The solemn Mass of St. The metropolitan Lublin archbishop Stanisław Budzik sent. It was attended by pastors of the parish of St. Our Lady of the Rosary, priests of the decanate and priests associated with the parish, among others. Fr. Czesław Bielec, former parish priest, and Fr. Krzysztof Krakowiak, Vice-Dean. There were representatives of Parliament, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, representatives of the local authorities of Puławy and uniformed services: military and police. Those gathered in prayer were welcomed by Fr. Canonnik Piotr Trela, parish priest of the parish Our Lady of the Rosary. He emphasized that the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the parish was connected with the canonical visitation and parish indulgence. Archbishop Stanisław Budzik gave greeting and blessing to the parishioners and pastors of the Holy Father Francis, with whom he met with the auxiliary bishops of the Archdiocese of Lublin as part of the visit ad lima apostolorum. In homily he presented theology of the Rosary prayer. He pointed out that it was a prayer through which those who refused to confess faith in the Holy Trinity and in all the truths contained in the Apostolic Book. Our Father's prayer makes those who pray realize that Jesus wants to lead everyone to union with the Father, to intimacy with him. In the heart of the prayer of the Rosary, ecclesial and Marian, there is Jesus. By contemplating the work of Jesus Christ and Mary, we like Him, and the image of the Crucified One opens and closes the prayer of the Rosary. On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the parish of St. Our Lady of the Rosary in Puławy to the priests led by the priest of the parish priest and the whole community of the parish congratulations and wishes of many of God's graces and every prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-14-sejm-39-2.u481	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 39th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 40th session of the Sejm, convened on 28 and 29 October 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. And have a quiet night. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 20]]
