ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u1	I kindly inform you that today will be the meeting of the following Commission: - Health-- hour. 9.30 a.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.45, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12.15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of items 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda: I would very kindly ask the social advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr.Paweł Mucha, to present the justification for the draft laws contained in prints No. 1760 and 1761. Minister, you're welcome. The microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u3	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was honored to present on behalf of President Andrzej Duda a draft law on the courts of peace and a draft law - Provisions introducing the law on the courts of peace. For several years there has been a discussion in Poland about the need and direction of changes in the justice system. The changes made in recent years do not only cover organisational issues which are most visible in the public debate. Changes are also made to the procedural rules determining the procedure before courts to streamline and speed up proceedings. Despite this, the work of the courts continues to be more critical than with approval. According to a broad study by CBOS on this issue, the percentage of Poles who, based on their own experience, expressed disapproval of the activities of the courts was 50%. Half of the respondents therefore negatively assessed the functioning of the justice system in Poland, including one in eight claims that it works very badly. Only slightly more than 1/3 of the respondents had a positive assessment. According to recent data, judicial activity is positive 29% and negative 41% respondents. The biggest problems of the justice system in Poland are, first of all, a lack of trust in the justice system, or at least a lack of trust to the extent that we expect. The second is the tardiness of the justice system, which is a prolonged, complex procedure, which citizens are very often unable to understand and which leads to a deeper sense of injustice. This is not always due to matters that are dealt with by the court, but to the way the justice system works. Chronicity is partly due to the number of cases, but also partly to the model and procedure adopted. Legal procedures still remain incomprehensible to ordinary citizens, and long-term expectation of resolving a case, judgment or resolution does not help to build a sense of justice. This is one of the major problems affecting not only the functioning of judicial structures, but also the overall assessment of the efficiency of the state. According to many lawyers and representatives of state institutions, we need urgent action to relieve the burden of the courts, reduce the waiting time for a decision and rebureaucratize the justice process. In March of this year, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda created a special team headed by Professor Piotr Kruszyński at the President's Office and composed of representatives of, among others, the President's Office. Minister of Justice, Supreme Court, representatives of Kukiz.15, persons who have both scientific and procedural experience, advisors and experts. The aim of this team was to identify the needs of justice in terms of the use of the institutions of judges of peace. The idea of bringing peace judges back to justice in Poland is not entirely new, because the discussion on the use of this institution in response to the contemporary problems of the judiciary has been going on for several years. In Polish lands, peace judges functioned already in the 19th century, in the beginning of the 20th century, as well as in the reborn Republic. This institution was abolished in 1938. In calling for the introduction of a judge of peace, the experience of common law countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, but also of the countries in which the continental system applies, i.e. Switzerland and Belgium. In each of these countries, the position of the judges of peace varies. Historically, the judges of peace have been introduced to deformise and speed up the trial. One way to do this is to reduce the cognition of courts, that is to say, to hand over some of the cases that are currently being handled by common courts, created on the basis of the regulation proposed by your President to the courts of peace; the other is to introduce simplified procedures in the case of peace courts, which, because of the nature of the cases that will be settled in the courts of peace, will result in cases being dealt with thoroughly, but also quickly. Such solutions include draft laws, which I have the honour of presenting to the High House today. The legislative initiative of the President of the Republic consists of two laws: the Peace Courts Act and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law on Peace Courts. What do they contain? First of all, the establishment of courts of peace as the lowest-level courts within the universal courts, which will relieve regional courts. The actions taken by the courts of peace will be within the limits of justice. Peace courts will rule on matters of minor importance, only criminal and civil matters. Where will the judges of peace come from? They will be interested in becoming judges of peace and who will comply with the applicable legal conditions. In the first place, the National Judicial Council will consider applications for compliance with the statutory criteria and then all those who, in the opinion of the National Judicial Council, will comply with these conditions and be able to become judges of peace, will be subject to electoral review. There will be elections in which the local community will ultimately decide who will be the judge of peace. This will increase the social factor's participation in the creation of justice. Elections will be universal and direct, voting process - secret. The elected persons will be presented by the National Judicial Council to the President of the Republic, who will appoint the President of the Republic to serve as a Judge of Peace. Undoubtedly, a peace magistrate on the basis of his election mandate has the opportunity to enjoy great authority and to inspire the confidence of the local community. Importantly, judges of peace will be created the necessary conditions to preserve their independence, similar to those accorded by the Constitution and the Law to professional judges. At this point it should be emphasized that, despite the innovative nature of the proposed regulation, it was designed in a manner compatible with the current system requirements defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 24 October 2007 in Case SK 7/06 pointed out that the exercise of justice could be entrusted to persons whose legal status refers only to the constitutional position of a judge. However, derogations are permitted if two cumulative conditions are met. Firstly, exceptions must be justified by a constitutionally legitimate objective and fall within the limits of this objective. The institution entrusting persons who are not judges with judicial functions should primarily serve to improve the exercise of the subjective right laid down in Article. 45 constitutions, i.e. the right to court. Secondly, all material conditions on which impartiality, independence and independence of the court depend must be met. In other words, regardless of the name of the post of office, the status of the person entrusted with judicial duties must correspond to the model independence resulting from the constitutional rules on the status of judge. For this reason, the project brings the status of a judge of peace as close as possible to the status of judge in respect of the rights granted, but also to responsibilities. A candidate for a judge of peace will be obliged to have legal training and at least three years' experience in carrying out activities requiring legal knowledge directly related to the provision of legal assistance, application or law-making, i.e. legislative activities. The Peace Judge will have to be 29 at the latest on the day of the election and not more than 70 years old on the day on which he becomes a Peace Judge. Peacekeepers will remain in office for a period of six years. The draft provides for only one term of office for the judge of the room, but if the judge of the room is in office for less than four years following the adoption of a mandate or the election of supplementary elections during the term of office of the magistrate of the room, he may exceptionally be elected for the second term of office. The proposed regulation seeks to guarantee the judges of peace immunity. In addition, peace judges, like professional judges, will not be able to engage in additional employment, be a member of a political party, a trade union or engage in public activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts or the independence of the judges of peace. The remuneration of peace judges will be set at the level of the judicial assailant's salary, which, I will remind you, is 80% the basic salary of the judge of the regional court. Not only the judges of peace, but also the courts of peace will function as cadence. The term of office of all the courts of peace will be shared and will last for 6 years. The starting date of the new term of office of the Courts of Peace, no later than 2 months after the elections of the Judges of Peace, shall be determined by the Minister of Justice, after consulting the National Judicial Council, by means of a regulation. The courts of peace shall be bound organisationally with the regional courts by, as a general rule, the identity of the seat and area of jurisdiction of the court of peace and of the regional court, the director and the President of the court of peace, which shall be the director and the President of the regional court respectively. The district court will consider appeals against decisions of the court of peace, i.e. the constitutional principle of duality, of course, will be preserved and maintained. The project also contains similar rules to those of the other common courts for the financing of peace courts and the hiring of assistants to the judge and to officials and judicial staff. In civil matters, it will be the jurisdiction of the Peace Courts to request a settlement, alimony and be recognised in a simplified procedure if the special provision so provides. The jurisdiction of the courts of peace in criminal matters has been transferred to the offences set out in the Penal Code. Here I can give you an example title. driving a vehicle in an intoxicated state or under the influence of an intoxicating agent, failing to comply with an order to stop a mechanical vehicle or to drive a vehicle after withdrawal of rights, after prohibition, disturbing the household myrtle, drinking the minor, assault due to xenophobia, racism or religious intolerance, interfering with the conduct of the assembly, the use of another person's document, including offences, if the value of the property being the subject of the offence or the harm caused does not exceed 10,000. zł. In view of this criterion, it would be such a crime as theft or burglary, but in the case of lesser importance, embezzlement, fraud in the event of less weight, destruction of movable property or intentional peril. In cases of misdemeanor, it will be a rule to rule by the courts of peace. These matters will actually be in the jurisdiction of the courts of peace in their entirety. As you can see, small cases with little complexity have been handed over to the cognition of the courts of peace. Their consideration by the judges of peace will relieve other common courts and allow them to concentrate on identifying more complex cases. We will therefore achieve the effect of speeding up the investigation of cases not only in those cases which will be addressed directly in the simplified procedure to the court of peace, but also in all those other cases where the capacity to process can be directed to the investigation and the taking of those cases which today are awaiting investigation. The draft law - Provisions introducing the Peace Courts Act contains provisions aimed at introducing in the various laws the amendments necessary for the start of the functioning of the Peace Courts. It was accepted that the Peace Courts Act would enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of 3 months from the date of the announcement. In turn, the entry into force of the law - Rules implementing the Peace Courts Act were divided into sufficiently long stages. As soon as possible, the provisions allowing for the activity of a proxy for the creation of the courts of peace will enter into force. The purpose of the proxy will be to draw up a plan for the division of the territory of the Republic into electoral districts, to prepare plans for the establishment of peace courts and to take steps to ensure that the courts have adequate technical and organisational conditions. The changes concerning the proceedings before the courts of peace and the granting of special powers to former judges of peace, i.e., were most delayed at the time of the entry into force of the amendments, i.e. possibility to take professional legal examinations without having to take the application. It is in this project that we have also predicted - that it may be such a way that after the end of the term of office and the performance of the function of a judge of peace it will be a simplification, an opportunity, without having to do the application, to enter other legal professions. After all, we are talking about people who will already have a lot of experience and who have previously had this three-year experience, and who have met the requirement of legal education. Extending public participation in the exercise of justice within the constitutional framework of Article. 175 and Article 5 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 182 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is a major political, technical and financial challenge, but in the end it will prove beneficial for society. The educational value of such a solution, the sense of shared responsibility for justice and the sense of justice given to other citizens by citizens - non-professional judges - are invaluable. The aim of the establishment of peace courts is to strengthen the judiciary so that citizens identify with the institutions of justice and have confidence in judges. I ask the High Sejm, on behalf of the President, to work on the proposed laws and a fair, substantive discussion, which will result in a law that responds to the problems of justice, so that it becomes closer to citizens to regain public acceptance and that courts in Poland are considered fair. The presentation of draft laws to the High House is seen by the President of the Republic of Poland as a further step towards achieving this goal. In view of these circumstances, I would like to ask for the support of the High Chamber presented (the bell) of draft laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha to present the justification for the draft law contained in print 1378. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u5	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, it is my pleasure and honour to present the justification of the project under print No. 1378, which is to introduce a new institution, so-called, into the courts of the general public. a citizen's trade magistrate. Talking about the fact that the situation in the justice system, especially in the judiciary, is not good, is truism. We've all seen a growing organisational collapse for several years. But what's worse, we're seeing a decline in trust in justice in general. These aren't the thesis we take out of the hat. These are thesis confirmed by hard data published by the Ministry of Justice. These are thesis resulting from cyclical tests carried out, in particular by CBOS. The bill presented by us aims to address these two fatal phenomena, namely the organisational collapse, the natural consequence of which is the chronicity of proceedings, and the falling confidence in the justice system. But the problems are also, let's say, smaller organizational problems, which are raised in doctrine, which are raised by practitioners. On the one hand, there is the issue of the reform of the institutions of the jury, which is, as we know, the consequence of the constitutional provisions contained in the article. 182, which talks about the involvement of citizens in the administration of justice. We know that the juror's institution, which is generally good, needs adjustments, needs changes, as I will also talk about in my speech. We have also been hearing for a long time about problems, in particular in economic proceedings where entrepreneurs are parties, against the participation of experts whose special knowledge in proceedings, sometimes necessary, is inexorably prolonging these proceedings. Therefore, this draft law aims to respond to the needs arising from all these negative phenomena that I have just mentioned. Chronicity unfortunately becomes such a demon of the Polish justice system, in particular of the judiciary. I'm talking about business here. When we reach the statistics, we will notice that in 2011 the average period of waiting for a decision in the district courts in the economic departments was 3.6 months. By 2020, it has been 8 months. The growth is enormous, but the damage is borne by the entrepreneurs, the parties to the proceedings. It is similar in the proceedings pending before the district courts. This naturally translates, as I said at the outset, into a decline in trust in justice. Why am I talking about this? This is so important that even the best judgment that has been given by the best judge will not have a chance of success if the parties to the proceedings, the citizens, do not trust this judge, will not trust that the sentence that was handed down in the sitting room, is a just sentence, that it should be accepted and simply realized. If he is questioned, if the judge's knowledge, his expertise, is questioned, then such a justice system will not comply with its fundamental principle, namely the exercise of this justice. The bill on civil commercial judges is not new either. Similar institutions operate in European countries. The project we are presenting is partly derived from the Austrian model, which is directly using the term of commercial judges. The whole trend in the 21st century with regard to the reform of justice is aimed at ensuring that the so-called. a social factor, to put it simply that citizens have a slightly greater impact on what is happening in the courtroom than has been the case so far, so that they are not only parties, participants in the proceedings, witnesses, but also to be the voice, sometimes the voice of reason, sometimes the voice of experience, so necessary to rule on practically all matters. The Constitution therefore explicitly states that the citizens of the Republic of Poland participate in this justice system. This draft law, which is important, which is fully within the framework of our basic law, will improve all these sensitive areas. Let me make a brief presentation of his most important assumptions. The commercial judge will be such an institution a little between the professional judge and the jury in the model we know in the previously functioning judiciary. It is a new institution, dedicated in particular to economic progress, because this is the answer to one of the demands which appears in doctrine, in case law, namely the postulate of professionalization of jurors. We are often faced with the fact that the jury in the courtroom does not have such legal or professional knowledge in the cases in which they participate. The judge has legal knowledge, he knows procedures, he knows matter, but he lacks that knowledge. It is suggested that there should be such professionalisation of jurors that they should be trained in those areas where they rule: criminal law, offences, family matters. We accept this economic model, because here it may not be easy, but in such a tangible way it is possible to introduce this professionalization of the social factor. So the commercial judge must be the person who has so far conducted an economic activity, which was an entrepreneur - I will also talk about the requirements in a moment - who participated in the boards of commercial companies, i.e. has this professional knowledge, he has, in colloquially speaking, this spirit of matters that are taking place before the economic departments. This is the answer to the growing trends in the 21st century in the reform of the justice system. Because if entrepreneurs who refer their dispute to court - and we know that entrepreneurs go to court in the last resort, they make settlement attempts, whether in the form of arbitration or before other institutions, or in such a normal, ordinary, daily life - if they direct their dispute over often large, serious matters, they need to have confidence, they need to have understanding in the formation of the court. And they will see that next to the professional judge who took care of the correctness of procedures, which will know the matter well, the obligations, the Code of Commercial Companies, there will still be entrepreneurs who will provide the spirit of this settlement, who will direct this judge and his experience of life to disputes that concern Polish entrepreneurs. The commercial judge, as I mentioned, must be an entrepreneur, but that's not the only requirement. The introduction of this institution into justice is also intended to be a form of some activation of the local community. We know very well how important our daily local community is. Local government reform has succeeded, this is one of the greatest successes of the transformation of the last 30 years, because it is people elected locally, who enjoy local authority, who also generate great trust. When we sit them in the courtroom as an advisory voice, we immediately make confidence in the justice system more likely to grow. This is extremely important: this must be the local authorities. We propose the introduction of an institution of a commercial judge to the decisions taken in the district courts at first instance, because by law the most complex cases are settled because of the highest value of the dispute. Therefore, it seems natural to start with the most important things by starting this type of reform. As far as the court is concerned, commercial judges will be brought closer to the professional judge, and they will obviously not be able to chair the hearing and will not be able, excuse me, to chair the hearing. [[Arek, take it easy.]] But I am very calm, I am more tired, sir, three children are doing their job. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 of the draft law are listed formal requirements for commercial judges. I'm not gonna go into the details here, 'cause anyone can get to know it. Of course, age, civic criteria are mentioned, as well as what I said earlier - primarily as an entrepreneur or a participant in commercial companies' bodies. What is important is that the upper limit of age is also introduced in the wake of decisions... [[Voice from the room: Please, water, maybe it'll come in handy.]] I'm fine, thank you. I had a quieter night last night. ...the upper limit of age, modelled on the jury decisions described in the Universal Courts Act. The choice of commercial judges is essential. The jury, as we know very well, is elected by the municipal council to the courts at all levels. We propose that the judges of trade be elected by the sejmies of the voivodships, by the councillors of these seymists, i.e. by local government officials who enjoy great trust, have a strong, direct legitimacy from their inhabitants. The councilmen of the Sejm would be responsible for conducting a transparent electoral process. We want this choice not to take place behind closed doors, but to be transparent and not just among locals, often politicians. It would therefore be an obligation to set up a committee, which would also include at least one district court judge, whose composition would be supported by a commercial judge, but also by representatives of non-governmental organisations whose statutory objective is to contribute to economic development. This will ensure not only greater transparency, but also a greater mandate of trust in the chosen commercial judge. Unlike a professional judge, this choice would not be lifeless. The choice would be a five-year term, which also shows that it is an institution different from the judge's professional institution, although the name may suggest otherwise. But as I said at the outset, they are not judges of the profession of strict sense, of which the constitution is a constitution. The Act provides for the possibility of renunciation of the mandate of a commercial judge, but also, what is important, of removing him from his post if he were to undermine the dignity of that institution. This is covered with certain fuses. First of all, most importantly, such an appeal could take place not at the initiative of the councillors themselves, but only at the request of the President of the District Court, after the College of the Court has given its opinion, so that this decision is not indeed arbitrary. And most importantly, in order for this model of a civil commercial judge to actually work out, these judges need to be guaranteed some independence and independence in judgment. The draft law also makes clear these issues, in particular that the judges of commerce cannot be members of political parties or carry out other activities (the bell) of which... Mr. Marshal, if I could just have a minute, okay? There you go. Trade magistrates must not engage in any other activity which cannot be reconciled with the exercise of that function. Questions and doubts arise for those who have read the project: and what if entrepreneurs use their position to extract certain information from other entrepreneurs who are in dispute before the court. After all, they can easily learn about the secret of the company, other important elements. And here, too, there is a guarantee clause based on the records relating to a professional judge that those citizens' commercial judges would be kept completely secret as regards the information obtained in connection with the function exercised, moreover, from this mystery, like professional judges, they could not be released. So everything they find out in the courtroom must remain in the courtroom. I do not see a greater threat in this regard, because we also know the well-functioning economic arbitration in Poland, in which also entrepreneurs settle disputes among others entrepreneurs and there is no such abuse. Ba, there is much more confidence in such decisions than there is in common courts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to appeal to the Members of the Commission to proceed in peace with this bill. As a parliamentary club, we are aware that certain solutions may seem dangerous when it comes to guarantees of settlement, because it is a new institution in Poland... Mr President, my love for Members is enormous, but you have already said three minutes too long. Okay, Marshal, last sentence. You're welcome. I would like to call for us to proceed calmly on this project, because if there are any doubts whether constitutional or practical, we are, of course, inclined to accept some changes and amendments. Nevertheless, let us have the courage to change the justice system courageously, but not as often as we hear in this House in a crazy way. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u6	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the justification for the bill contained in print 1762. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u7	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! I was honored to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives a project on the establishment of the courts of peace. For a start, maybe a few words about the circumstances of the project. This is not just a project written among our fellow Members or experts, this project was born on the way of far-reaching public consultation. Courtesy of Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski several times here, in Parliament, there were meetings of the round table concerning precisely the needs and places where these changes in the judiciary are most needed. In this consultation, too, as I would like to stress very much, there have been organisations that have been involved in lawsuits, those who have tried forcelessly over the last many years to fight for justice, but this justice system and the judiciary have not fully allowed them to do so. Thanks to these many hours of discussions, it has just been pointed out that the restoration to the judiciary of the Polish institutions of the courts of peace and judges of peace is one of the most expected precisely by people who have collided with many difficulties, with many barriers in terms of accessibility when it comes to fighting for justice before the Polish courts. This has created a bill that I have the pleasure of presenting. This project originates, just as it fell from the mouth of both previous speakers presenting very similar projects, firstly, precisely because of a lack of trust, from a certain lack of power as regards access to justice, to courts, secondly, from phenomena we observe with extraordinary concern, i.e. extending, and actually in every category of cases, longer deadlines for dealing with cases before Polish courts. Many of those who have been called upon by me to be victims of justice have today very much trusted the rulers who are responsible for the justice system. Many believed in the slogan that the justice system would be reformed, changed that it would be more efficient, more accessible. Today they are extremely bitter because it turns out that actually nothing is left of these announcements. It is much, much worse and much, much more expensive, because we cannot ignore the fact that judicial fees have increased. It seems like a little when today, looking at projects that have been submitted by various clubs, but also involving the President in all this, we have a similar prescription for improvement, to change the state of things that are in the institutions of the courts of peace. To proceed to the project, which I am pleased to present, I will say that it is intended that the courts of peace relieve the common court by taking over a large proportion of the cases belonging to the jurisdiction of the regional courts, thus ensuring faster and more efficient judicial proceedings. The data clearly indicate that the greatest judicial failure is at the level of the regional courts. The length of proceedings before regional courts is growing every year. While the hearing dates were set with a three-month waiting period in 2015, the waiting time for the hearing has now increased more than twice. Peace courts are present in many European countries, often with long-standing democratic traditions, among others. in the UK, but also in Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal or Malta. The proposed solution assumes the establishment of peace courts in all powiats, cities on the rights of the county and districts of the municipality of Warsaw. It is proposed that the courts of peace - in addition to regional, district and appeal courts - be the fourth element of the general court, which is the lowest in this hierarchy. It is proposed that candidates for peace judges be elected in general elections at the level of local government units, powiats and districts of the municipality of Warsaw. The judges of peace will be elected in general elections with local elections. This is a solution to rationalise the cost of choosing judges. The person elected by the citizens will necessarily be far more independent of the other authorities, having his own electoral mandate and thus the support of the citizens than the person appointed by the closed grenades. This is a distinction against other projects - that we give the choice of this judge or each judge 100% citizens. An important element of the bill is the allocation of two assistants to each judge's room. This is also a distinction against other projects. We believe that this will ensure the efficient functioning of the proposed institution and rapid handling of ongoing proceedings, which is one of the objectives of the designers. The project assumes that courts will become courts of first instance in the simplest cases with the lowest quality burden. We propose that the following categories of cases be handed over to the courts: offences; criminal cases punishable by fines, restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to one year; as well as the following civil cases: property rights, benefits, if the value of the subject matter of the dispute does not exceed 10 000. zł; matters referred to in Chapter II of Title II of the Civil Code, i.e. for claims with guarantees or guarantees if the value of the subject matter of the contract does not exceed 2 000. zł; disputes with the tenant's claim against the tenant; matters referred to in Article. 144 Civil Code, i.e. Neighborhood disputes about the so-called. Immissions; disputes against unlawful acts if the value of the subject matter of the dispute does not exceed 10 000. zł and the claimant's claim is not related to the conduct of business; disputes for infringement of ownership, if the value of the subject matter of the dispute does not exceed 10 000. PLN; disputes for the issue of property and for the protection of property, if the value of the subject-matter of the dispute does not exceed 10 000. zł. The district courts will become appeals for decisions taken in the courts of peace. Candidates for judges of peace will not be entitled to campaign because this could conflict with their independence. Peace courts are to be placed in the organizational structure of regional courts. This is expressed in the adopted construction, according to which they will be located at the seat of the regional court, and their financing will be made from the state budget in the part transferred annually to the financing of the general court. In view of the fact that the courts of peace are to act at the level of each county and city on the rights of the county, as well as the district of m.st. Warsaw, and not in each of these territorial divisions there is a regional court, which is why it is proposed to open branches of local regional courts and to equip them with courts of peace. The candidates for the judges of the peace are to meet the requirements as candidates for the judges of the regional court. In this respect, however, it is proposed to modify the definition of a higher age limit of 35 years. The functioning of the peace courts is expected to result in a significant acceleration of the proceedings conducted by the general courts. In the opinion of the authors of the project, the proposed solutions, in particular the selection of candidates for peace judges in the general election, will increase public confidence in the justice system. To date, judicial reforms have repeatedly been justified by the need to bring justice closer to people and to increase the participation of the social factor in the administration of justice. However, such justification does not alter the fact that the laws adopted by the Sejm in recent years have not fulfilled this function in any way. The draft law is also intended to be a legislative response to the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2001 to remove colleges for offences and to refer cases to the criminal departments of the regional courts which they consider. This procedure was, of course, in line with the constitution in which the judicial system was entrusted only to the courts. In the meantime, colleges of delinquency were out-of-court bodies and as such were not part of the constitutional structure of judicial authority. However, this procedure has resulted in a significant burden on regional courts, affecting the long-term nature of judicial proceedings in the coming years. The long-term objective, which the designer has set himself as a consequence of the proposed regulation, which is, as it were, the result of the ad hoc objective of speeding up judicial proceedings, is to achieve a significant increase in citizens' confidence in justice. This trust will only be able to be restored if citizens have a real impact in the process of identifying candidates for judges of peace and when judicial proceedings are accelerated. This is what citizens expect from numerous surveys and social research. On behalf of the applicants, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we are hoping for a good, constructive discussion of all the projects and that they will not undergo any long-term freezing at the next stage and that we will be able, in real time, to bring about a comprehensive law on the courts of peace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u8	Thank you very much, sir. I'm sure we'll be investigating these projects in the room. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska to present the justification for the bill contained in prints 1763 and 1763-A. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking mainly about the courts of peace and also about commercial judges. But let's talk more about the justice system. Where did all these projects come from? The justice system - despite what the Law and Justice have declared repeatedly, that this is the primary objective of the changes it is making - does not work, does not function efficiently. Chronicity of proceedings is still one of the biggest problems in the justice system. It affects every citizen at the lowest level. In many cases, matters of vital importance, such as cases in labour law courts, a minimum of one year is expected for the first hearing. And this applies to, for example, fired when an employee wants to prove that he was wrongly fired, among others. e.g. Disciplinaryly, and there's no chance of that for over a year. This is an outrage. This does not improve the lives of Poles and Poles in any way. In the case of ordinary events such as a clash, these hearings are only convened after a very long period of time, e.g. just after a year, when witnesses don't remember any of it anymore. It really doesn't make sense. It doesn't work, it just doesn't work. These changes, which you are making, destroy the Polish rule of law, destroy our democracy, and in no way help Mr Kowalski - and Mr Kowalski, who sits here before me and listens. It may happen that you, Mr President, will also go to court on a case such as this, and you will want a quick settlement. You're gonna want to, I don't know, get a ticket out of the way or have somebody pay you an invoice. And right now, you don't have it. Right now, you're gonna have to wait a long time for it. Therefore, all these projects, in my understanding, aim to improve this situation. Our project is a project that has been submitted - i.e., the assumptions for this law have been submitted - even in the previous term. We were the first ones to bring him in. But this isn't a race. The idea is to introduce this institution, to introduce something that will actually help Poles and Poles to pursue justice quickly and effectively. Accelerate the proceedings, relieve the courts from these trivial cases is the essence of the project submitted by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left. It is also intended to strengthen the democratic dimension of the legitimacy of justice, so that citizens and citizens feel that these judgments are actually on their behalf, that these judgments are for them and that the justice system is not remote, it is not unattainable, it is only here, close, in my community. That is why we propose that the election of peace judges should take place with the participation of local communities, i.e. the inhabitants who support the candidate, and that this choice should be made by the councils of the municipalities. Candidates who would meet the conditions that I am about to mention would have to submit a minimum of 50 signatures in support of their candidacy and this candidacy would be considered by the council of the municipality. What requirements do we provide for candidates? We predict, firstly, the age between the ages of 31 and 65, legal education and legal experience of at least 1 year in the field of legislation - it may be the work of local authorities, it may be the pursuit of the profession of lawyer, counsellor. These are the requirements we provide for candidates. Moreover, we believe that the council of the municipality, which should conduct a public hearing of candidates, should select two, two of them in a secret ballot and present these nominations to the general assembly of the regional court territorially applicable to the municipality in order to preserve this element, that judges elect judges. We're not gonna be legitimizing, like one of these projects, the neo-KRS. It's the judges who have to go and plead. Therefore, according to our project, the president of the regional court will appoint a judge of peace, which in the municipality will be for a minimum of 30,000. residents representing the justice system of the nearest citizen. We also believe that supervision of the activities of peace judges should be entrusted to a regional court. This supervision will be exercised by the chairman of the regional court in accordance with the principles of our project. Moreover, as it is a new institution, not yet known in our legal order, visits are necessary. The judge's visits were scheduled once every six months during the first term and during the next one every year. These visits will be conducted by the president of the district court or by a judge authorized by him to see how this works. If the judge in question receives a negative assessment of his office three times, he will not be able to apply for re-election. It is necessary for supervision of this new institution to work. We believe that the vow which the judge of peace makes to the President of the competent regional court also results in such a connection between the general justice system and the judges of peace - which, of course, according to our assumption are not judges within the meaning of the Constitution. These are people who, like the court's assistants, carry out a limited number of tasks assigned to them, to a very limited extent. Therefore, in our view, there is no need to change the constitution here. We absolutely do not see this need, nor does our project foresee it. The Justice of Peace, of course, benefits from all constitutional guarantees regarding the exercise of justice. The judge of peace is irresistible, he is independent, and there is no possibility here of interfering Minister Ziobra in how he will perform his duties. Because it is a new institution, as I say, we believe it is necessary to carry out, as was the case with Portugal, when this solution was introduced, piloting in less than the entire territory of the country. We offer Opolskie voivodship and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. We propose that vacathio legis lasts a year and that after the Circumference of this year in these voivodships implement this solution to see how it works. These voivodships are quite balanced in terms of social structure, they are representative of our national social structure. We would like to see how this works so that we can possibly correct certain shortcomings that would most likely arise. It's always like this with new things that you move in with. Therefore, three years after the publication of the law, this solution would be implemented across the country, but as I say, we would like to see how it works in a limited territory. The scope of the cognition, of course, with regard to matters entrusted to the judges of peace, is similar, more or less the same as in other projects. We just think that all these cases that can be resolved in one trial, these trivial cases, should go to the judges of peace. If the judges of peace consider this to be a more complex matter requiring the appointment of an expert, that is, it cannot be settled. At one hearing, it will simply be referred to a district court. Of course, the judges of peace will have to sue the district court. I think we'll be able to work on these laws on the committee. I would like this to be civilised work - here I am addressing the chairman of my committee, Mr Mark Ast - so that it is not at an hour. 2 a.m. so that we can have a quiet conversation about these projects, because, as I see, from many political backgrounds, there is a need for a change in this direction. We are certainly different in terms of the scope of this - this is my main problem with the President's project - but we do see this need. It is seen by many different political environments: left, right, center, PSL. I really think that this solution is simply needed in Poland. It is needed to relieve the justice system, to speed up proceedings, and so that citizens finally feel that they are adjudicating on their behalf and that the justice system is not to be somewhere far away from them to be - that is a bad word that once fell - a caste, only to be part of the entire legal order in Poland, part of civil rights, right to prosecute justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Almost like Solidarna Polska.]] [[Almost makes a big difference.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u10	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Myrsze for his brilliant comment. [[I'm doing the best I can, Marshal.]] Me too. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed that, in the joint discussion on these items, it will hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would very kindly ask Mr Mark Ast from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, at the same time the head of the committee. Am I right? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the proposed bill on judges of peace. Just as it has already fallen in this Chamber, it is an institution extremely expected and probably expected with kindness by legal environments, political environments. First of all, it is expected by citizens of the Republic of Poland. Why is she expected? We've all talked about it, too, and we're talking about it. This is due to the imperfections of our justice system, the problems that our judiciary is experiencing, above all, the chronicity of proceedings resulting from the strain of cases, the influence of cases to common courts, especially minor cases. This applies both to civil and criminal cases. The institution of a judge of peace is, of course, no stranger to various legal orders. She has been operating in the Anglo-Saxon system for decades, but also - as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the presidential project - in some European countries, for example. in Switzerland, similar solutions are adopted. The essence of this institution, the essence of a judge of peace, is above all that it comes from a universal choice - and it is also that you have repeatedly stressed that this is his asset, that he has a mandate by choice, a social mandate to perform his duties. He must also, of course, result from trust in the person who will exercise this mandate. But this is also the demand of the citizens who say: we do not want to have confidence in the judges who are to decide our affairs, our affairs of life, to settle disputes between us. Therefore, one can ask: Why has there been no consensus between all political forces so far to introduce this institution into the Polish legal order? This is our chance right now. As I said, the very solution in the form of the courts of peace, the judges of peace, is expected and an expression of the exit against this social expectation is the fact that today we are debating not only the presidential presentation, but also the projects submitted by the parliamentary clubs of the Civic Coalition, the Polish Coalition and the Left. It must be said that, of course, the most complete project was submitted by the President of the Republic to describe both the institution of the judge of peace itself and the procedures which are described in the latter project - Introductory provisions. It is also difficult to disagree with these proposals, which are included in the project, as regards both the universality of elections and the scope of matters to be dealt with by a judge of peace or by the courts of peace, as well as the conditions to be met by a judge of peace. Of course, as regards details, the discussion will take place during the legislative process. One may wonder if it is only one term, because a judge of peace who does his work well for six years gains the trust of the people of his district, the district in which he determines whether it would be good for him to have the chance to be elected for his next term of office. But it's a matter of discussion. As far as these details are concerned, today I think it's not the time and place to talk about them. There'll be time for that on the committee. The most similar to the presidential project is the project of the Polish Coalition. I think that with many solutions there will be agreement, there will be a lot to be worked out and in principle I do not see any big contradiction between these two projects, in particular that one and the other assumes a universal choice of judges of peace. The Left project assumes an indirect choice - and it is kind of a weakness of this project, because the indirect choice no longer corresponds to this social expectation that the local community will choose its judge of peace. Here we can argue about how many inhabitants there will be such a judge of peace. It is even possible to discuss whether the criterion of the residents or the criterion of the cases that are in the court of which the district court is charged, which will fall on the judge of peace. But like I said, that's the details. However, there is a fundamental difference between the presidential project and the Left project. On the other hand, the Civil Coalition project is, in fact, about a completely different institution. I do not think that simply these projects submitted by the President, by the coalition club of Poland and the left, can be combined with this project, which was reported by the Civic Coalition club. However, a citizen's trade judge is something completely different than a peace judge. Furthermore, the applicant, justifying this project, also showed this. So I think that this project will have to be dealt with separately, although our club does not disqualify this proposal in advance because it affects the economic judiciary problem. We are aware that there are problems in this judicial level, as well as the length of proceedings and the large complexity of the matter that these courts deal with. High Izbo! In view of the social expectations and the willingness to resolve the problems underlying the submission of projects on judges of peace, on behalf of the club, I request that the projects be submitted to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for further examination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u12	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are working on a law which, I have the impression, is the result of a certain obsession with President Duda, an obsession that is going not only to destroy independent judicial politicians, but above all to deprive Poles of access to professional justice. This bill is unconstitutional, but the president has gotten used to us since the first weeks of his term of office. The Polish Constitution does not provide for courts of peace, and citizens can participate in the justice system, but do not exercise it alone. Today we don't need another unconstitutional, sloppy, ill-prepared bill. Today the most important issue for Poland is the liquidation of the so-called. The Disciplinary Chamber and the neo-KRS. The project we are discussing is the result of a dirty political deal and a smokescreen for PiS stubbornness and craftsmanship. The President should now bring forward a draft law implementing the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The advantages of the new law, as we hear from the designers, were the direct elections of peace judges. Except it's a lie. After the choice of the judge of peace will be verified by the politicised neo-KRS and appointed or not by the President. It is the political nominees of PIS and Ziebra in the neo KRS that will decide who can and who cannot be a judge of peace. If that's not enough, the D.A. will be able to block any candidacy. All he has to do is start dealing with the candidate and simply eliminate the inconvenient candidate for a judge of peace. If anyone thinks there's not gonna be such a temptation in the politically and manually controlled Ziobra Attorney's Office, then he's really a fantastic guy. The choice of a judge of peace will be a farce, a populist cover for the destruction of the independence of justice, because that is the purpose of this law. If you think that the purpose of this law is to introduce citizens with support from local communities into justice, then you have been deceived. The best chances for a successful electoral campaign will be for candidates with strong support of structures, including party structures, to help raise money, organise trainings, organize meetings with the candidate. The law provides for more than 4,000. new jobs for unprofessional judges. These are people who, let's not be illusioned, at least in part will be pointed out by local politicians of present power. Moreover, politicians themselves, members of the party, will be able to run as judges of peace. Only after choosing, after 14 days will they be able to resign from membership. Like Piotrowicz, Pawłowicz passed from the benches to the Court, for example. local activists straight from the councilmen's seats will go to the court of peace and will continue to be grateful to their party. It was supposed to be faster, more efficient, but this bill would only deepen the chaos in the justice system. The unconstitutionality of many of the provisions of this law and the participation of the politicized neo-KRS in the election of judges will make it impossible for the citizen, leaving the court of peace, to be sure that the judgment was given by the judge, whether it was a judgment at all, whether it was a piece of paper that could be successfully questioned in proceedings before independent courts. What will the judges of peace decide? E.g. criminal liability for theft. The charge of theft is a very serious matter. You can go to jail, lose a good name for years, lose a lifetime here. In such a case, as the designers say: trivial, do we really want someone to judge who is not an independent judge? Would we put our lives and health in the hands of the rectors rather than the doctors? In civil matters, for example. Alimony. Would you like to tell us why your ex-husband I don't want to put it on. For the child of some ex-girlfriend, I don't know, a PiS councilwoman whose minister of justice can take off his obligation of secrecy? [[Obsession.]] The presidential bill on peace judges is simply a legal bullshit that doesn't make life any easier for anybody. 70 pages of regulation, exemptions, exceptions, legislative errors, internal contradictions. It is a real shame that after so many months a project comes out of the Presidential Palace, which is less valuable than the paper on which it was printed. You're just introducing an increased political oversight of the justice system through the back door. If citizens think they're gonna pick judges... The Neo-KRS will verify these judges, the President will appoint them as he likes them, and Minister Ziobro will move them, release them from secrecy, issue administrative orders. High Seym! Let me repeat: today Poles do not need another unconstitutional, sloppy and harmful act. Today the most important issue for Poland in the Polish judicial system is the liquidation of the so-called. The Disciplinary Chamber and the depolitics of the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u14	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presidential projects on peace judges are an expression of the magical thought that we will add some solution and there will be a miracle, and everything will be solved. Well, nothing's more wrong. If someone thinks he will improve the situation in the justice system with solutions based on small substantive requirements, small or no procedural experience instead of professionalism and the specialisation of judges, he is mistaken. This presidential project, the PiS, is doing everything it can to destroy the independence of the courts, and the claim that the judges of peace will be elected in the general, direct elections is, ladies and gentlemen, pure fiction and publicity to convince citizens of the idea. Here are some examples from the bill. Art. 3 projects on the courts of peace refer to the general elections, but in the article. 20 and 21 are referred to the appointment of the President of the Republic of Poland as a judge of peace, at the request of the National Court of Justice. So the question arises as to who is really calling the judges. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 point 24 of the Act - Introductory provisions are added to the Code of Election for the General Election of Peace Judges. It states that elections are direct, the problem is that in the light of Article. 3, 20 and 21 peace judges are faced with a model example of indirect elections. Such a provision makes it possible for the President to refuse to appoint a candidate despite the fact that he has obtained support in the general election. It should also be noted that the project provides for a term of office. Whether it's one, two or three terms, it's still gonna be a violation of the article. 179, which shows that judges are appointed for an indeterminate period of time, which is also an expression of independence. So about $4,000. The chosen people will pass through the neo-KRS, which means that the PiS state is doing everything it can to destroy the independence of the courts and politicalise these elections. As if it weren't enough, people belonging to the political parties can run for Justice of Peace. The person who has been elected should only submit a declaration of resignation from political parties within 14 days from the date of the announcement of the results of the elections. The drafters, justifying these projects, refer to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2007, but, in the light of that decision, quote a convenient passage of the statement of reasons. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that it does not matter whether it concerns matters of minor or greater importance. In any event, the court should be independent and the judges should not be bound by it. If judges are to be elected in general elections and then decide on matters within their electoral districts - let us remember that citizens can make contributions to the campaign - will they be considered to be an independent court? This ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which I have referred to, is a kind of memento for the designers of the laws in question regarding the consequences of appointing an institution which is not in accordance with the Constitution. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the cost. Okay. $4,000. Peacekeepers, about 1,300 assistants and over 7,800 administrative staff. Do you know what it's going to cost in 10 years? PLN 8.7 billion. Can you imagine the cost? If at least some were allocated to the justice system, to increase the number of well-paid administrative staff, to one assistant for the judge, to a sufficient number of referenda and judges, given the number of residents and the number of cases involved, the courts would really work well. Good procedure, good computerisation, professionalism of judges, even specialization, because it's hard for a judge to know everything - these are the ways to solve justice problems. And one more very important thing. If we're talking about a social factor, we have jurors today. The state has a huge role to play in promoting this involvement of the citizen in the justice system, and for years, unfortunately, this has not been the case. Mediation, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important way to solve justice problems. Better the worst deal than the best sentence, because it's made between the parties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the fact that these projects cannot be improved - neither concerning the courts of peace nor concerning the law - the provisions introducing the law on the courts of peace - we are requesting that the presidential projects be rejected from prints 1760 and 1761. We're making this request to the marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u16	Thank you very much. Please, it's time for the Left. Mr Andrzej Szejna, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u17	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Peace Judges Act is designed to bring the courts closer to the citizens. It is to become a reality of public participation in the administration of justice - unlike Zbigniew Ziebra's actions, which led to the partial elimination of jurors from a pandemic ruling. The Left and President's Act is to be a remedy for the justice system against the destruction that Zbigniew Ziobro and his crew have done over the past six years. They have destroyed the justice system. This destruction met with the reaction of the Left Club. Poles have the right to expect that someone who will judge their cases will also know the local reality, not that the President of the Court will cancel or call the Minister of Justice by fax. I will surprise you and quote Kornel Morawiecki, who once said: "Perhaps the Polish justice system requires more justice and less law. You need more empathy. Human sensitivity is important. It is the judges of peace who are to bring empathy and human sensitivity to justice. In addition, they are designed to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of justice, to promote greater public confidence in justice, to strengthen its authority and to accept its judgments. Today, the citizen is waiting incredibly long for the court to investigate the case and it is Zbigniew Ziobra's fault. [[Applause]] We have to do something about it. And the simplest and best solution is to bring in the judges of peace. Let me illustrate the statistics: after all, 11 months of waiting for an illegal union member to return to work is 11 months too many. Of course, we are not talking about Warsaw, because there may not even be a first hearing here. Let us remember that such an employee must also have the means to reach the court, which is not so simple at all with regard to the mass liquidation of labour courts after 2005. There are no matters more or less important, all are important and all should be dealt with quickly. The introduction of peace judges aims to speed up the examination of cases, thereby restoring a fundamental sense of justice. Increasing the number of judges to whom people will trust will enable legal protection measures to be implemented. The Left project and the presidential project in principle coincide, and the differences are minor - for example, the duration of the term of office, the scope of the cases to be dealt with by the judges, additional training before the start of work, which the Left proposes - apart from two essential issues: the choice of judges and their number. The Left proposes the choice of judges of peace through the assembly of judges of the regional court in an open vote from among the candidates presented by the council of the municipality. The Council of the Municipality or the committee empowered by it shall conduct a public hearing of the candidates. During questioning, councilmen, residents without time limit, may ask questions. The Left proposes one judge of peace for 30,000. Citizens, and the president, one in 10,000. residents. The general election proposed by the President has many flaws. The first, very obvious drawback is the cost. How much the election costs, you probably know Minister Sasin, but let's remember that the main cost of the election is the salary of the members of the committee. According to our estimates, the cost of making such choices is about 300 million. Let's not politicize these elections, let's not force candidates in the election campaign to outrun each other in promises of the type: I'll convict everyone, life for theft. We get enough populism from Zbigniew Ziobro every day. In our view, 1,200 peace judges will be sufficient to strengthen the justice system. The President's proposed 3800 judges is an excessive number. Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the parliamentary club, the Left is asked to continue to proceed on the submitted project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u18	Thank you. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Smilek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I present the position of our club with regard to the Parliamentary draft law on commercial judges and on the amendment of certain other laws. The project responds to the constitutional principle of strengthening civil society's right to participate in the exercise of justice. Citizens have the right to participate, and to a certain extent to co-decide what justice should be like in our country. They should simply have a real impact on the exercise of justice, that is, on the shaping of social relations and on the application of the law. For years the problems of the Polish judiciary have been prolonged processes, long waiting for a sentence, sometimes so long that even receiving a ruling changes the legal situation of the party. Judges' desks tend to bend more and more than excessive cases, and often economic proceedings persist due to the high degree of complexity of the issue. On the one hand, the proposed bill on citizens' commercial judges is an interesting attempt to put decisions into the hands of citizens in economic proceedings, on the other hand - it is a good example of relieving and strengthening the potential of Polish courts and Polish judges. As the designers say, the draft law is a proposal to implement the general constitutional standard on the participation of citizens in the administration of justice. The proposed mixed composition of the judge - one professional judge, two commercial judges - will, on the one hand, allow for the establishment of a professional factor within the panel, and, on the other hand, ensure the regularity of the procedure. Why is a citizen's trade judges an interesting proposition? We live in a very fast changing world - new technologies, new techniques for economic cooperation, new ways of production or, generally speaking, extremely fast changing business conditions. It's not always professional judges who keep up with these changes. Not everyone is able to track changing business trends. The presence in the formation of judges who have experience in doing business can only be a strengthening for professional judges who have to face ever-changing economic realities. The civic role of commercial judges is intended to be exercised by business citizens and serve to activate them as members of the local community, as well as to create the opportunity to benefit from their knowledge and experience in life and occupation. This is an interesting proposal, although the Left Club will make some changes or proposals for additional solutions during parliamentary work, e.g. in order to ensure the certainty and speed of proceedings, an additional criterion for legal training of a candidate for a civil commercial judge. Let me get this straight. The Left Club, bearing in mind values such as the participation of a civil factor in the administration of justice and the strengthening of professional judges by providing them with industry-specific knowledge of economic turnover, supports the proposed bill on civil commercial judges and calls for it to be sent to the relevant Parliamentary Committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Smishek. Now I will ask Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club of the Left. Mr President, you have 3 minutes, so take your time. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As is well known, the Peace Judge Act 1761 is the price PiS pays Mr Kukiz for his assistance. I would like to ask the initiator of the introduction of peace judges in this print, because our voters ask what you expect to see when you allow people to rule without experience and directional education. And second question, which we also expect answers to so that we can work well on this project: Who will decide - using the nomenclature of the governing party - about the crystallity of the character of candidates for judges? I would also like to ask what will be the system for verifying their knowledge and qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u22	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I will not be critical of any of the projects that have been examined today, because, as I said before, speaking in connection with the presentation of the project of the Polish Coalition, all these projects are going in the right direction. Let me just point out some differences in this debate. It seems that the project which I had the pleasure to present, the project of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, is the most farthest. Of course, the least difference is shared by our project and the presidential project, although, Minister, I would like to point out one flaw in the presidential project, which does not appear in the project of the Polish Coalition, namely the lack of a certain framework for the campaign before the election of the judges. The project you presented allows for the possibility of running a quasi-political campaign. In our opinion, it is worth putting up a dam, for example. a banner campaign or an online campaign run by a candidate for a judge of peace, because it seems to distort the essence a little bit. We in our project clearly state: an information campaign, i.e. a candidate for a judge of peace, presents a local community that will choose it, its silhouette, its achievements, its authority. And that's it, and that's it. It seems like it's something that needs to be worked out. The difference with the Left project is that it is a universal choice for us, and in the case of the Left project, which I believe is also a good project to meet needs, there is an element of indirect choice. In our view, this is something that could disrupt the effect of improving confidence or raising citizens' confidence in the choice of judges of peace and to judges of peace. In our opinion, the direct choice model, similar to the choice of its representatives in local governments, is the optimal model. But it's the only difference. The argument that proves the advantage of the project of the Polish Coalition, which I had the pleasure to present today, is what I have already signaled by presenting our project, namely the solution to appoint assesors in front of peace judges, i.e. people who will additionally relieve the judge from technical matters and those which are not related to the ruling. This efficiency factor is gaining importance. Our project and the project launched by the Civic Coalition are the most different, but we appreciate the model that is moving towards business and business issues. In this area, too, the terms call for vengeance to heaven today. And even if this solution solves some of the cases, it is also worth considering. I'd stop some critics from seeing something bad or sticking out on this project. Economic matters have their specifics and expertise in handling them will be extremely important. In conclusion, I would like to ask on behalf of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives to direct all four projects to further work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. There is no time for unnecessary procedures and no time should be wasted. I think that Poles expect a significant change which will bring some desirable and tangible results to every citizen in terms of the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u24	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There is no doubt that we are dealing with a crisis of the Polish judiciary. Draft laws brought to the Sejm or by the President or by the Members' Clubs show that the Ministry of Justice, which was to present the draft judicial reform, unfortunately failed after 6 years and can be said openly. On the other hand, these projects are an attempt to find a way out of the crisis. Before we begin to talk about detailed arrangements for the appointment of judges of peace, I would like to say two or three words in general. What's the role of the judge? The judge should settle disputes under the rules of law. I think it's worth saying this before we discuss exactly who should be appointed as judge, because the role of judge is fading. More and more often, judges themselves see their role slightly differently, more politically, less as serving as a function towards society, i.e. Those who are to settle disputes efficiently and fairly under existing laws, and more as those who are to support the camp of power, e.g. working on delegations in the Ministry of Justice and engaging in games in their own environment, or as those who are to fight against the camp of power, because on some political issues they do not agree, or for example. that they are to guard some doctrines, some political concepts that are not codified directly in the law, e.g. related to international law, related to EU law, related to certain detailed possible interpretations of the Constitution, which, however, are interpreted by law rather than by constitutional law, are simply a matter of certain belief that this is the case or that it is not. It turns out that some judges are ready even directly in the justifications of the judgments of the court to rely on different ideologies, because they believe that their role is that they have, for example. stand guard of some concrete ideology-political doctrine against some other ideology-political doctrines, while there is nothing about it literally in the law. All of this must be rejected. It is not possible to reform courts if judges or people aspiring to the profession of judge are digging into ideological positions and engaging in ideological warfare. That is what Parliament is for, and that is why we Members are here to argue about political concepts, different doctrines. Let the judges judge and judge well and justly. If it works, it's gonna be a lot. Now on the issue of reform. There is no doubt that we are dealing with a judicial crisis. The main problems that people pay attention to are perhaps even more than the injustice of judgments simply the chronicity of proceedings - a sad example is matters related to whether it is adoption or parental rights, capable of dragging longer than a child is a child, because it takes several years before the final judgment is passed, it goes through all the instances, so if it concerns a child of teenage age, then the child can reach adulthood and the cases are not fully resolved, so it should not be - the low social trust and the things that I have already mentioned - political commitment, not purely substantive, professional, judges. The main flaw I see in this project, which is presented here, is that this project has nothing to do with the reforms proposed by the Ministry of Justice. If we want to unload this blockage of cases that makes so many years You have to wait for a sentence, that's what I'd expect, we'd expect a design approach. This means that someone who brings specific projects to the Sejm will show us how. Within two years, five years or a decade, this will result in the discharge of the current blockage of cases. And there's just no calculations here. If we have a specific number, e.g. It is said that 3933 judges of peace are to be called, and I would also like to calculate what number of cases these people will consider and if the time for dealing with other matters that will not be passed on to the judges of peace is reduced. That's the kind of design approach that's missing. Moreover, there is no answer to quite basic questions. E.g. Where are we gonna get those judges of peace? If a remuneration of 80% is assumed We want people with legal education, with some practice and at least 29 years of age, and we still want to renew this state every six years, so where are we gonna get these people? What makes you think they can be recruited for that kind of money? If we want these people to be relatively professional in their ruling to gain some experience in order for this institution to take root, then the idea of a six-year term seems impossible. The lack of coordination with the Ministry of Justice is also quite obvious here. Let us remind (The Bell) that the Ministry in its recent proposals assumes the liquidation of the regional courts. Meanwhile, the judges of peace are to be rooted and supported by regional courts. Finally, the word on proposals that we have made as a Confederation - reorganising the work of general court judges - the principle that the judge should deal with only a few cases and finish them efficiently and quickly, and finally in specific cases, as part of the implementation of the Article. 182 constitutions, participation of a social factor, in separate key issues the vocation and introduction of jurors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u27	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland 2050 is famous for the fact that it does not hesitate to reach for new and custom solutions - but not to follow fashion, only to improve the life of Poles and Poles. I know that the judges of peace is a great name that arouses very positive emotions, very positive connotations. I had a history of law with Professor Adam Litynski, so I am in this small group, who knows, may not remember, but knows how the judges of peace functioned in the Duchy of Warsaw or in the first years of the Second Republic of Poland. However, the solutions presented today refer mainly to Anglo-Saxon patterns, by their very nature to the Polish legal system. They have a good goal - to improve the efficiency of the justice system, speed up its functioning, relieve professional judges. But they have no respect for the Polish tradition and for the Polish constitution - they go against the principle of inexorability of judges, tearing down a two-instant course of action. Yet the speed and efficiency of judicial proceedings can be ensured now, here and now, and with relatively little means. There are half as many judges as there are in the courts today. If, like the proposed projects, each judge of the general court had one or two assistants, then the proceedings would certainly have gained momentum. Similarly, the strengthening of the competence of judicial referees or any other simple thing - to ensure decent working conditions and pay for the judicial administration would probably work. In our idea for Poland 2050 we proposed the creation of courts of first contact in each district - consistent with constitutional order, supported by assesors and jurors, operating on the basis of a simplified procedure, with significantly reduced court fees. They could take over even a third of all cases. I'm sure we'll be back with this project. Among the solutions presented, the idea of the Left, with the institution of opposition to the judgment of the judge of peace, is a reasonable starting point for further work in our assessment. It comes from the right assumption that the judges of peace are not and will not be judges within the constitutional meaning. The pilot proposed in the same project is also a wise choice, a wise solution. Maybe not in two arbitraryly selected voivodships, but e.g. in several powiats selected on the basis of statistics on the duration of proceedings. Of course, this does not reduce the importance of the challenge in any way, because all the work would have to end after a possible period of piloting. By the way, it is a pity that the Court Watch Poland Foundation's good idea to appoint experienced jurors as judges was omitted. It is worth remembering that there is already a quite large crisis in the process of calling jurors. Polish people and Poles do not want to take on this social role. We are ready for further work on projects provided that they are compatible with the Polish Constitution. Neither the President's proposal, however well-developed by legislation and in many points interesting, e.g. as regards the electoral procedure, nor does the concept of PSL colleagues ensure this compatibility. Art. 175, Art. 176, Art. 179 - these are only the most important violations. An equally important brake is the further enhancement of the competence of the politicised National Judicial Council or of the so-called calculators. muzzle law, i.e. solutions for which today Poland is charged 1 million euros of punishment per day. By the way, none of the projects presented today, as mentioned by my previous speaker, has an impact assessment of the regulation. I do not know on what basis the number of cases for judges of peace was estimated or their real burden. We strongly hope that in the whole concept of judges of peace it is not about establishing some form of folk justice, but simply about increasing the participation of Poles and Poles in the ruling. Lawyers vulgarly call it a social factor. We firmly believe that the medicine that will be developed by the Sejm will not prove to be worse than the disease itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u28	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the limited speaking time, I will present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy on the most important regulations contained in the five projects under discussion concerning the establishment of peace courts and civil commercial judges. First of all, we would like to thank the President of the Republic of Poland for all the efforts so far to introduce into the legal order of the Republic of Poland institutions of the courts of peace, in a way that significantly affects the development of democracy and civil society. We would also like to thank all the parliamentary clubs involved in the legislative process on the establishment of peace courts and on the increased participation of the social factor in the exercise of justice. The Peace Courts Act is the implementation of the Kukiz proposal15, so we express satisfaction. For the benefit of all Poles, we can all cooperate in its adoption over political divisions. As it turned out just now, the Members of the Civic Coalition are pleased with this solution that we have right now. At the outset, it should be stressed that it is commendable for the designers to diagnose the greatest problem of common court proceedings involving the chronicity of proceedings. The length of the judicial process is strongly negative in society and considered the most important problem of Polish courts. Therefore, the establishment of peace courts whose jurisdiction is limited to cases with a relatively low level of complications is certainly a rational solution to this problem. In addition, the link between the office of a judge of peace and the process of direct democracy will significantly increase the trust of Poles in the judiciary. This also leads to the process of identifying citizens with justice, which is also an essential element of the development of a democratic society. In order to ensure that the courts of peace are able to function effectively and to address the problem of the chronicity of judicial proceedings, it is necessary to determine the number of judges of peace as regards their local jurisdiction and their structural link with the regional courts. We would like to pay particular attention to the electoral process when it comes to judges of peace, because it will depend on this regulation on the real sense of influence of Poles on the justice system. We believe that elections should be direct. At the same time, it would be appropriate to link the term of the judges of peace with the term of office of the President of the Republic of Poland and to hold the elections of the judges of peace within one election. On the one hand, this regulation will reduce the cost of organising elections, and on the other hand it will positively affect the turnout, which will increase the participation of the social factor in the justice system and allow a larger group of Poles to identify with the judiciary. We would also like to stress that the work of peace courts must be based on the work of experienced lawyers whose status will be as close as possible to the status of a professional judge. In view of the high demands and the relatively narrow range of candidates, it should be borne in mind that the form of a legal profession in the form of the office of a judge of peace should not only be financially attractive, but also provide stability with the temporary perspective of exercising that office. To sum up, in the opinion of the Members of the Polish Republic, Kukiz,15 - Direct Democracy is the most similar to the ideal model of the bill is a proposal submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda, for which we will propose some additional solutions. We believe that the upper limit of funding allocated to the information campaign should not be higher than one national average. We also believe that a candidate for a judge of peace should not be a member of a political party within three years before the elections and that there should be no limitation to the office of a judge of peace for one term. On the other hand, in terms of direction, scope and complexity of solutions, the proposal of the President of the Republic of Poland is the best project on the basis of which the High Chamber should draw up a target law. At the same time, I would like to end by thanking Prof. Piotr Kruszyński, who had already drawn up a White Paper on Judges of Peace with Mr Kukiz in his last term of office15, as well as chairing the team. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u30	Thank you very much. I have a request from Mrs Barbara Dolniak to correct it. Anything you wanted to correct? [[Yes, in connection with Mr Sachaika's statement.]] Some kind of super important rock moving case? Yeah, I guess so. Here you go. [[I think so, because it concerns the justice system.]] There you go, but of course, as this is a fundamental thing, we're asking. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u31	After listening to Mr Sachajka, I must say that you did not listen to my speech or to Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz's speech, because in no part of these speeches we did not say that we liked the state of justice today. We don't like him because we don't like the fact that the Minister of Justice rules the prosecutors. We do not like the fact that judicial proceedings continue to extend, and we must wait too long for judgment. We don't like making laws in your issue. We don't like the fact that you don't choose judges to be free judges. We do not like the fact that, despite the demands of administrative staff, you do not raise their wages to make them decent. We don't like the fact that you don't provide assistants to judges, at least one per judge. We don't like the justice system you're making. And that's what we've been saying for a long time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u32	Thank you very much. Now Mr Sachajko will say what he does not like. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Dolniak just said that I did not listen to them. I was just listening and your motion to reject the presidential project at first reading shows that you clearly do not want any change. You're fine as it is, you're just complaining. Thank you. [[Because we want constitutional changes. We don't want change...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u34	All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard... [[Game in the O.R.]] But listen up, hello, hello, this is the Sejm. [[Do I get time or not?]] [[Voice from the hall: What about our bill?]] You had 17 minutes, sir. [[But now I'm talking outside of club time.]] That's why I'm paying your attention. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Polish Affairs. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You can do anything, only sometimes a smile would come in handy. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u35	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle on the draft five laws on changes in the justice system. It is about changes that have led to some thinking differently than ever before, and have been accompanied by politicians in recent years. It is about taking over some control of justice by different environments, transferring this control to citizens to a greater extent. Of course, these projects are different, but as far as the objectives I mentioned are concerned, they have, I hope, a coherent denominator. You'd like to say, a drop digs a rock. It is the denominator that introduced the Kukiz15 citizen movement into the public debate, and I can express my satisfaction that after so many years of discussions, all political parties have submitted their projects. Maybe not all parties, but most of those who sit in the Seym. These projects are part of this discussion that was needed five years ago. Ba, it was necessary even much earlier, but we have the state we have, and I am glad that today we are discussing changes that are supposed to give citizens more control. These changes are intended to signal to citizens that their vote in elections is important and can change reality also in the justice system. Of course, this has led to a situation that has been bad in the justice system for years. As I listen to the costs of direct elections linked to these legal acts, it is a bit amusing, because if you count how much Poland has paid as a result of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights for complaints against Polish citizens about the justice system, it would turn out that this amount has been much higher in recent years. How much are we paying for failed reforms now? I just regret that there is no Ministry of Justice in this discussion, because it is the Ministry of Justice that should have an opinion and show the elements with which it agrees or disagrees. But I'm glad we're discussing it. Of course, we will be very eager to discuss all your projects. They're a little different and they touch things, but we should be discussing things, for example. the way you choose. Of course, the closest to Polish cases is to the presidential project and the project of the Polish Coalition, perhaps even more so to the Polish Coalition, because there are these primary and fundamental elements that go as far as possible when it comes to democratisation. We understand that this process must go on, he must go on. In a sense, we need to teach people and prepare for these major changes, and that is our task, that is the task of politicians. You're afraid of the general election, you're afraid of direct democracy. Let's focus on how to educate people so it's not a poster campaign. How to educate, how to provide people with knowledge, so that their choices are made aware of the choices made by judges in terms of qualifications, social trust. That is why I also believe that one term of justice for peace is not a good option, because we need to teach people social trust. People need to learn who they trust, and then they can verify. The same is true in terms of raising or under-qualified qualifications. The profession of a peace judge was supposed to be a profession that would, in a sense, crown a judge's career. I'm not talking about a very long experience anymore, but I'm sure the cases the judge's gonna be dealing with, these little things, but really very lifelike... These matters must be dealt with by a judge, who not only reads the letter of the law but also knows life, knows the local community and can also put empathy or knowledge of life into the whole doctrine of his ruling. Of course, it is important that we discuss how to choose, so that it is a feeling that not only and only the National Judicial Council, through different competences, influences who will ultimately become a judge of peace, but first of all so that people feel that they have given their vote to someone they know locally and know that this person really has the chance that no politician will participate in this. Let's discuss it. Let's work on it. I am very pleased that this discussion is taking place. She's absolutely needed. The justice system is not better, although everyone can see precisely now that the personal changes from ours to yours, from yours to ours, which we will control, simply do not work at all. And this is the success of this debate today. I hope this will not be the last debate and that it will be factual. As you can see, she's not free from political dispute, but whatever, whatever. The important thing is that we are talking about making arguments and that people will listen to what this institution of judges of peace will really be about, because this is an element of education that we are all committed to as politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u36	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. 22 people are reported. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Therefore, we will stick to time, because then there will be four 15-minute statements. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I invite Mr Janusz Kowalski. [[Mr. Marshal, so many projects. Two minutes, please.]] We're not gonna make it in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, you know my liberal approach to these matters. If we set two minutes, it's just gonna say half. So I'm offering you one minute after all. [[1.5.]] [[But we won't cross, Marshal.]] Ma'am, I've been sitting here for two years, I know these assurances. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] When I get out, I'll move, of course. You're welcome, sir. [[We've lost a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the ignorance of Members of the Civic Platform and the Left, I would like to make it clear that the reform of the judiciary has been directly under the responsibility of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, since the reform of Minister Zbigniew Ziobro was stopped in 2017. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] And today we can clearly sum up this period that this dialogue with Brussels... [[That's what Minister Ziobro does.]] ...from the Polish side with good intentions, unfortunately ended in defeat, because on the Brussels side there was no such good intentions and never will be. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to answer the question of what is the biggest problem of the judiciary today. The problem is gangrene, of course. This dead tissue in the judicial system is politicized by judges who go to all those CODE birthdays with Donald Tusk, applauding. Instead of ruling in courts, they play politics (the bell), they go to the bottom of the Civic Platform. The answer to this gangrene is simply amputation. We will depoliticize justice and reform Mr Zbigniew Ziobro.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u38	Thank you very much, sir. We ask the floor of Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u39	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, with all your sympathy for you, you have come to the Presidential Palace in a toga with a green frog, but unfortunately today you have lost this legal ethos on the way because you have prepared an absolute legal bubel. A bubble that is practically underdeveloped in every plane. A simple example: In the Universal Courts Act, it says that the judge is sitting in a toga with a chain and an eagle in a crown, and in your bill it says that the judge of peace will serve in a toga with an eagle chain, but without a crown, somewhere you lost the crown along the way. [[Applause]] Let's move on. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 18 says he cannot be a candidate for a judge of peace any person against whom there is a proceeding. What about the presumption of innocence? You can do this only to close the access path to this function. So it's really a career-promoting law for PiS activists. There are many bigger problems, such as alimony. Suggesting that these are simple matters and giving the Minister of Justice the opportunity to take a secret in this matter from the judges of peace (The Bell) is another absurdity that cannot be done in this bill. There are so many more problems like this. The choice of judges alone is not direct, Marshal, is indirect. After all, first there is the opinion of the KRS, then there is the election and the presidential nomination. It's just a big legal dumpster shit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We already know that the Presidents of the Peace Courts will be the Presidents of the District Courts, and all aspects of their activities will be governed by the Minister of Justice. Cases are to be granted at random, but the allocation is affected by the Minister, ensuring proportionality of the burden on cases. So, in conclusion, it is to be as likely to be with the feedback in our Seym until the desired result of the vote is achieved, and there draws can be repeated. We also know who can become a judge of peace - it can be any unpunished master of law. Whether these are good and only criteria for good administration of the judges of peace, Poles must answer themselves. In the meantime, I kindly ask the President's office to justify the requirements that the judges of peace must fulfil. I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, the question to the absent Minister of Justice, what he thinks of the institutions of judges of peace and whether, in the context of the planned reform of flattening the structure of the courts in Poland at all, such a thought is acceptable. Question to the Minister representing the President: Have there been any talks on the line of the Presidential Palace - Ministry of Justice? Has the President made any arrangements with Minister Ziobro? Are you familiar with Minister Ziobro's position on judges and courts of peace? Are there any talks going on today on the line of the Presidential Palace - the Ministry of Justice about flattening the structure of the courts, which kind of precludes the establishment of the courts of peace? As regards Minister Ziobro's reply, the Minister of Justice, I ask for a written reply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, a parliamentary circle called the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u45	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On commercial judges, I would like to say that this is a solution that, of course, has been expected by the environment for a very long time, and this is a solution that is as positive as possible, going in a very good way. In fact, I am still sending the appropriate interpellations in this case - side, but related. However, I would like to say that, above all, any steps to improve the functioning of the courts - in this case It is in the support of specialists that they are positive and should be supported. I hope this is triggered as soon as possible. To my proposal, I have one specific question: What are the projected maintenance costs of such judges, this system? In other words, how much will the cost of maintaining the entire system increase, and how much will such judges earn for handling the case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u47	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, citizens have no doubt that the changes made so far by the PiS government in the area of the judiciary have caused it to work probably the worst, at least since 1989. The increasing waiting time, the increasing confidence, the drain of experienced workers is the result of both the government and the President's activities. Instead of introducing changes that would result in increased trust, increasing the capacity of the judiciary, e.g. It's about assistant judges, computerization, higher salaries, and the government has been involved in this kind of politicisation so far. These projects meet the expectation of such a simple solution. Of course, it may not work either because... This is a question for the Minister, who is a representative of the President's Office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The newly appointed judges in accordance with the draft are to be verified by the politically-established National Courts of Justice and subsequently appointed by the President. How do you explain this to people? Thank you very much, Mr... After all, they should choose, not KRS. How do you even look at it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u49	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns the proposal that I made in the course of discussing the projects in order to link the elections for peace judges with the presidential elections. Then we would be assured that they would actually be universal. We have examples of different choices, for example to the agricultural chambers to which it goes, I don't know, 5% society. Here, too, it would be a danger that few people will go to the peace elections. The second question concerns your project, which is to limit your term of office to only one term. Such a judge will not be motivated to actually work as he should. If it were two terms and after the second term he could be immediately elected by the KRS to court, then we see his involvement and there is no danger that it will be just such an element in his career as a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a pity that the discussion on such important and ground-breaking projects in the field of Polish justice at certain moments was, unfortunately, completely unsubstantiated. Here some Members have shown some obsessive disbelief in the fact that citizens can choose objectively and not everything must be politicized. If we go on that track, we'll say the Seym is politicized. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It is.]] I have a question for you... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! I see that Members do not understand such basic sarcastic terms, but I can explain it. [[Are you part of the party?]] You know, I think you should be pleased that you are emotional, and there is nothing wrong with that at all. Please. But I'm not talking about emotions. Very well, I just want to be free to speak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] There you go. But I have a favor to ask of you... Okay. Everything's cool. I'm extending your speaking time, and I'm asking you to listen. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ask me a question. Minister! I have questions about the project. Is it really a matter of simple recalculation: one judge per 10,000. does not lead to e.g. to the situation that there may be more judges of peace than professional judges? Can not the question of some contributions or the absence of a limitation of one person's contributions cause one person to finance the entire election campaign? There are more questions. Is there any openness on the part of the President to possible changes in the process of further proceedings regarding the term of office here? I would very much appeal for that. As I say, we support all projects, they should be discussed, but please approach them fairly and objectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna refer to the draft peace magistrates bill. I would first of all like to draw attention to the negative effects of this regulation. I am talking about the state of legal confusion and legal uncertainty in matters of court and court matters, whether they are due to judgments brought about by revolutionary changes in the Polish justice system. The still existing Constitution of the Republic of Poland - for some only on paper - says clearly that the justice system of the Republic of Poland is governed by: Supreme Court, common courts, administrative courts, military courts. It is difficult in this constitution to find the institutions of the court of peace. This means that any judgment of such a court may be regarded as an act of state authority, but not as an act of the authority to give judgment, which is indicated in the basic law having the highest legal force (the bell). How, then, can this provision of the Constitution be reconciled with the objective set out in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal to strengthen the judiciary so that citizens can identify with the Polish justice system and have confidence in judges? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u54	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Justices of Peace, justice close to the people - that's the password on the Ministry of Justice's website on judges of peace. But there's a lot of doubt. The bill assumes that lawyers, lawyers or applicants cannot apply for the post. They're gonna have to give up these functions or just suspend them. But the ban doesn't include retired prosecutors. Does that mean that the PiS is opening the gate for Ziobra's prosecutors to fill these posts? Candidates will be reported to a politicised National Court Register, which will check whether they meet the requirements, which will allow for the loss of uncomfortable candidates' authority. And finally, what about the constitutional records? Is it not so that without a change of constitution it is not possible to introduce such an institution? According to Art. 177 common courts have a judicial system (the bell) and other forms can be used in the pre-trial procedure. Please inform me about this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland. Please, Jack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have three questions in fact, and they are all addressed to the representatives of the President, because he is co-responsible for it, because it was his package of judicial laws after questioning, vetoing the Ministry of Justice's proposals that introduced this mess into the Polish judiciary and today we are looking for some way out of what the President has introduced us into, among others. Just by proposing to bring in the judges of peace. I want to ask if the President has any reflection after what he did in 2016 or 2017. Is he positive about his decision or even negative? Perhaps he intends to do more than just introduce the judges of peace into the Polish justice system to improve the situation in which he is an accomplice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Secondly, how does the President assess the current proposals, the announcements of the reform of the justice system that are being worked on at the Ministry of Justice, also in the context of the judges of peace? Third question: Is the President going to do anything about the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which clearly state that the independence of the National Judicial Council, which is also to appoint judges of peace, raises serious doubts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u58	Thank you very much, sir. We will now ask Mr Mariusz Goska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Then we will ask Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In cases of misdemeanor for bringing applications to the court for the punishment of demonstrators, which usually referred to the defence of women's rights, the independence of courts, the defence of democracy and many other issues, quite often the judges, by issuing a judgment, relied on the constitution and international law and acquitted those persons. Therefore, I have a question: Do you think that the judges of peace will be able to dig into matters and the constitution and international law in order to give a fair judgment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The institution of peace judges seems a good idea, but subject to a number of important conditions. The most important condition is probably the proper choice of peace judges - competent, substantive and independent. I have a question for the president. Doesn't he consider that the most appropriate authority to choose peace judges from among candidates e.g. indicated by the local authority is e.g. General Assembly or General Assembly of Judges of the District Court? Mr President's idea of an election campaign without a candidate limit may make judges the richest with unclear goals (the bell) when it comes to fighting to be a judge of peace, or those who will be supported by e.g. political parties, and will decide the number of billboards, time bought in the media and the number of posters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u62	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The appointment of an institution of peace judges will actually relieve the county courts, which will not be dealt with by those cases which have so far been brought by an appeal from the regional courts. These cases will end in the district court at first instance, if I understand the project correctly. I am referring to remedies which are normally available, especially those which are exceptional measures. Is there any significant change here? That's the first question. And the second case that concerns representation, whether it's a lawyer or an association, in front of these courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's it gonna look like? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? Hello, hello. There is no Mr Łącki. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. I'll say hello, hello. There isn't any either. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the president's representative. We've heard a lot about consultations. I wanted to ask what consultations were conducted in connection with the projects developed. How broad were these consultations, or in the same style as in the case of projects concerning the KRS or the Supreme Court? Where is the analysis of the impact of these projects? In order to introduce solutions so important in this case for justice, these consultations should be very broad and take some time. How long did it last, and with whom were they led? Where's the analysis? Apart from the short, round opinions that there have been consultations, there is no analysis, there are only round opinions in this explanatory memorandum. How is it possible that a person who belongs to a political party can run for judge of peace? After all, this is simply dragging political parties into the process of running. How is that possible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the cadence? After all, it is clearly stated in the Constitution that there is no cadence. Where did you come up with the idea of being a cadence? And it doesn't matter if it's one or two terms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u66	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President Duda and this government, the PiS government, are the only additions to court proceedings from 4 to 7 months. Another, of course, is the blocking of European funds. Poland is one of the last countries that do not have an approved National Reconstruction Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you who you've been cutting this bill under. The experience you require from candidates for judges of peace is experience in legal assistance, application or law-making activities. Were these criteria written under the assistants and associates of Łukasz Meza? Because they perfectly fit into the demands of the staff of the parliamentary offices, councillors and other political hungovers, which you have plenty of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very dangerous precedent - PLN 10 billion for incompetent persons, for an institution that will have to be authorised by the neo-KRS and this president, to whom we do not have fundamental trust. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u68	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! After six years of your reign, you're still trying the same tricks in destroying the justice system. The reform of the Constitutional Tribunal was intended to improve the procession. Effect: TK examines less cases than before the change, but they rule as soon as the PiS wishes. Changes in common courts were supposed to speed up the work of courts, but they slowed down, and judges were persecuted and bullied. Therefore, when you submit another project and justify it with an improvement, we know that you are talking about chaos and further submission to the courts. Today, independent judges acquit citizens protesting against power. Will the judges of peace do the same by calling for a constitution? I don't think so. And most importantly, all the judges of peace are to approve your neo-KRS, so any sentence they give will be challenged. The only reason you need this project is to make a political deal with Paul Kukiz and keep most of it in the Seym. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Marshal. The sacred right of citizens and citizens to an independent court you sell for maintaining yourself in power. It's a disgrace. There isn't, and there won't be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u70	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I have a request for Mr Myrcha. Hello, sir, I have a courtesy to you. You can hear all this here, I don't mind, but you are disturbing your own Members. I have known Mr Ionski for a very long time, and I would not want him to be stressed out because of you. You're welcome, sir. [[We've known him a lot longer, and we know he's not stressed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u71	Thank you, Marshal. I've known your marshal for a long time, too, so I wouldn't want your marshal to be stressed out about someone talking in the O.R. Thank you for your support. As for the draft law, the fundamental, most important point is that we have a system of justice enshrined in the Constitution and any change also requires a revision of the Constitution. If anyone in the law wants to get past this and make changes to the justice system, they're breaking the constitution. I'm surprised you're doing this, but maybe I shouldn't be surprised. But it is difficult to disagree with Prof. Kwiękalski and Prof. Zoll, former President of the Court and former Ombudsman, who emphasize precisely that this law cannot be adopted without amending the Constitution. But I'd like to focus briefly on the money. 4,000. Peace magistrates have 1311 assistants and 7866 employees. For 10 years it will be almost 9 billion PLN. And when I look at protests of workers who work in courts for which there is no money, and here there is to be spent 9 billion (the bell), I have a question for the representative of the President, to the Minister: How much cheaper would it be if we hired more judges in already existing courts than what you presented? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u72	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Justice of Peace. I heard here that people need to be taught how to trust. For six years, we've been lied to, cheated, manipulated, bribed with donations. It's impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to fix this situation quickly. A peace judge would certainly work under conditions of full democracy and self-government, which unfortunately is lacking in us. After 6 years of judicial reform, our courts are helpless, slowed down and stubborn, all in favor of Tsar Ziobra. There is still a Disciplinary Chamber. Moreover, it is the fulfilment of the agreement, trade with Mr Kukiz for support and votes, because you would probably never agree to such absurdity. Another unknown. The current state of our judiciary needs support, but proven actions, not further innovation. Will one of the criteria for choosing a judge be to support the PiS? Will this guarantee independence? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u74	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to sum up our discussions, questions and statements. I ask the Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Katarzyna Frydrych, to refer to what has been happening in this Chamber since 3 p.m. 9. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u75	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for your vote, because I have heard that the Ministry of Justice is not present during today's debate. [[We don't know you very well.]] He's here. He listened to all the arguments and all the positions and voices in the discussion. Today we are debating five draft laws. As Mrs Żukowska rightly pointed out, this is not a race. As far as any changes in the system are concerned, they must be considered and analysed in depth. Regarding the draft laws presented by the President of the Republic of Poland: on the courts of peace and the provisions introducing the law on the courts of peace, I would like to point out that the government has not yet taken a position, but analytical work has already been carried out in the Ministry of Justice, which will undoubtedly lead to the development of comprehensive comments on this project. There is no doubt that the project itself should be assessed as having a worthwhile reflection on and leaning on, but requiring a very thorough analysis and preparation of a very detailed position, which will probably be presented by the Ministry of Justice in the course of further legislative work. But already the preliminary analysis of the project allows to make at least a few comments requiring undoubtedly clarification in the course of further work. In general, with regard to the proposed catalogue of criminal cases, it can be argued that, by their nature, they should, however, be excluded from the jurisdiction of the courts of peace. As one of the arguments in favour of this argument, the consequences of introducing jurisdictional restrictions on judges in relation to the penalties they have imposed, i.e. fines, penalties for restrictions on freedom, [[Applause]] which lasts for the longest six months, a sentence of imprisonment lasting the longest three months. According to the draft, the case shall be referred to the competent court if, in the course of proceedings before a court of peace, it appears that, on the basis of the circumstances of the case, including those disclosed at the hearing, the court of peace provides for a sentence of more than 3 months of imprisonment. The draft also provides that a court of peace may refer the case to a regional court if it considers that the decision on the subject matter of the case must be dealt with by a regional court. At the moment, it is difficult to predict how the practice will develop at the time of the entry into force of the law, but unfortunately, it is a real threat that the courts of peace can often benefit from the practice of passing on such cases to regional courts, for example, if they consider that the argument I have said that the court of peace will only have the right to impose a sentence of imprisonment if it considers that it should be imposed within a limit of 3 months. We are afraid that this may lead to a reduction in the level of the penalty, and the Ministry of Justice absolutely cannot accept such a flagrant relaxation. In the course of further work, consideration should be given to the mechanism for referring the case to a regional court, even in the situation envisaged by the draft, when proof from the expert's opinion is required before the court of peace. Then the case will not be recognized by the court of peace. Firstly, the number of exemptions from the jurisdiction of the court of peace, and the way these exemptions are formulated, may ultimately lead to multiple transfers between courts of files, which will ultimately result in an extension of the proceedings, and I understand, because it sounded during today's debate, that the length of proceedings is at our heart and we want the period of waiting to hear the case to be as short as possible. As I pointed out at the outset, the President's projects are being examined in the Ministry of Justice, they are noteworthy and we will certainly take part in further work and relate to individual solutions. Unfortunately, the fact that too short a period has passed since the transfer of the project to this day has prevented a thorough analysis of all these projects. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Please allow the Minister to speak. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Justice Katarzyna Frydrych: With regard to the Parliamentary bill on citizens' commercial judges and the amendment of some other laws, print No. 1378, I would like to point out that the project has been negatively assessed by the government. Citizen trade judges in accordance with the bill are to be appointed for a 5-year term by voivodship sejmies from among the reported citizens who show themselves - that is the rule - know in economic matters or other matters in the area of economic and civil law, belonging to the jurisdiction of the economic court. The rules do not indicate who would verify this knowledge and how it would be controlled. The project introduces a census of the age: 29 years old, but does not introduce a census of education. The bill provides that citizens' trade judges have equal rights with judges, except that they cannot preside at the hearing or the hearing or perform the duties of a judge outside the hearing. According to the provisions contained in the draft, the Civil Procedure Code relating to the District Court is to be amended as a court of first instance. Vacatio legis - 14 days. In fact, the scope of action of the civil society authorities of the commercial judge seems to duplicate the scope of the current juror institution referred to in the Law - the Law on the system of common courts on a number of aspects. The government therefore takes a negative view of this project, since the creation of civil institutions for commercial judges is contrary to constitutional requirements concerning the status of judges. I think Mr Dziambor has asked a question about the financial consequences. I did not find such an impact assessment as regards the assessment of the impact of the regulation on the state budget. How the costs of legal proceedings in economic matters will increase, how these judges might possibly be paid - these solutions are not in the explanatory memorandum. As regards the parliamentary draft law on the courts of peace and on the amendment of certain other laws, print No 1762, firstly, the construction assumption leading to the creation of jurisdictional powers of a new category of non-professional judges justifies, first of all, the need to express their compatibility with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as the possibility to appoint such a judge for a limited period. Without amending the Constitution, it is not possible to make such legislative changes in order to implement the guidelines proposed in this Act. The project was divided into five chapters: Organization of the courts, Jurisdiction of the courts of peace, Appointment of judges in the courts of peace, Voting, Amendments to the laws in force. I would like to point out that, according to the draft, the law is to enter into force on 1 January 2022, which seems unrealistic. Referring to the proposals of the solutions contained in this project, it should be pointed out the fundamental doubts precisely in relation to the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of these proposals, which relate primarily to the cadence, appointment of a judge and motives, since the designer, referring to the need for regulation, devotes attention only to the need to maintain the procedure of appointment by the President of the Republic of Poland, which corresponds to compliance with the requirements - at least that is what the designer considers - referred to in Article. 179 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. At least, it is questionable from the point of view of the axiological system, expressed by the existing rules on how judges get into their profession - it is currently mostly in line with the provisions of the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the provisions of the Law on the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts - a proposal for regulation that, in the event of a waiver of the application for re-election to a judge of peace, it is possible to transfer such a person from office to a judge of the regional court in which he ruled as a judge of peace. To be doubtful from the point of view of the transitional standard referred to in Article. 237 of the Constitution, it must be assessed in the explanatory memorandum of the Passus project that the draft law is also to be a kind of response from the legislator to the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal on the liquidation of colleges for offences and the transfer of cases to the criminal departments of the regional courts which they consider. The position regarding the Parliamentary draft law on Peace Courts, print No 1763, has not yet been taken by the government. I can only present the position of the Ministry of Justice, which I hereby do. Despite this title of the Act, the provisions of this project, which express the essence of the proposed idea: the creation of normative bases, the implementation of judicial tasks, are grouped into articles. There are five articles in total. In fact, these regulations refer to the amendment of the provisions of the Law - the Law on the System of General Courts, the Code of Civil Procedure or the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 4 to 5 provide for the obligation for the Minister of Justice to provide information on the activities of the courts of peace and the provision of the Article. 5 provides that the Act enters into force in the area of Opole and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship after the end of a year from the date of the announcement, and in other voivodships the Act enters into force 3 years after the date of the announcement. With this regulation, there is absolutely no way to agree. There is no possibility that there is a different system in the country than in the rest of the country. No pilotage may be introduced in relation to systemic changes in the functioning of the courts. In addition, in accordance with the Article designed in this draft. 61 § Point 2 (6) of the Law on the System of General Courts, a judge of peace who has served as a judge of the peace for at least two terms, is to be given the opportunity to submit his candidacy in a competition for the vacant position of a judge of the regional court. Such a solution is to provide for a further condition which exempts the candidate concerned from the requirement, as a general rule, to take a judge's or prosecutor's examination or to take the position of a judicial assessor acting as judge for at least 3 years. Referring to these proposals, the issue of the term of office of the judges of peace, the contradictions of the proposed rules concerning the mechanism for the selection of candidates for peace by the municipal councils and the general assembly of judges of regional courts, with the exception of the act of investment from the President, the lack of immunity under formal immunity, the negative consequences in terms of the procedural plane, particularly in this area, which I have already referred to as the duration in the two judicial districts of that law by, as the proposalor calls it in the explanatory memorandum, a pilot period, should be re-signed. In view of the above, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Justice will actively participate in the legislative work (the bell) on all projects. We'll lean over the solutions. It is not that we are avoiding this work, and my not taking a position earlier in today's discussion was the result of just waiting for such a voice to be given to me by your marshal. The question I have noted, which was addressed to the Minister of Justice, was a question asked by Mr Paszka. It concerned the judges of peace and the flattening of the structure, but the Member asked for a written reply and this response will be given to the Member. Thank you very much. Mr Paszik. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Justice Katarzyna Frydrych: Pasic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. Now please take the floor of the adviser to the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u77	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the votes that have been expressed in this debate in the course of the discussion and, in particular, in the vote of approval, because these votes were clearly overwhelming in terms of club speeches as regards Members' speeches. I think that you identify the state correctly - and so identify the society, which is confirmed by social studies - that the courts of peace are a good solution. This is a solution that gives the opportunity to fight the two main problems of the Polish justice system, which are a lack of trust in the courts and a question related to the length of proceedings. It is really important to relieve the burden of regional courts or district courts, as it has been here, from the recognition of minor cases, and to these minor cases we allow people who have the right qualifications, because we are talking about people who have legal education, have the right experience of living and have 3 years of experience in creating, applying law or providing legal assistance. There is no doubt that these are appropriate qualifications. If we are talking about tradition, because there were allegations that we are acting against the Polish legal tradition, it is a completely wrong voice, because if we open the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997, it indicates that we are to refer to the best traditions of the I and II Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that the courts of peace were, among other things, the courts of peace. March constitution and that the courts of peace acted in the reborn Republic, were very well assessed. Another thing is that later in the course of systemic changes, they were eliminated, but we absolutely refer not only to Anglo-Saxon traditions and to models which are in the continental system, European, but also to Polish legal traditions. There were constitutional arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, constitutionality is decided by the Constitutional Tribunal, but if constitutional arguments arise, I will say yes. Art. 175 of the Constitution states: The Supreme Court, the General Court, is held by the Supreme Court in the Republic of Poland. We very clearly state in these projects that the courts of peace are part of the universal judiciary. In the Constitution there is no explicit expression of district courts, district courts, appeals courts. Ladies and gentlemen, let us read the constitution if we invoke it. [[And the ruling of the tribunal?]] The structure of common courts is intertwined... Mrs. Member! There will be an opportunity for the applicant's representatives to be heard and questions and doubts may be included in this speech. Social Advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much, Marshal. A court of peace is an element of universal justice. First thing. Second thing. Art. 182 of the Polish Constitution states: "The participation of citizens in the administration of justice is governed by the law. And that's the bill. These are the laws, i.e. Peace Courts Act and Peace Courts Act - Rules introducing Peace Courts Act. Please note that commentators indicate that under this provision of the Constitution, Article. 182, various models of citizens' participation in justice are possible. One such model is the model of peace judges. This is apparent directly from the literature, from the voices that appear in the public debate, from the comments to the Constitution, from the publications that were published even this year in relation to these issues. Finally, you are questioning your participation in the trial as regards the guarantee of judicial independence, the KRS. It's absolutely curiosity. Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Constitution states: The National Judicial Council protects the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. This is a constitutionally binding and appropriate entity to participate in this process. I would also like to remind you that we drew attention to the judgment, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 24 October 2007 in SK 7/06. Today, in the Polish legal system, the experts are ruling, and this must be the case for the marshal, for the judge, for the judge to know, for the jury, and we want to strengthen the participation of citizens in the administration of justice. Don't be afraid of the state of democracy, don't be afraid of the general election, don't be afraid that citizens will decide about citizens' affairs - professionally prepared, directly elected by the local community. These are good solutions. I do not understand these concerns about lack of trust in people or lack of trust in society, and thank you very much to those of you who do not have such doubts. I move to your comments on the call for a calm, substantive debate because the applicant's representative made such an appeal. I am sorry that from this appeal the members of the club have broken out, who have already had speeches not so calmly and not so substantive. On the other hand, I share this view - it was also included in Mr Paszyk's speeches, first on behalf of the club, then as part of the questions - that very close are the projects presented by President Andrzej Duda and by the Polish Coalition. Thank you absolutely very much for seeing these problems like this. I am convinced that, as part of a calm, substantive discussion in the committee, we are also able to agree on certain things, because I reserve that in terms of specific procedural issues or specific elements related to the work on the project, there is absolute openness on our part. I see that looking at these issues or identifying these problems, as you have put it, is common for the Polish Coalition and for the President. Similarly, I see a great deal of consistency when it comes to the diagnosis of the main problems concerning the chronicity of the procedure and the need to improve the situation, in the voice expressed by the Left. I am therefore optimistic about the voices of these two opposition groups that we are able to work and discuss these projects in substance, improving them during the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much for the balanced position presented by the President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights by Marek Ast, saying that this is an initiative expected and that the mandate of the judges of peace is crucial for the legitimacy of democratic judges to build confidence in justice. There have also been issues in your speeches as to whether it should be a single term or whether it is possible for two terms of office. We have indicated one term, and that is why we work in committee to share arguments, to address this in detail and to convince which solutions are most appropriate. Then there were two very emotional speeches, but unfortunately unsubstantiated and inaccurate. I have tried very briefly to say that it is difficult here to point out any grounds for questioning the constitutionality of these solutions. With absolute understanding of the concern for the justice system, I call for cooperation. I mean, I call on the voice of the representative of Mr Myrcha's requests to be taken into account also by you and that we should not talk on the basis of insults or screams, but that we should talk about the problems of the justice system in substance. And I ask you, ladies, to maintain such a format of discussion. As regards further specific questions, a number of questions have been raised about the campaign. There's a corrigendum here, too. As regards the proposed article. 490t of the electoral code - that is within the framework of the introductory provisions - we simply constitute, that is, § 1, I quote: The election campaign of the candidate for a judge is limited to the presentation of the candidate's figure, including the presentation of information about his education, professional experience and social activity, during meetings organised as his own task by the municipalities. Elections of peace judges shall be prohibited for electoral purposes except as provided for in the provisions of this Chapter. This is a very specific campaign. She's not gonna be a campaign like a municipal election or a parliamentary election. We don't want that, and we just ban it in the electoral code. We say that this is actually going to be a presentation of the candidate. This is supposed to be a rivalry, which is that we decide which one of these candidates is the best. People choose the one who gets the most into voters' beliefs with his experience or education or activity. So there will be no political campaign elements here, so this is not the project. Another thing is that there were charges here that there was no limit. There's a limit to that, and the thing to discuss is how we're going to define it in the end. On the other hand, the article. 493u of the electoral code, this proposal, states that in the elections of peace judges, electoral committees may spend up to ten times the minimum wage on the election campaign. A limit has been introduced, we are open to discussion whether it is appropriate or should be lower or narrowed. The campaign will be a public debate in the BIP and possibly provide for the candidate to organise his own debate with the population and make it available on the Internet. On the issue of qualifications - in some speeches it was wrongly said - I was just talking about it. Legal qualifications and experience in lawmaking, law enforcement or legal assistance are required is absolutely the right criterion. As for the issue of remuneration and the issue of costs and the number of judges, first of all, it is not that our law bears any higher costs than it would have been if it were further judicial posts. That is not the case, and we are talking about ordering a very important system, the justice system, about matters that are crucial to people. The compensation of a peace judge shall refer to the remuneration of a district court judge. Today, in the case of the judge of the district court, the basic salary according to my memory is at the level of PLN 10 300. As we add up the other ingredients, the average or average wage with the additions is 15,000. There was a charge here that in the case of the 10,000. zł, we are talking about 80% of the amount plus contributions, there will be no interested lawyers. I think that's a fair wage, which is within the constitutional standard. This remuneration we have foreseen for the judges of peace is a salary at the level of court assessors. And here's the point that Mr Paszyk spoke about this, as I remember it, is the possibility for the assistants of the judge to act. This is included in the explanatory memorandum. We expect assistants to be able to work. We think that this number of 3900 judges is absolutely appropriate to the needs we are talking about. Thank you very much for Mr Sachaika, who spoke very clearly about democracy and citizenship. Yeah, it's a civic project. In fact, Mr Paweł Kukiz, who called this initiative on the President, is in the Chamber. I think anyone who is in favour of citizenship is going to support this project because it gives power to people. Please note, if we are talking about publications in literature, so are the historians of the law, that the fact that the courts of peace had already been limited and eliminated after the May bombing was an expression of authoritarian tendencies which then appeared. We say, on the other hand, that people have the right to decide these matters, to decide them if they are qualified, qualified and socially trusted. This is an absolutely change which the party, which has in its name the word "citizen," should support. At least that's the logic. Issues related to referrals. With this in mind, thank you very much for the voice of the Minister, who spoke about worthy proposals and declared her support in substance. Thank you very much for this support so far and this cooperation within the team to the representative of the Minister of Justice, thank you for these discussions, which we hold as the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland with the Ministry of Justice. One thing. Maybe I'm not gonna straighten her out. I'm just gonna lay it out. These are our proposals for the article. 24b § 3 k.p.k. state that the case returned to the court of peace by another court shall be dealt with by the court of peace until the end of the proceedings, even if new circumstances warrant that it be returned to that court again. There will be no repeated referrals. I must make it clear that this situation on the ground of this project is impossible. If the court of peace refers the case to the district court and the district court returns it, it will no longer be possible for a reassignment to take place. On the other hand, we will absolutely wait for these in-depth analyses and comprehensive comments from the Ministry of Justice, as I said, also from your Members and Clubs. We'll settle them. We consciously excluded these cases from the courts of peace with evidence from the expert's opinion. Like I said, we thought they were to be conducted fairly, insightfully, but also quickly. If he's expert, it'll be months if not years. Hence our decision to refer these offences, these minor cases directly to the courts of peace and thus relieve the entire justice system. We can talk about vacathio legis. I do not see any contradictions between these projects and these announcements of changes as regards the Law on the System of Universal Courts. If such changes occur, we will be in dialogue. It will be absolutely necessary under the transitional rules to adapt it to this structure, but I will remind you that it was Minister Zbigniew Ziobro in March this year, publicly speaking, saying that he was behind the courts of peace, talking about how much hope he had for this project, so I do not think that any contradiction could exist here. These are good proposals, these are thought out proposals that we want to work on. I ask for such a fair, substantive attention (the bell) because citizens are waiting for these changes to enter into force so that we can move from words to actions so that this becomes the law in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Let me put it this way: it's nice to hear from the representative's mouth, you can say, the protest camp condemning the May bombing in 1926. [[Social Advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: There was no condemnation, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Applause]] But, in fact, after the May bombing, the courts of peace were largely limited. It's de facto a damnation. I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Arkadius... Excuse me, Marshal Dolnyak wanted to correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u79	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much for giving me the floor as a correction, because the Minister said that our speeches as representatives of the Civic Coalition club were only emotional and not substantive. I guess the minister didn't listen, 'cause we've been calling ourselves up. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 179 Constitution, which absolutely does not provide for a term of office in the case of judges. We talked about the fact that, contrary to your claim that you have made regulations, that elections will be universal and direct, they will not be. We were talking about art. 3, Article 20 and Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 21 draft law on judges of Aren't these examples of a substantive discussion? We talked about the fact that a candidate for a judge of peace may be a person who belongs to a political party, which is unacceptable in the case of judges or assesors in common courts, because there is no such possibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please do not accuse us of emotional discussion, although it is difficult not to be emotional, Minister, how you listen to such statements. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would ask Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha to take his stand on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u81	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. Minister Fly! I am deeply moved by your concern to ensure that citizens have a voice in the judiciary. Such a direct emanation of the article. 182 of the Constitution is an institution of jurors, who are just a social ear, social advisors to a professional judge. Maybe you don't know that. Maybe since you're on the supervisory board of the PZU, you haven't followed the current policy, and you don't know that it's your political environment that has consistently limited the involvement of jurors in ruling in common courts. [[Social Advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Who brought them to the Supreme Court?]] Excuse me? [[Social Advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Who introduced them to the Supreme Court? President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda.]] I'm talking about the courts, Mr... Minister, I didn't limit your time. Now the applicant's representative has the floor. The law and justice community has removed jurors from the courts, limited their participation in the ruling to an extreme minimum. A few months ago, the Civic Coalition submitted a draft law to the Marshal's staff to restore the participation of jurors to court formations, for example in civil matters, opening up the participation of citizens in formations of judges in local courts, the smaller ones. Today we are also discussing our bill prepared with judges, lawyers, NGOs, increasing citizens' participation in the ruling. This is the participation of citizens who have democratic legitimacy, because it comes from choice, from people who are self-government. So please do not accuse us that we are afraid of the social factor, the civil factor in the general court, because we are - I have the impression - the only political force that has consistently sought for years to make the most social factor common in the judiciary. I refer to your undersecretary from the Ministry of Justice. I have the indisputable impression that your critical speech was prepared before my speech - which is worse, I don't think he was preceded by a thorough reading of the bill on citizens' commercial judges and a revision of some other laws. I will take the first on the side of the charge that you referred to this project from the Parliamentary Speaker concerning who would assess the preparation of candidates to serve as a civil judge. I said in my speech that this is to be done in a very transparent selection process carried out by the committee, which will include both councillors of the Sejmik and a representative of the district court to which the trade judges will be referred. This will also be done, of course, in an optional way, by representatives of non-governmental organisations whose statutory objective is to develop economic life. So there is a wide, diverse group that could assess professionalism, experience, knowledge of candidates applying for a civil judge's office. I refer to the question of Mr Arthur Dziambor - if I remember correctly - for the remuneration, for the financing of the citizens' commercial judges. In the draft law, we have adopted an assumption similar to solutions that concern the remuneration of jurors, i.e. the daily diet system as a form of social function. Of course, it is set at a percentage of the basic salary of the judges. In the case of jury cases - if I remember correctly - this is 2.64% basic salary, which gives a total amount, for a daily ruling of about PLN 120.130, plus, of course, it is possible to obtain reimbursement of the costs of travel to the seat of the court. It is our intention that the citizens' trade judges should not give up their professional activities. It's supposed to be an honorary social function. It is also intended to be an addition to the current activity, because they are people locally trustworthy. But in order not to strain the justice budget too much, there is a limit on cases in which commercial judges should rule during their term of office. It is set at 20 proceedings and it is possible to increase the number of cases to 30 at the request of the judge. The first year of operation of the new institution would probably allow for a more reliable description of the extent to which this would burden the budget. We'll know how much interest there is in how many proceedings they would actually take, but I'd be calm. I believe that, even in the maximum version, this will not be a burden on part of the justice system of the state budget. Certainly not to the extent that the general judicial system could not handle. Thank you for all the positive votes in the bill introducing citizens' commercial judges. This is - as I said - a new and courageous solution, but above all it is a solution that falls within the framework of the current basic law. Art. 182 clearly states that citizens, this social factor, are to participate in the justice system and not take over it. We therefore assume that citizens' trade judges will be the consultative voice, the social ear of a professional judge who knows about the trial, knows about procedures, matters and guarantees the reliability of the settlement and conduct of the entire judicial proceedings. We believe that the solution that has been prepared, as I said before, among the experts coming from the environments that are deeply interested in this solution, will actually improve the real economic behaviour and, most importantly, increase confidence in the judgments that are taking place in economic matters. This is a key challenge for all representatives of political forces, for all those who rule both now and in the years to come: rebuilding or increasing confidence in justice, in the judiciary. And that's what citizens do. You can't fire a baby with a bath. We have to change the judiciary boldly, as I said, but not in a crazy way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u82	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the applicants. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak with another representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Shortly, because only in one narrow range I feel called upon to respond by the participants of the debate, which took place, among others. on the project of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, namely the constitutional aspect of the changes made concerning the courts of peace and judges of peace. By creating our regulation, we relied on the wording of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 the Constitution, which provides that the exercise of justice is reserved for, first, the Supreme Court, second, the universal courts, administrative courts and military courts. That is why we have proposed that the courts of peace should be the fourth, next to the regional courts, the district courts and appeals courts, an element of the general court situated in this hierarchy provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So we do not believe that there is a possible charge here that there is any conflict with the wording of the Constitution, and that there is a need to amend the constitution before the establishment of the courts of peace and the judges of peace, going further in favour of the votes of some of the participants in this debate. I would like to make this clear before the High House. I would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the Members represented, who have tabled a draft law on the courts of peace, for today's substantive discussion, as per the standards of the last months or years in this House, in which, nevertheless, the voices of concern for improving the functioning of justice in Poland, for making it more accessible, cheaper for citizens and citizens. As I mentioned, our project was created - and here I am facing Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski - during a long, comprehensive consultation with various circles, associations representing also those who have been affected by the justice system functioning in today's state of affairs. I think that this debate is an important step towards change, to healing the justice system, and I would like to thank you very warmly from this point on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for your kind words, too. Is there a representative of the applicants Anna Maria Żukowska? There it is. Well, then, come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna allow myself a little digression, because it was really important to see your marshal about the time of his sanation. The representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, the President, Minister Mucha, said very clearly that authoritarian clans appeared during this period. This memento should stay with us in this House for a long time. Perhaps we should lean on him on another occasion, but we should keep this in mind. Turning to the point, on the issue of the laws we are discussing today, I would like to say that I believe that all these laws, as I have already said, should be addressed to the work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, because they come together from such a belief that Article. 182 Constitutions on the involvement of citizens in the administration of justice are not sufficiently implemented. There was also talk about the need to fight the chronicity of proceedings, which is a great problem of the Polish justice system, which has been observed for many years, and unfortunately nothing has happened in this case - also during the 6 years of rule of law and justice - has not improved, and in some aspects, some things have even worsened. Therefore, the purpose of these laws is clear, but they differ in several aspects. As for the Left project, which I have the honour of being an applicant, we have one thing to explain. The term: the judges of peace, however linguisticly it sounds, is not in our opinion identical in the interpretational sense, legal meaning with the term: the judge. A judge of peace is not a judge. Therefore, this is not an issue which would in any way violate the Constitution, because judges are not court assistants as well. According to Art. 2 Laws on the system of common courts The court's assistants may fulfil certain elements of the judicial system entrusted to them in a limited form. As far as these judicial tasks are concerned, certain categories of cases have obviously been excluded. Our project, of course, disabled them as well. It is well known that cases which are reserved to be dealt with by certain courts will not be dealt with by the judges of peace. Therefore, I do not see the need to change the constitution here. I already told you that. The reservations were also reported by representatives of the Civic Coalition. Interestingly, they did not report them to their project, according to which they would also be entrusted with the exercise of this justice to commercial judges. Here, too, the term "Judge" appears, and as we know, this commercial judge would not be a judge within the constitutional meaning. And going further, I'm going to say that the next thing I know, it's a matter of bi-instantity. This duality in the Left project is preserved as much as possible, because the judgment of the judge of peace can be challenged. This action has a nullifying dimension to this ruling. As a court of first instance, the district court would then rule, so this duality would be preserved as much as possible. And just like we have, among other things. Marshal Dolniak's mentioned mediation... This is also part of the justice system. Your marshal did not oppose the constitutionality of this solution. In cases where this mediation does not have any effect, it is, of course, possible to refer the matter to a regular general court. It would be the same in terms of our project if there was an objection. There was a question of the cost of implementing these projects. Our solution, the solution proposed by the Left, is in this dimension, I think, the most economical. That cost we're expecting... Firstly, it would be expenditure from the state budget, from the budgetary section: Universal courts. It's obvious. As I said, this court of peace would not function as a separate institution. He'd be working as much as possible within the district courthouse. We predict that in the first two years after the entry into force of the Act the cost would be PLN 23 million per year, and since the third year when it would enter the whole country - PLN 144 million per year. On the other hand, the estimated cost of the entry into force of the bill of President Andrzej Duda is PLN 300 million. Just to illustrate the scale of these expenses, I will remind you of the so-called. envelope choices that didn't happen. The cost of these elections was PLN 80 million. 300 million PLN per year is a lot. I'm sure this is due to the level of saturation when it comes to peace judges in the country. I mean, according to the president's project, there'd be a lot more of them than ours. The staff would look different, too. In the Left Project, we propose that this service simply be conducted in the district court. It is the district court that would provide administrative and office services to the judges of peace. With regard to these reservations, which also had a representative of the Ministry of Justice - that this is allegedly unconstitutional - I would like to point out once again that the term 'Judge of Peace' is not the same as 'Judge of Justice', just as 'Judge of Justice' is not the same as 'Judge of Justice'. Therefore, there is absolutely no need to amend the Constitution. This part of the justice system can be entrusted to citizens, representatives of citizens, in a selection procedure. This is already a controversial issue for us with regard to the presidential proposal, these universal elections. Firstly, as I said, the costs of these elections would be very high. The neo-KRS element is very controversial for us. All these elections, which would be universal, would not really be direct, would be indirect, because they would later be subject to the approval of the neo-KRS and would require the appointment of the President. In our proposal, it stays at the level of the district court. It is the chairman of the regional court who appoints the judges of peace elected by the council of the municipality, i.e. by representatives elected in the general election, the councillors of the municipality who would submit two nominations, as I have already said, to be elected by the general assembly of the district court concerned. Finally, I call for these projects to be examined calmly during the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Of course, I do not hide that, in our view, the most constitutional, non-controversial project is the project of the coalition club of the Left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u86	Thank you very much to Annie Maria Żukowska for presenting the position of the applicants, or actually her club. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u87	The previous bill on Peace Courts by the Ministry of Justice pointed to the need for amendments to the Constitution and the need to introduce institutions of Peace Judges. In the explanatory memorandum of the latest proposal of this type He doesn't show up anymore. In addition, we have recently learned the concepts of the justice reform of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. How does this institution and this change relate to changes in the Ministry of Justice? At the same time, the project assumes a low level of competence for peace judges compared to common court judges. Such an assumption could be supported by the introduction of a professional assistant judge. Will such changes be made?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u88	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to Parliament's draft laws: on citizens' commercial judges and on the amendment of certain other laws, contained in print No. 1378, on the courts of peace and on the amendment of certain other laws, contained in print No. 1762, on the courts of peace, contained in print No. 1763 and 1763-A, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 1760 and 1761 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (print No 1795). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposal for a law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws contains solutions whose main objective is to implement the three EU directives on excise duty, namely the horizontal directive, the alcohol directive and the defence directive. The most important changes introduced in the project are primarily the electronicisation of intra-EU movements of excise goods with excise duties paid, subjecting them to monitoring through the EMCS system. Such movement is currently documented in paper form. This is an important change of a sealing and improving trade in excise goods. Finally, the introduction of tax preferences in Poland for small independent producers of alcoholic beverages is a very important change, expected by the market and repeatedly advocated by entrepreneurs. It consists in reducing the basic excise duty by 50%, i.e. by half, as well as adding the definition of a small independent producer to the Act and introducing a certification system that will enable the use of this preference. At present, this preference applies only to beer. These changes will facilitate the business and business development of small local producers of alcoholic beverages, including family businesses. Thanks to this we will support small business and Made in Poland products, which will benefit Polish farmers and fruit plants, mainly wine producers, drinking honeys and regional vodka. This is very important information for more than 150 Polish vineyards, for a dozen producers of cider, perry and drinking honey, but also for 62 thousand. Polish Sadists, who may be interested in processing their fruits into good Polish regional products. Other amendments contained in the proposed proposed law include, inter alia, flexibility of distance selling of excise goods with excise duty paid in another country and intended for the consumer. In such a case, the seller sending the products from another Member State will also be able to settle the excise duty directly within the territory of the country without having to use the intermediary. The Act also includes simplifications in the field of excise securities. It will be allowed, for example. the use of one collateral collectively for all activities of an entity with different excise status. The entry into force of these solutions, due to the reduction of administrative burdens, the implementation of a whole range of simplifications, but also tax reductions, as well as these new electrocuting solutions, will have a positive impact on the state budget, but above all on entrepreneurs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. So I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Eve Szymańska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u91	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the excise duty law and certain other laws presented by the Government is intended to implement European Union law. The draft contains provisions implementing several directives, including: Directive of the Council of the European Union of 2017, of 2019 as well as of 2008 as well as two Directives of 2020. At the same time, the amendments concern the Act of 15 February 1992 on corporate income tax, the Act on toll motorways and the National Road Fund, the 1999 Tax Code, the 2004 Tax Act on goods and services and the 2021 Act on the amendment of the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws. Three of these directives should be implemented in our right until 31 December of this year, and one of them should be implemented by 30 June next year. The proposed bill provides for, among others, the following amendments: in the Excise Tax Act, the deadline for the complete electronicisation of records and other documentation until 1 January 2023, the clarification of the submission of quarterly declarations on products exempt from excise duty and the zero rate, the deadline for the granting of new competences of the Commercial Inspection, which is linked to the European Commission's planned amendments, as well as the conditions for exemption from excise duties for coal products constituting a coal depot, changes in excise duties on fuel oils, coal, coke, natural gas and other fuel fuels. The proposed changes in excise duty also concern the measurement of Plato in beer, the updating of sparkling wine and sparkling drinks codes, the certification of small independent producers of alcoholic beverages, the clarification of excise exemptions for contaminated alcohol used in the manufacture of medicines, and, as the Minister has already mentioned, the reduction by 50% excise duty on certain alcoholic beverages. It is also envisaged that excise goods to be used by the armed forces of a Member State of the European Union shall be exempt from excise duty when these forces are involved in defence activities carried out in order to fulfil the tasks of the European Union under the common security and defence policy. The amendments to the VAT Act also implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the so-called. fast VAT by adapting provisions to EU law. By generalising, the proposed rules adapt national rights to European Union law, clarify and simplify them, and introduce changes to facilitate work and activities for both taxpayers and authorities applying and controlling the rules. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the Law and Justice continue to proceed on this project and that it be adopted by the High House in a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u92	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u93	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This project aims to implement and introduce into national law legislation that has been approved at European Union level. A lot has been said about what this is going to be about, so let me not refer to it at all. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to some of the key issues that arise from this project. The first point is that this project introduces some kind of tax preferences for small independent producers of alcoholic beverages. Both farmers and seedlings can benefit from these proposed changes. This should be highlighted as an important and beneficial action, which also results from the implementation of these provisions. And these rules, the rules that make it easier, are about reducing it to 50%. the basic excise duty. It is also important that this project adds provisions that clearly define a small independent producer and introduce a specially dedicated certification system for this business group. This should be seen as a step towards appreciating those people who are self-employed and, on the other hand, are not big producers, they don't have big factories, but they do it on a smaller scale. This is case one. The second point is that, at present, the movement of excise goods released for consumption within the European Union, i.e. those not covered by the excise duty suspension procedure, is carried out on the basis of the so-called. a simplified accompanying document. This document has a paper form. The draft law simplifies these rules for the submission of the necessary documents and introduces the electronicisation of intra-EU movements of excise goods with excise duties paid by covering these movements by means of a special system. This is also very important from this point of view. Thirdly, the project also includes solutions aimed primarily at making the sale of excise goods more flexible at a distance. Thanks to these solutions, the seller who sends products from another Member State will also be able to account directly for excise duties in the territory of the country, which can be simply a procedural facilitation for him. Therefore, this should be noted. However, in abstraction from the provisions that have been made here, and referring to excise duties and taxes that you impose on citizens, I would like to draw attention to a point. Very much recently, the government is talking about how it wants to reduce excise duty - it is talking about electricity, it is talking about fuels - and I would like to point out that also in this law or in this project there is a certain important objective, i.e. the adjustment of the applicable excise duty rates, of course, to certain energy products, to the euro rate, which is rising to 4,58 in relation to the Polish gold, because the corresponding EU levels need to be maintained. A change in rates for certain products will therefore be introduced. And so on. fuel oil - excise increase from 64 to 69 PLN per 1000 kg, coal and coke - excise increase from 1.28 PLN to 1.38 PLN per GJ, natural gas - excise increase from 1.28 PLN to 1.38 PLN. What does that tell you? Of course, the need to adapt to the euro, but it must also be made clear that this is due to the depreciation of the gold which is weaker than the euro. And what was the cause of this? One of the reasons was the deliberate intervention in the currency market, which was undertaken by the National Bank of Poland in order to reduce the value of the gold. Unfortunately, today consumers will pay for this, because these rates will simply be higher. Moreover, Minister - this is also a remark to the government - you have recently raised excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes, and this is at a time difficult for the Polish economy. It must be made clear here that the consequence of the continuing pandemic that we are dealing with is simply the drastic rise in prices and a series of successive increases, in total the highest of those that have occurred in the last 20 years. So this highest inflation for the last month is almost 8%. (The bell) and these huge increases in electricity costs are, of course, a heavy burden that Polish entrepreneurs must bear. Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done - let me have two more sentences literally. So according to these calculations, excise duty, according to your assumptions, is to bring an additional PLN 2 billion to the budget in the new year. In the course of the decade, it is to be about PLN 100 billion. So that's the truth about the tax cuts you're introducing. I'm still referring to an increase in excise duty on alcohol. I think - I don't know if the government is paying attention to this, but I think it should - that the rise in alcohol prices could be a kind of gift for criminal groups who are interested in increasing their profits without tax obligations that should be paid to the State. So legal sales can simply shrink, which in turn threatens many companies, but also agriculture. The demand for cheaper alcohol can be quickly managed by so-called. A gray area, and that's what we'd like to avoid. So, Minister, on the one hand, we are talking about important legislation and the fact that excise duty is being reduced, but on the other hand, there are a number of actions that show and show that it is completely different. On the other hand, we are in favour of this project implementing EU rules going to the second reading of the subcommittee that will deal with it, and we will continue to work on it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u94	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Mark Rutka, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u95	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft submitted is another example of the fact that the current authority very often treats the High House as a voting machine, not as a place of reliable legislation, in which the right to which the citizen has confidence and conviction arises. Although the Council of Ministers adopted this draft excise novel on 23 November, it was only on 29 November that the draft reached the Sejm and at an express pace, it was still addressed to first reading on the same day. It is worth adding that this is not a modest document, but a 53-page legal act with a 82-page justification. The flagship of the draft excise novel was and is the implementation of the Council of the European Union Directive of 19 December 2019 in the national legal order. The proposed changes are also due to the fact that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland has left the European Union as of 1 February 2020. Due to the revision of the new excise legislation of the horizontal directive, the currently simplified paper accompanying documents are to be electronicised. However, it is not entirely clear what is the reason why Polish eUDTs in the draft excise amendment from English are called e-SADs, but maybe it is a rush effect to which we are accustomed in the High House. Of course, it should be stressed that the new model of intra-Community acquisitions brings much more far-reaching changes in the model of conduct than merely the above mentioned one. electronicisation of accompanying documents. As a change to a plus, it should be assumed that, thanks to the provisions of the comments of the excise amendment, traders will finally be able to import excise goods directly into the tax warehouse once the specific conditions have been met. The new legislation also facilitates the distance trade of excise products, which, in view of the dynamic development of this industry, not only caused by the pandemic, should be adopted as a positive change. The proposed amendments are also intended to seal the trade in excise products with regard to the requirements of the Law on sobriety education. The new regulations also contain rules which standardise the area of excise duty refund. This is a change that the industry has been talking about for a long time, but has not been implemented. Finally, the project has long been expected by the industry to reduce the rate of excise duty for small producers of alcoholic beverages. These provisions introduce the possibility of applying a 50% reduction in the rate of excise duty compared to the basic rates, inter alia. wine produced by a small wine producer, fermented beverages produced by a small producer of fermented beverages and intermediate products produced by small operators. New competences of the Trade Inspection were also included in the project under the Act of 25 August 2006 on the monitoring and control of the quality of fuels. The change is due to the fact that the European Commission is planning to introduce a new Euromarker from 1 January 2023. The novel contains provisions extending the existence of paper excise records, although, on the other hand, it must be admitted that they were preserved only in case of emergency, because the records are also in the novel with increases in rates. This amendment regulates cases of refund of existing excise marks and the validity of those marks applied to individual packages of excise goods following the introduction of a new model of excise marks where the Minister introduces a transitional period for the application of the existing excise marks. This change, on the plus side, will make it easier for businesses to do business. In view of the above mentioned issues of the legal act in question, the Left Club is considering supporting the bill submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u96	Thank you very much, sir. Now I invite you to the speaker of Mr Czesław Siekierski, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u97	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry to barge in on you at the last minute, but we listened to you in the public finance committee... Mr President, much worse intrusions have already been experienced by this speaker. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We voted on the budget in the Committee on Public Finance and we just finished the vote. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed regulation aims to harmonise excise and customs procedures in connection with the entry into force of the Union Customs Code and to introduce a new category of operators. The project also introduces the electronicisation of intra-EU movements of excise goods with excise duty paid... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Can you ask your colleagues to mute the discussion? ...by covering these premises with an EMCS computer-based monitoring system. In addition, solutions have been written to make the possibility of selling excise goods at a distance more flexible. Entries introduced since 2022 are important for small wine producers but also fermented beverages, e.g. Cider for which these drinks will be reduced excise duty. It is good that we have taken this up and Poland joins these solutions. Finally, the size has also been defined, e.g. What a small producer means. These are solutions which in some way over the next years will sort out whether they will give certain preferences for the development of small companies in the field of regional products, which are increasingly popular in Poland and are an important form of additional income for small producers, including small farms, because winemaking is growing, mainly in small plants, in small farms. As you know, Poland has been a major producer of alcohol in the past. Of course, things have changed here because many distilleries have been eliminated, but we are still one of the largest producers in the Union and the fourth in the world in terms of vodka production. This is a form of processed product that gives higher benefits on the market. I was talking about the increase in wine-growing production, the increase in wine production, the fact that this is not only a fashionable area, but this is also an area that requires some new legal, financial tooling to enable the development of this sector, which is becoming popular, but also important for the development of tourism, for the development of agrotourism and is an important form of processing opportunities mainly for fruit producers. Although the production of cider has decreased after a time of a boom, it is a result of serious competition, even powerful, from beer. There's an excise problem here, too. Taste beers appear. It can therefore be said that these changes that are taking place also have an element related to change, climate change. We know what we are doing to reduce climate change. But there are also new varieties that allow, in part, less suitable for wine-growing in terms of climate issues... Right now, this crop is moving, you can say, a little northerly. These are therefore necessary and targeted solutions. I think they're gonna get all the legal and administrative equipment in order. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u98	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoñ, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u99	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law on amending the excise duty law and certain other laws presented by the government aims to implement the provisions of European law into the Polish system of law. In particular, it provides for the implementation of directives of the Council of the European Union 2017/952, 2019/2235, 2020/262 and 2020/1151. The main de facto objective of all these solutions is to simplify and electronicise the excise process or to improve the monitoring of trade in excise goods and facilitate the sale of excise goods at a distance. The project also provides for tax preferences for smaller manufacturers of these products. By adopting the proposed solutions, including those resulting from the horizontal directive, it will be possible to guarantee the free movement of excise goods and at the same time the correct collection of excise duties by the Member States. For these reasons, the amendments provide for a number of regulations concerning inter alia. the subject of taxation, taxpayers, losses, exemptions, turnover and issues related to the application of the MCS. What is important, here the attention to the ministry, the deadline for implementing three of these four directives is 31 December this year and it is really incomprehensible, Minister, for which the government has delayed until the last minute to present these solutions. Well, that's a very negative assessment. However, we have no doubt that these regulations should be dealt with. I therefore request that the draft be sent to the committee in order to discuss the proposed solutions in detail. However, ladies and gentlemen, while proceeding on this project, which is intended to improve the issue of excise duty, we can see how the government and irresponsible activities of the President of the National Bank of Poland, who consciously acts for the depreciation of gold, harm citizens. In the draft law, the government predicted an increase in excise duty on fuel oil, coal, coke and natural gas, i.e. de facto heating. Importantly, the government wants to raise excise duty rates on heating before the heating period. It's obviously gonna hit the citizens. Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum, the government refers to issues related to the minimum level of excise duty related to the euro rate and that it should be updated. However, the depreciation of the gold was very strongly supported by the government, and the President of the National Bank of Poland Mr.Glapiński. Minister! At a time of crazy expensive, very high inflation (the bell) reaching up to 8% The increase in fuel taxes just before winter will hit people. This is all the more surprising because the government has been talking a lot lately about the fact that heating prices should be lowered, so today, Minister, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we demand that Poland 2050 projects be proceded, which will protect Poles from expensive costs, and that the government has presented laws about which the Prime Minister has spoken so much, and still talks about, and there are still no concrete actions. We're waiting, Minister, and we're very negative about raising fuel taxes before the winter season. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u100	Thank you very much, sir. That's where we ended our club appearances. I'm opening up a list of people who are enrolled in the question. Would any of you like to join us? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, I.]] You're still an MP. Good. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk. [[The last one will be Adamczyk.]] I see. In that case, Mr Jan Szopiński now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill was designed, believing in the words of the authors, in order to simplify procedures. I would like to ask you what is the purpose of the annulment of the excise duty numbers granted to taxable persons that are entitled to intra-Community acquisitions. Is the tax office there really is no other activity than guarding, who and when has made such a purchase, and the legislator is convinced that the taxpayer has no more urgent responsibilities than guarding, did the last purchase take place 360 or was it 365 days ago? What is this bureaucracy supposed to do? What prevented such numbers from being allocated in a manner identical to the NIP numbers, i.e. once over the entire period of activity? I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u102	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk. He's still gone. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I want to ask you a question about two things. The first thing is the increase in fuel prices that the government has put forward in this bill. It is indeed astonishing that, at a time of crazy cost, in a time of so high inflation, in a time of very high exchange rates and very low values of our national currency, for which the government is responsible - your government, Minister - and President Glapiński, the state translates excise increases to fuel that the euro rate is high. This country is responsible for this, the government is responsible for this, and President Glapiński is responsible for this. It would be a good idea, Minister, to come here and apologize to the citizens for acting against them all the time. You act specifically to make the gold lose, and the result is increases, among others. fuel prices. And the second question, Minister, is this omission, which we all see, which is such a late performance (the bell) of the billing projects. Why didn't you do it before? Why at the last minute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u104	Thank you very much. Is Mr Michael Szczerba in the room? I can't see. The question will therefore be asked by Janusz Silchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to draw attention to the detailed VAT solution, and in fact to the ECJ judgment and the attempt to correct the rules of the game as regards the tax on goods and services. In such a formula and in such content this provision will be very easy to circumvent. Unfair operators will transport fuel for which they will not issue invoices, aiming especially at the transport of left fuel at the beginning of the month, and then there will be no reason to require payment of the tax until the 16th day of the following month. In the meantime, the fuel will melt, it will be sold, e.g. in storage. Today's point of this provision is that the physical control of the KAS, located at the border, can take over transport at any time if the tax was not paid at the moment of its entry into Poland. If you modify this provision as you propose, the carrier will maintain that there is no invoice because it has not been issued and can issue it by the 15th of next month. Technically, it's okay, but really, the fuel could melt away. And there's one more thing. In my opinion, you did not draw any attention to the Ombudsman's opinion on this decision of the TSUE. There is a great risk that the TSUE's reaction will be in such a way, because you have looked at it unilaterally, you have not taken into account the question of the calculation of the tax on the amount on which you collect the tax, and this is what the Ombudsman draws attention to. It's gotta be fixed. You don't have much time, so maybe a little while, but I think it's important, given the tightness of the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u106	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u107	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We've been dealing with the highest inflation in over 20 years. This month, the price increase was almost 8%. This is a situation that hits consumers' portfolios very hard, especially before Christmas. We have a very crisis situation. Meanwhile, actions which, for example, implement the National Bank of Poland, weakening the Polish currency, increase excise duty on fuel oils, coal, coke, natural gas, because it is necessary to clarify the rates to the euro rate and the gold is in a very poor condition. And now the fundamental question, Minister: How are you prepared for this at all? Have you considered these decisions before, and are there any measures in place that are designed to weaken the dynamics of inflation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have introduced a number of new taxes and charges that have further contributed to the rise in prices and services that citizens pay for each day. Although you are announcing further reductions in excise duty, it is clear from this document that in other places this excise duty is increasing, which, of course, will hit the pockets of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u108	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The novel assumes e.g. tax preferences for small independent producers of alcoholic beverages. Winemakers and ciders called for this solution. The contested law adapts Polish legislation to the EU excise duty directives. As the largest apple producer in the European Union and third largest in the world, we should exploit the potential of our producers and introduce solutions to support small business and products produced in Poland. You've been in charge for six years. Why haven't you introduced such rules before? This would help domestic producers, but instead you preferred to raise your excise duty year by year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Recently for alcohol, cigarettes, fuel oil, coal, gas. You don't care about Poles. All you want to do is keep raising your excise duty, and you're hoping for as much more revenue as possible to the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u110	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! This law, as is justified, is an implementation of Union law, but is also intended to simplify certain procedures. It follows from the justification that this draft law was consulted by 22 entities, five proposals were taken into account, two proposals were partially taken into account. I would kindly ask for a written reply, which is a consequence of this consultation and which has been partially taken into account. Secondly, the Act introduces a certificate of a small wine and fermented beverage trader. Yesterday, we were discussing the Wine Products Act, there's a definition: a small wine producer. I wanted to ask you how these two definitions fit together. I'm asking you kindly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to reply in writing on this matter, after a thorough analysis of that provision and introduced today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u112	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Adam Szłapka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Irresponsible government policy and politicized National Bank of Poland led to the situation that inflation in Poland has been highest for 20 years. This is going to be the most expensive Christmas in years. Poles, when shopping, feel price increases every day. Therefore, I have a question - and I ask you to answer in writing, to present the studies in writing, because I understand that the Ministry of Finance has such an in-depth study - like these changes concerning excise duties, but also all those that have been introduced in the last 2 months will affect inflation levels in Poland, which, I repeat, has been the highest in more than 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u114	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Wojciech Saluga.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u115	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2014, President Putin entered the embargo on imports of Polish apples and then boom on cider began. It has been said that this will be our national good that we will support, and we will therefore oppose President Putin's hostile actions. After six years, we have a butchered cider market, so charged with excise duty and with a state policy so that it cannot develop. From year to year we have a decrease in sales. You're finally doing, I'd say, some kind of bow towards the producers, but small, small. I have a question, Minister, about what percentage of these cider producers will cover the lower excise duty, and how much of them will continue to be charged with such a racket that the most normal cider in the world will not be profitable to continue buying, even though good, even though our (Dawn) even though the Polish one, which you are trying so hard for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u116	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Czesław Aekierski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u117	Although I had already spoken, I wanted to ask - I did not carefully examine - what changes you expect on the market. What results will the solutions put in place? What are the benefits for the budget on the one hand and for the producers on the other? I mean, in this case, also about producers of raw material, i.e. small farmers, because we still have a problem with ensuring income stability for owners of small farms. This is extremely important, as you know. In Poland, small farms dominate, which have a different production structure than small farms in Western Europe or in the South. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that this change, also with regard to new areas: wine growing, cider production, etc., may be an alternative to development in order to improve the profitability of small farms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u118	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska. And to Janusz Korwin-Mikke: it is possible to ask a question through... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I will approach. Thank you.]] Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's a basic question. The Prime Minister has been announcing a great tax reduction for many days, among others. currently in the case of electricity, gas and petrol, speaking of excise duty and VAT, for a quarter unfortunately. Today we are investigating a law in which among others. The gas excise is supposed to go up. So what's it like, after all? 'Cause it looks like you're gonna want to reduce the excise duty on the firepower for a quarter so you can permanently increase it. You justify it by weakening the golden one. But the effect of the weakening of our currency is a policy applied by the central bank and the President of Glapiński. The question is why the permanent weakening of the gold, to which President Glapiński confessed many times in interviews, is to pay Poles today. Please clarify (the bell) those doubts that arise around your energy policy for the coming months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u120	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u121	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you. Yesterday we adopted, all the clubs supported a reduction in taxes from small producers, today we are to vote on a further reduction, forced by the Union, then we are to have an increase in excise duty, and in a few days the government is submitting a new package of laws, where excise duty will be reduced. I wanted to say, isn't this just crazy? You really can't... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is crazy, isn't it? Wouldn't it really be possible to process it normally, that is - in short - to determine that the producer is a producer, pays tax, and doesn't care who's small, who's medium, who's big, just simply set taxes once and for all, because the worst are constant changes, for producers the worst are constant tax changes. People don't know whether to switch from cider to wine, wine to vodka or fruit juice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not the way to conduct politics and change things all the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u122	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Artur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a little Schrödinger's entry. It's an hour. 13.07 and at this very moment we are discussing a bill to reduce excise duty, to facilitate bureaucracy. It is an EU directive, it must be fulfilled at some point, and today at hours. 14, which is only 53 minutes from now, we will vote on the bill coming back from the Senate to increase excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol. So, ladies and gentlemen... And next week we have a session of the Sejm, where we will discuss how the world will look beautiful after the introduction of the so-called. an anti-inflationary shield, which everyone agrees will be pro-inflationary, of course, outside the law and justice team. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why? Let us go this way, let us now vote on this bill, which we are talking about at this point, which we all agree on, as Mr Korwin-Mikke said here, and then reject the increase in excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol - it will be a vote in 52 minutes (the bell) - and then we will reject what is ruining your anti-inflationary shield. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u124	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I now ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to refer to questions and club speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to clarify the question of proceeding over this law. Here it is difficult to talk about the surprise of the market for entrepreneurs or producers, because the changes to the directive, those to be implemented, were already known at the beginning of this year. On 12 May we received an entry on the list of government work, and since June the law was in public consultation, so that the content of the solutions introduced, especially in the vast majority of positive ones, is known to entrepreneurs, farmers, all interested. Why are we introducing a reduction just now? First of all, because the Directive has only started to allow this since January 2021. At the moment when the directive changed, we immediately started legislative work and we are now at the end of it. How many operators, how many cider producers will cover the reduction? All working in Poland? Now, in terms of cider, perry and pot honey, we are dealing with 10 producers who carry out this type of activity. There have been a lot of questions here about raising excise duties on natural gas and coal. I would like to stress that the changes to the rules are purely formal because Poland has implemented 100% the possibility of exemptions from this tax, which the Directive allows. Thus, natural gas is exempt from excise duty for the purposes of domestic heating, public administration, armed forces, education system operators, nursery, children's clubs, medical agents and organizational units of social assistance and the organisation of public benefit activities, as well as entrepreneurs for the production of heat and electricity, in agricultural and horticultural works, in fish farming, used by energy-intensive plants using gas products. So, ladies and gentlemen, these exemptions concern natural gas and coal. It is very difficult even to determine the number of entities that will be affected by this change in legislation. This is also why we did not foresee any additional budgetary revenue in the impact assessment for this particular amendment to the law. So that it is very difficult here to talk about any inconsistencies between the solutions currently being examined under certain requirements of EU law and the general government's strategy for excise reductions. This raise won't be critical here at any point. As regards the implementation of the changes in the tax on goods and services in the implementation of the judgment of the TSUE, I would like to stress very strongly that the changes we are implementing are in line with the judgment and implement its content. Their implementation while maintaining synergies with other implemented sealing solutions, such as split payment mechanism or SENT, which is our monitoring tool also with the help of GPS fuel transport, will lead to no risk of fragmentation. At the same time, taking into account the very good results of the implementation of the fuel package in 2016. In response to the judgment of the TSUE, Poland submitted a derogation request for Poland to continue the application of the current rapid VAT payment for the import of fuels. We look forward to the Commission's positive response in this regard, the more that it is a change that is beneficial to entrepreneurs and very much needed, leading to greater market security, as well as very widely praised by entrepreneurs and in 2016 and now, during the process of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws contained in print No. 1795, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 8 December 2021. High Izbo! We've got some time to vote, so I'm gonna call it an hour. 14. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 12 h 14 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1817. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Excise Tax Act and the Retail Tax Act, in print No 1811. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1802 and 1801 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on the amendment of the law - Road traffic law and certain other laws, - amending the excise duty law and the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, - amending the law - Energy law, - amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure, - compensation for persons entitled to early retirement in respect of care for children requiring permanent care, - amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, - to support the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, - having specific rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. The reports shall be printed in 1794, 1807, 1800, 1815, 1805, 1804, 1798 and 1816 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Yesterday we discussed in this plenary room a draft law on voluntary firefighters. We all know that firefighters and volunteer buddies go where they all run from. There was a tragic accident this morning. Firefighters from CSR Czernikowo left in alarm mode to fire soot in a fireplace in Liciszewy near Toruń. Their fire truck crashed into a truck. A firefighter died at the age of 30 and a 62-year-old firefighter. Three firemen are down. I ask the High House to celebrate the minute of silence of the dead tragically in an accident. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u128	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis. [[The order is different.]] Excuse me, sir, excuse me. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz is before you, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a recess and inclusion on the agenda of a point where Prime Minister Kaczyński will inform us whether the special forces knew about Mr Łukasz Meza's activities before he was appointed and - what is important - whether the Deputy Prime Minister, the Chairman of the Security Committee had such knowledge. It is a matter without precedent that the highest positions in the state should be elevated to a man who could prey on the harm and suffering of severely ill, terminally ill children and their parents. Perhaps you should go for example. to the Children's Health Center and look into the eyes of desperate, scared parents. It often happens that they sell everything they have, take debts from loan sharks and take moments to save their beloved child. Prime Minister! Did you know or didn't you know? [[Applause]] [[They'll defend the Masa.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u130	Thank you, Member. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who doesn't it work with? Check with the Member on the voting device. Who else doesn't work with your fellow Members? There's one. Is it working, sir? Ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet completed the vote, and I would very much like to ask those of you who have not yet done so to vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 214 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for adjournment until Minister Niedzielski provides information on how the pandemic in Poland is developing. The Government of Law and Justice abdicated in the fight against the pandemic. Minister Niedzielski was also Abdicated, who did not find even a minute, even though yesterday there was a debate in this Chamber to talk to messengers and Members about tens of thousands of infected, about more than 5 thousand. Deaths in the last two weeks. He hasn't found the time to answer the question about the highest number of people in quarantine since the beginning. This is abdication, and after abdication there should be resignation. It's time to change the Minister of Health who's no longer responding to the social factor. The Pandemic is going crazy, the Minister is silent. A minister who can't react is responsible for every death. He's not in the Seym today when he's supposed to answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u132	Thank you, sir. As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 204 - for, 226 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have a report of more than 500 people who died of COVID. This is the third position in the world ranking. Only Russia and Ukraine are ahead of us right now. This is a tragic ranking, which is why yesterday doctors from all opposition clubs, but when I understand as well, also doctors from the Law and Justice, in any case some of them, called on the authorities to step up their efforts to do what is well known, because such were the opinions of the Chief Medical Council, such were the opinions of the Medical Council at the premiere. I move that, in order to save thousands more people, close these proceedings, prepare rescue laws that will give the chance to save thousands more Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u134	Thank you, sir. One of these laws will be considered next week, on Wednesday, another is being prepared. Since you have requested that the sitting be closed, I will put this request to the vote. A formal request to close the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the sitting will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 200 for, 232 against, four stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Lithuanian Republic has signed a memorandum which states that the Polish language was to return to its final exams in Lithuania in 2022. The Lithuanian Republic, as it has been the case for 30 years, wants to continue the talks with the Polish party until the moment when the introduction of this Matura in 2022 will be impossible. While after the round of negotiations in September this year in Warsaw we were on the right path to show the Lithuanian side that it could not key further that it was to implement the memorandum, after last week's visit to the Vice Minister of Rome, this perspective went away because he arrived unprepared because he acted incompetently. Lithuanians promised him that one day there would be a Polish language for willing Poles in Lithuania. Well, I demand information about this, because we are retreating again, even though the Lithuanians have already committed themselves to returning Polish to their schooling in Lithuania.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u136	Thank you very much, sir. You know this isn't a formal conclusion. We therefore conclude our formal proposals. We return to item 9 on the agenda: Report from the committee... [[Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Can I refer to this? Explain?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u137	Mrs. Marshal! I very rarely take advantage of this possibility, but I would like to explain, because Mr Winnicki is misleading you, the High House. [[Start with Masa.]] I participated with the Minister of Rome in a delegation in Vilnius, where we were together last week. And that's where the very important arrangements have been made. First of all, the Lithuanian Minister of Education has signed the decision that the compulsory exam from the Polish language will be introduced. There was also a laboriously agreed timetable with the Lithuanian party. On the other hand, we will not announce this laborably agreed timetable until we consult the Polish environments in Lithuania. And such consultations are now coming to an end, sir. They were run last week. I would like to assure you that the Polish environments in the vast majority, in the vast majority, including the Union of Poles in Lithuania, voted in favour of such a timetable, are satisfied. The next few weeks will bring good news about this. This is the success of Polish diplomacy, the success of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u138	Thank you very much. We would like to refer to item 9 on the following: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1797. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, in print no. 1797, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 436 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government bill amending the act on combating doping in sport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1799. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1799 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 429 - for, 4 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the act on combating doping in sport. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1803. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 204 - for, 225 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1803, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 226 - for, 202 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Public Procurement Law and on certain contracts concluded in connection with the execution of contracts of fundamental importance for State security. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on wine products. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1776-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Pamula to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Prime Minister! Additional report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on wine products, print No 1314. At its 43rd meeting of 30 November 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in prints 1314 and 1776 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commissions: Public Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering these amendments at its meeting on 1 December 2021, shall submit: The High Sejm shall reject the amendments. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 may be voted on together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u140	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1776. The committees in the additional report present the amendments on which we will vote first. In amendments 1 to 3, applicants propose amendments to Article. 44 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 168 - for, 226 - against, 44 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1776, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 434 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm passed a law on wine products. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1693, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 361 - for, 48 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Polish Institute of Family and Demography. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1767 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 204 - for, 205 - against, 24 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the courts of peace. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is to accept the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1760 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 126 - for, 297 - against, 11 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland - Provisions introducing the law on the courts of peace. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1761 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 124 - for, 301 - against, withdrawed 12. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the law on the integration and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal validity of certain perpetual books. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1772-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Khoma to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u141	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, print No 1772-A, on the Government's draft law amending the law on the integration and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal validity of certain perpetual books, print No 1694. At its 43rd meeting of 30 November 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in prints Nos 1694 and 1772 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after considering these amendments at its meeting on 1 December 2021, shall ask the High Sejm to approve the following amendments: 1. - Reject, 2. - Reject, three, four and five. - adopt by joint vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u142	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no.1772. The committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been withdrawn. In amendments 3 and 4, applicants propose to add an article. 2a and Article 2a 3a. These amendments are combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. The consequence of their adoption will be the amendment of the title of the law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 420 for, 17 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law on amending the law on the integration and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books, in print no. 1772, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 434 - for, 3 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law on the consolidation and exchange of land, the law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books and the law on public roads. With a formal proposal from Mr Boris Budka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit your motion, Marshal, to remove the item from the agenda. At the last session of the Sejm, I presented to your marshal the issue of the extraordinary practice that began to be applied in this House, but in this case the issue is even worse. Well, at the second reading concerning the amendment of the Act - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure of the State Club - it was signed by the Marshal, but I think that without this knowledge - he tabled amendments, attention, to the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, on Medical Rescue, on the pursuit of the profession of doctor. Second reading. And let me remind you that we've been amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code. There's such a mess in the government that you're sending representatives of the Ministry of Health to a codification committee meeting. The Health Committee does not give an opinion at all on this draft law. There is no impact assessment. The mess is so messed up in the government that you slept through another deadline. Recently, the Ministry of Justice has added several million zlotys (The Bell) to the Act on the National Bank of Poland... Thank you very much, sir. Your Marshal, this is your responsibility. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If you allow me to vote... Thank you very much, sir. ...will be a manifest violation of the Constitution. Take it off. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u144	Thank you very much. You know damn well I can't take it off like this, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What do you mean, thank you? Is that a reaction?]] We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1691-A. [[Voice from the room: Please explain.]] We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Civil Code and the Act - Civil Procedure Code, 1344 and 1691-A prints. At its 43rd meeting of 30 November 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 95 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1344 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. [[Inconclusive.]] The Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 1 December 2021, asks: Amendments 1, 2, 3. - reject amendments 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. - accept. Note: on amendments 4. -10. vote jointly. Ladies and gentlemen! Our reality is like a rush train or a race against time. [[I think it's a race with brains. You lose it all the time.]] It's about the health of Poles. I think we all want to make it in time with the right solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u146	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1691. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the act - Civil Code. In the first amendment to Article. 388 applicants propose a new wording § 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Does it work? [[Start talking to Ziobra, the president.]] [[Take it easy. Take it easy.]] 433 Members voted. 198 for, 234 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 388 applicants propose not to add § 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 191 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 388 applicants propose a new wording § 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? 434 Members voted. 145 - for, 242 - against, 47 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 25b of the Act on State Medical Rescue, the applicants propose among others. Amendment of point 1 of paragraph 1. 2. Amendments 5 to 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The consequence of the adoption of these amendments will be the amendment of the title of the Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 4 to 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 251 - for, 176 - against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1691, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 233-- 119--no, 80 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law - Civil Code, Civil Code, and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1796-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mariusz Goska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u147	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office. At its 43rd meeting, the Sejm sent a draft law to the Committee on the Administration of the Interior to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 2 December 2021, calls on the Sejm to adopt the Government's draft law in its entirety and recommends that amendments 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9 be adopted and amendments 6 to 9 be voted jointly. At the same time, the committee requests that amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5 be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u148	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1796. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Police Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? I see he's not here yet. I can see that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I can see that it doesn't work because I have the same thing at home. [[Voice from the room: Sasina must be summoned.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 132 for, 234 against, 70 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I'm waiting. I haven't finished the vote yet. Who doesn't it work with? It's working. 435 Members voted. 200 for, against - 227, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose not to add point 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 202 - for, 235 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 25 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. Point 2, point 4, paragraph Point 5 (2), paragraph Point 10, paragraph 2. Point 12 (1) (a) b, paragraph. Point 15 (2), point 15 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 25 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. Point 12 (2), paragraph 12. Point 13 (2) and paragraph 13 14 point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 - for, 226 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law amending the article. 3a-3c. Amendments 7 to 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 6 to 9 will want to raise your hand and press it. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 228 - for, 201 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1796, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 312 - for, 3 - against, withered 121. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Bureau. [[Applause]] We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on voluntary firefighters. The additional committee report is in print No 1809-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on voluntary firefighters, print No. 1765. This is a historic moment. The firefighter's friends' environment waited 30 years for this bill. At its 43rd meeting of 1 December 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1809 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 2 December 2021, requests that amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10 and 11 be rejected and amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u150	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1809. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 156 - for, 268 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 2 of the draft law, the applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 156 - for, 276 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 3 of the draft law the applicants propose an amendment to the implementation of the calculation. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is the adoption of the 3rd minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 159 for, 277 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 3 the draft law of the applicant proposes an amendment to point 7. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 211-- for, 225-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 3 of the draft law, the applicants propose a new wording of point 15. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 208 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 5th bill. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 159 - for, against - 275, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 7 the draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 169 - for, 266 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 12 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 161 - for, 266 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. The 16th draft law of the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments from 2 to 4 and 9 and 10 of the minority proposal futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 211 - for, 226 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. The 16th draft law of the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The adoption of this minority proposal will make amendments from 2 to 4 and the 10th minority proposal futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 162 - for, 276 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment to the article. 16 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 211-- for, 225-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second point of point 1 of the draft law shall be proposed by the applicant by a different wording of point (a). a and b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 4th amendment and the 10th minority proposal futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 212-- for, 225-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second point of point 1 of the draft law shall be proposed by the applicant by a different wording of point (a). a and b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 10th minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 209 - for, 228 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The second point of point 1 of the draft law shall be proposed by the applicant by a different wording of point (a). a and b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 202 - for, 228 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th amendment to the article. The 27th draft law shall propose a different wording to the applicant. 1, 3 and 4. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render the 11th minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 435 - for, no one was against, no one held back 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 11. The minority's proposal has become unobtrusive. In the 6th amendment to the article. The 27th draft law is proposed by the applicant to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 437 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 8 and 12 of the minority proposal were tabled in Article. 39 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the State Fire Service. In the 8th amendment to the article. 1 paragraph 2 applicants propose not to add point 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 7 applicants propose to maintain the wording of point 1. We're voting. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 162 - for, 275 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Amendments 9 and 10 and 13. the minority request has been notified in Article. 46 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Safety and Rescue in the Mountains and in organized ski areas. In the 13th. the applicant's minority application proposes an amendment to the inserted Article. 11a and Article 11a 11c. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendments 9 and 10 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 203 - for, 227 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th amendment to the inserted article. 11a applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 203 - for, 224 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. 11c paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 199 - for, 224 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Individual Income Tax Act proposes to add point 44a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 202 - for, 226 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th amendment to the article. The 49th draft law of the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 212-- for, 225-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 56 draft law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 161 - for, 234 - against, 42 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1809, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For - 437, no one was against, 1 held back. The Sejm passed a law on voluntary firefighters. [[Some of the gathered get up, long-lasting applause]] Welcome, Chiefs and Chief of State Fire Department. Welcome, gentlemen. [[Voice from the Chamber: They are Members of the PiS.]] We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the urgent draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2022-2025 and on the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1808-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At its 43rd meeting of 1 December 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1808, i.e. the urgent government draft law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire and the State Protection Service between 2022 and 2025, and the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws, to the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 2 December 2021, requests that they be rejected, that all amendments be rejected, with the recommendation of a total vote on Amendments 2 and 8 and 6 and 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u152	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1808. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 210 - for, 225 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. This amendment is combined with the 8th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 3rd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 - for, 235 - against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 210 - for, against - 226, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 5th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 200 for, uh, 226 for, uh, 8 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 202 - for, 226 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 13 applicants propose to add point 29a. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 212-- for, 225-- against, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1808, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 430 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire and the State Protection Service between 2022 and 2025, on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2022 to 2025 and on the amendment of the Police Act and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate's resolution on the bill on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023 (prints 1787 and 1798). I ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u153	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, print No 1787. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 26 November this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the joint committees for consideration. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy after considering this resolution at its meeting on 30 November this year. ask the High Sejm to approve the amendments of the Senate contained in 11 points and to reject those contained in 15 points. The committees point out that amendments 2 and 9, 7, 13, 14 and 19, as well as the 22nd and 23rd vote together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u154	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 2. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 3 for, against - 428, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 3. 2. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 268 - for, against - 165, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 7 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 1, 431 is against, no one has abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 7 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 230 for, 200 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 7 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 6 and 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 233 - for, 203 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th Amendment, the Senate proposes to give a new wording to the article. 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 11 for, 423 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 7, 13, 14 and 19. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7, 13, 14 and 19 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 226 - for, 210 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes to add a new wording to point 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 224 - for, against - 210, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 15 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 225 - for, 210 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes amendments to point 12. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Two for, against -432, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 19 The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. No one was against - 427, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment to the article. 21 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There was no one for, 431 against, no one to hold back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 16th amendment to the article. 21 The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 224 - for, 209 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment to the article. 21 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 10. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 1 for, 433 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. 24 The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 1 for, against - 435, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment to the article. 26 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 223 - for, 213 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. 29 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 225 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 22nd Amendment, the Senate proposes that a new wording be made. 31. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 32 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 22 and 23 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. There was no one, no 437 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 24th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 32a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 223 - for, 210 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment to the article. 33 The Senate proposes an amendment to the introduction to the calculation and in point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 230 for, 205 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 26th amendment to the article. 33 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 431, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end, we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and certain other laws (prints 1783 and 1801). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws, print No 1783. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 26 November 2021 the above resolution of the Senate to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 30 November 2021, ask the High Sejm to accept the amendments of the Senate with the exception of amendments 15, 22, 31, 35, 36, indicating that amendments to point 1 can be voted jointly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u156	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 36. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. In amendments 1 to 5, from 9 to 12, 14, 16, 17, 19 to 21, 25, 27 to 30, 32, 33., 37 to 39, 41 and 42. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 5, from 9 to 12, 14, 16, 17, 19 to 21, 25, 27 to 30, 32, 33, 37 to 39, 41 and 42 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Nobody was for, no 433 was against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3a of the amended law, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. No one was for, 433 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 3a of the Law of the Revised Senate proposes to add paragraph. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 1 for, against -432, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 3b of the amended law, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was against 432, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 26 (2) (b) Article 2 and Article 2 29b. 2 of the amended act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. No one was for, 427 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment to the article. 28d paragraph 2 The Senate proposes a change in point 1. In the 36th amendment to the article. 68e of the amended Act The Senate proposes amendments to the implementation of the calculation. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 15 and 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 224 - for, 212 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. 29f of the amended law, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 4 and 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 5 - for, against - 428, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 22nd Amendment, the Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. Article 4 35 and the second sentence in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the amended act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 225 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment to the article. The 39th Law of the Revised Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 234 - for, 202 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 24th amendment to the article. The 39th Law of the Revised Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 235 - for, 201 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 26th amendment to the article. The 39th Law of the Revised Senate proposes to give a new wording to paragraph. 9. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 235 - for, 201 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 31st amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 1 points 29 and 30 of the Amending Act and in Article. 1 of the amending act add point 30b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 230 for, 202 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 34th amendment to the article. Point 32 of the Law amending the Senate proposes that the wording of point 1 be reworded. b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 225 - for, 211 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 35th amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 267 for, 169 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 40th amendment to the article. The 13th Law amending the Senate proposes to add point 4. This amendment is linked to the 43rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 40 and 43 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Two for, against - 428, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons performing cybersecurity tasks (prints 1780 and 1816). I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Public Finances on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Special Rules for Remuneration of Persons with Cyber Security Tasks, print No 1780. The joint committees of yesterday gave an opinion on the Senate resolution and asked the High Sejm to approve the amendments of Senate 1 and 2 and to accept amendments 3, 4 and 5. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u158	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 4 The Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 5a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. No one was against 425, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. Article 83a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (a) (iii) (iii) The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 1 - for, against - 431, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 24 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 223 - for, 210 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 24 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 231 for, 200 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws (Prints No. 1781 and 1794). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present briefly the report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on an important amendment to the Road Traffic Law and certain other laws, print No 1781. Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure considered 15 amendments that the Senate had tabled to the changes that the Sejm had designed. 10 of these amendments are recommended by the committee to accept the High House and five amendments are rejected. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u160	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Traffic Law. In the first amendment to Article. 100ab paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 1 for, against - 430, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. The 140ag Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 225 for, 205 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments 3 to 7. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 amending act containing amendments to the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. In the third amendment to the article. 117 The Senate proposes to add § 5.1 to 5.4. Amendments 16 and 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against Amendments 3, 16 and 17 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 3 for, against - 429, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In amendments 4 to 6, from 8 to 10 and 12. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 4 to 6, from 8 to 10 and 12, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. No one was against - 426, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 7th amendment to the article. 753 The Senate proposes to delete paragraph 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 3 for, 417 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 92a Act - Code of Offences The Senate proposes to add § Two, four. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 233 - for, 202 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add a new wording to the article. The 4th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 224 - for, 208 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and Polish Office of Communication Insurers The Senate proposes to give the first sentence a new sound. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 224 - for, 210 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 15th Amendment to the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, the Senate proposes to add an article. 13f and add a new wording to the Article. 17. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 225 - for, 210 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Energy Law (prints No. 1782 and 1800). I ask Mr Jan Waręcha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To the Act - Energy Law, print No 1782, the Senate tabled three editorial and legislative amendments to the article. 62f. Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on 30 November this year. it has examined these amendments and proposes that they be adopted in a joint vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u162	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 62f paragraph. 5th Act - Energy Law. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. No one was against, there were 432 Members, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - Energy Law. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure (Prints No. 1784 and 1815). I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure, Print Nos 1784 and 1815. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, adopted a resolution of the Senate on 26 November 2021 on the above matter... [[Louder.]] ...to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. The Commission, having considered this resolution at its meeting on 1 December 2021, asks the High Sejm to accept the amendment of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u164	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Two for, against - 426, seven stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Compensation for Persons who are entitled to an early pension for care of children requiring permanent care (prints Nos 1786 and 1805). I ask Mr Leszek Dobrzyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u165	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the act on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement for care of children requiring constant care. The Commission has examined this resolution at its meeting on 30 November this year and requests that all amendments tabled by the Senate be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u166	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendments 2, 3, 5 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 1 to 3, 5 and 10 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 226 - for, 210 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 2. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 4, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 226 - for, 209 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 4 in paragraph 4. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 6, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 225 for, 207 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 226 - for, 208 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 10 The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 225 - for, 205 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. The men of the Confederation, the ones who should be wearing masks. I've been sitting here for hours, reading in this mask, not taking it out of respect for the people sitting next to me. I would like to ask you to put on a mask. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 12. Amendments 11 and 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9, 11 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 223 - for, 209 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the act on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement in respect of care for children requiring permanent care. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints No 1785 and 1804. I would like to ask Mrs Danuta Nowick to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, in print 1804, on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and certain other laws, in print No 1785. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 26 November 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the above resolution at its meeting on 30 November 2021, submits: The High Sejm is entitled to the Senate amendments set out in point 1 and 11, with the exception of point 6, to accept paragraph 6 - to reject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u168	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 8. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the first amendment to Article. 15g The Senate proposes a new wording of point 1 of paragraph 1. 17b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted, no one was in favour, 417 against, 9 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the amendment to the Article. 15gg paragraph 23b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted, no one was in favour, 415 against, 9 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 15kb The Senate proposes a new wording of the added paragraph. 7c. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. Three for, 406 against, seven stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 15kc The Senate proposes to introduce references in paragraph 1. 8a (1), 8b (1) and 8d (1). The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. One for, 420 against, nine stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 15kc lips. 8a The Senate proposes among others. Amendment to point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Ladies and gentlemen, who is it? [[It's working.]] Thank you. [[Voice from the room: It's overheated.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] 435 Members voted. One for, 425 against, nine stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 15kc The Senate proposes a change in the added paragraph. 17a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 222 - for, 181 - against, 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 15zze 3 of the Senate Law proposes a change in the introduction to the calculation in the added paragraph. 2c. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. No one was for, 420 against, eight stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add Article. 31zzw. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 424, 8 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 9 to 11. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 Amending Act containing amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes, among other things, to add articles. 61ba-61bd were the content of the chapter.Animation programme for foreigners. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. No one was against - 431, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 61bb paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes to amend point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 424, 9 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 61bb The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 423-9 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (prints Nos 1791 and 1807). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u169	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Excise Tax Act and the Act amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws, print No 1791. After the discussion, the Commission rejected this Senate resolution and recommends that the High House reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u170	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Act of 29 October 2021 amending the Excise Tax Act and the Act amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 29 October 2021 amending the Excise Tax Act and the Act amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 224 - for, 199 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws (prints Nos 1792 and 1802). I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and on certain other laws, print Nos 1792 and 1802. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on 30 November 2021 considered the above resolution and submits: The Sejm decides to reject the resolution of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u172	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Act of 29 October 2021 amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 29 October 2021 amending the Renewable Energy Act and certain other laws would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 223 - for, against - 206, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the following agenda: - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted requests to supplement the agenda with points: - First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the act on the remuneration of managers of state positions and certain other laws, - Information from the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on irregularities identified by the auditors of the NIK regarding the functioning and management of the funds at the disposal of the Justice Fund - Fund for Damaged Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance; - The Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, PPS, Together) submitted an application for the following item: - Information from the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on police intervention in Lubin on 6 August this year. and the circumstances of the death of a man detained during intervention. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the act on the remuneration of managers of state positions. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 205 - for, 226 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the motion for information from the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I know, I see, ladies and gentlemen, I see. Again. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 202 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for information on the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 199 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1817). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 138a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1817 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 403 - for, 4 - against, abstained 15. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. I would very much like a moment of your attention. I'll announce a recess in a moment. I just wanted to inform you that our colleagues from the Slovak Parliament have adopted a resolution supporting us, Poland, in the fight against the Lukashenka regime in Belarus. They asked for greetings, wishes and expressions of support. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. Because similar resolutions, ladies and gentlemen... [[Members chant: Thank you, thank you, thank you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken similar resolutions together with the Lithuanian, Latvian and Estonian parliaments, so we thank all our colleagues for this solidarity. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, and I'm announcing a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 03 hours 16 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on retail tax (Print No 1811). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to present the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the assumptions of the draft law amending the excise and retail tax law. This change is part of a package announced last week called an anti-inflationary shield or a shield for households affected by an increase in inflation. At this point, a few words of explanation. Namely, this project does not contain all the demands contained in the inflation shield, but this is due to the fact that part of the changes, in particular concerning the reduction of VAT to gas, electricity and heat from the grid, heat from heating, can be made in the Regulation. These changes will therefore be made by means of a regulation on which the Ministry of Finance is already working. On the other hand, the provisions on excise duty and retail tax must be made by law and I have the honour to present such a proposal to the High House. A few explanations. As regards excise duty on petrol, on fuel - this includes not only petrol, but also diesel or gas used for fuelling cars - we propose a reduction from 20 December this year until the end of May next year. We are lowering this rate to the absolute minima allowed by the European Commission. I would also like to point out that this does not apply only to excise duties, but also to the issue fee. This amendment therefore reduces both excise duty and the levy to the minimum permitted by the European Commission. We simply cannot make a greater reduction with regard to EU rules. In addition, the Act contains changes and reductions in excise duties on electricity. Firstly, we are lowering the excise duty on electricity for households. At this point it is 5 PLN per MWh, we lower it to zero. So from the entry into force of this law, from 1 January to the end of May of next year, electricity for households will not be taxed by excise duty. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In addition, High Izbo, we also reduce the excise duty on electricity for entrepreneurs. At this point this excise duty is 5 PLN per MWh, we lower it to 4.60 PLN - also from 1 January to the end of May next year. Why up to PLN 4.60? Because this is the absolute minimum allowed by the European Commission. We can't lower it any further. On the other hand, we are reducing excise duty to the absolute minimum permitted by the European Commission for all entrepreneurs. In addition, High Izbo, we suspend the retail tax on motor fuels, also from 1 January to the end of May next year, which will also translate into a fall in petrol prices or widely understood fuels. Simply this retail tax at petrol stations for fuels is abolished completely for this period. [[Applause]] [[You're bravely fighting the problems you've created.]] We are not fighting the problems that we ourselves have created, Madam President, because, as I recall, excise duty was also in force under the rule of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] And I don't remember him being lowered back then. [[We called for a reduction, and you did not lower it.]] [[Voice from the room: Because it was planned...]] I don't remember him being lowered back then. I'm asking you to calm down. [[Voice from the room: Calm down, Leczyna.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Now, my dear Izbo, a very important declaration. These tax reductions which we propose to Poles, combined with a cover supplement - which is intended to help the poorest, most vulnerable to the increase in household heat prices, but also to compensate for those VAT reductions which we cannot implement due to EU rules, such as. in the case of food prices - i.e. this mix related on the one hand to the reduction of taxes and, on the other hand, the implementation of shield solutions for the most affected farms in inflation is, in our opinion, the best way to combat inflation and the way the European Commission recommends. Because to all those who say that this is an ad hoc solution, a solution that does not help to combat inflation, I will only remind you of the word of the opposition itself, which has recently called for tax reductions, as well as the European Commission, which in October encouraged Member States to reduce excise duties on electricity, to reduce other tax burdens. So that it is your favorite European Commission, the best determinant of what you think the Polish Government should do, it recommended. We're implementing it. So now I'm surprised at the opposition screaming, which says it's a bad solution. After all, you yourself proposed this, as did the European Commission. [[Applause]] So that I hope you will support this project. One more very important piece of information. Inflation is a very serious social situation, and it is also felt very much by society. Therefore, in the first quarter of next year we will be watching this inflation grow. And if it turned out at the end of March next year, or at the beginning of the second quarter of next year, that Polish families, Polish households still require support and assistance from the government It is through tax cuts that, of course, as a government, we will be ready to do so and we will respond decisively. This is the package that we present at the end of this quarter and next quarter, the first quarter of next year, but this is a package that is not a closed package. It is a package that is intended to allow us to reflect on the need if there were such expectations from the public as to continue helping Polish households at current inflation levels. And that's, I think, very important. [[Applause]] I therefore ask the High House to support this bill. I also ask you to read this bill with other solutions that I was talking about. It is about reducing VAT for 3 months from 1 January to the end of March to 5% for electricity, reducing VAT for gas to 8% from 1 January to the end of March next year and reducing, thank you very much for this idea to Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, that is a very, very good idea... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...VAT for heat up to 8% for those 3 months when Poles are the most heated. Such constructive cooperation between the government and parliamentarians allows to create good and fruitful programs for Polish families and Polish households. Another bill, which will probably be presented by the Minister of Climate Affairs, will be a package of cover additives for the most deprived households. We know that inflation is a serious social problem. We know that households, Polish families expect the government to react and the Sejm to this problem. And today I have the honour to present the first draft law, the first normative act that solves this problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u174	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u175	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the bill that you have just presented to the Minister. First of all, I would like to thank you very much on behalf of the club for this bill and for the announcement of other changes that will stop inflation. [[Applause]] I think society was waiting for this project. We'll all be grateful when it's a fact. Yes, indeed, in this seym last week, i.e. At the previous session of the Sejm, we discussed inflation at the opposition's request. There were conclusions here that taxes should be reduced, and the Minister said so. I will not repeat what the Minister said. I'll recommend a project for further processing. I encourage you to read this bill. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u176	Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We understand that it is only now that you have seen the problem, since the bill is now in effect, that the Sejm meeting was specifically convened for next week, because inflation has suddenly arisen. [[It's like all over Europe.]] We believe that with this bill you should be ashamed to come to the Polish Parliament, because this law is propaganda and apparent. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: I would be ashamed to say it.]] Propaganda and apparent, so you can say... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. ...that the government is doing something, but not doing it really. It's a treatment for symptoms, not causes. Prime Minister! Such a remark that the best anti-inflationary shield would be an independent central bank that would respond sufficiently early to problems. [[What kind of nonsense do you say?]] A real anti-inflationary boost would be a reduction in VAT for energy, fuel and zero gas. Czechs can lower electricity to zero, we can't. The question is whether the government with Prime Minister Morawiecki deliberately did not react earlier, using higher revenues to the budget. After all, the fact that the pandemic and its aid activities would cause inflation was known from the very beginning. Other countries were able to react earlier. You waited. Today, when you have taken as much as you want to take, you give the Poles a substitute, giving them the most expensive Christmas in history. [[Please.]] The excise duty reduction has a symbolic dimension. The result for the price of fuels is 5 gr per 1 l of diesel, 15 gr per 1 l of petrol. Meanwhile, the dollar is cheaper, oil is cheaper, and gas isn't as cheap as it should be. [[So what? You guys gonna object?]] The megawatt hour will be 5 PLN cheaper, which means the average 2-, 3-person family will get 10 PLN per year. Bravo. You and you, Prime Minister, should listen to President Donald Tusk, [[Joy in the Chamber]] which was already in October talking about negotiating zero VAT on energy and fuel, not lying, just like the state, that you negotiated VAT on food. Then, if you listened to him in October, families would feel a real fall in prices, a liter of gasoline could be cheaper by 1.20 instead of 20 grams, as in your proposal. The budget will earn several billion zlotys on inflation, while in VAT alone it will take out more than 10 billion zlotys from Poles' pockets and throw 1.5 billion to Poles, according to these calculations, in the reduction of excise duties. Count it. Real anti-inflationary measures were proposed in the denier, which was rejected by the PiS parliamentarians during the meeting of the Public Finance Committee. In addition to zero VAT, we have proposed urgent measures for you: to prepare, together with the National Bank of Poland, a strategy against inflation to protect against its effects on the most vulnerable groups of society; to implement the European Commission's recommendations on the rule of law in Poland and planned reforms, which will allow for a positive opinion on the National Plan for Reconstruction and, as a result, for the necessary investments and reforms; to restore the independence of judges and the independence of courts, which will put an end to the dispute with the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council and will remove the threat of applying a conditionality mechanism to Poland; to ensure a stable legal environment for business, which will raise the record low level of investment and strengthen the foundations of the economy, providing the basis for long-term development. As long-term objectives, we have proposed: the allocation of funds from the sale of CO2 allowances to the necessary energy transformation and investment in renewable energy sources, which will reduce energy prices in the future; ensuring a stable legal environment for business, which will increase the record low level of investment and strengthen the foundations of the economy, providing the basis for long-term development. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We will do everything in the Committee on Public Finance, working on this law, so that Poles will really feel the fall in prices. We're gonna do everything we can to make sure this Christmas isn't the most expensive Christmas ever. But what you are proposing today is not a relief for Poles, none. You have benefited greatly from high inflation, and you are very late in reacting to it. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to say that we will be working on this bill in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're getting the bill again at an express pace, we got it an hour ago. Of course, the bill was announced by the Prime Minister as an anti-inflationary action. The only question that arises is: Why is all this happening so late? I would like to remind you that the Left Club already in October asked the Polish government and the Prime Minister to take action on this matter. We then talked about the need to reduce excise duty, the need to lower VAT, to react in real terms to what is happening on the market and to rising inflation. Then it turned out that in general these are not wise proposals. Let me just remind you what the President of the National Bank of Poland said: we have money in the beard and we are safe. Let me just remind you of the revision of the state budget for this year. After all, the Prime Minister boasted that 33 billion additional funds were suddenly available in relation to VAT. Of course, at that time we signaled that these measures were found due to galloping inflation, and we said that this is not an economic miracle, but prices that are rising. And just so we're clear: no matter how you swear at reality and no matter how propagandaally you say that the European Union owes everything to the European Union, to the economic situation in the world, to war, etc., you are an accessory to this economic situation, to these rising prices and to this galloping inflation. I stress that, indeed, what is happening outside has an impact on what is happening and there is no doubt about it, but to a large extent through wise economic policy you have been able to avoid the situation that we are dealing with today, because we have the impression that this inflation has just gotten out of hand. Let me just remind you that, as far as energy transformation is concerned, this transformation could have been carried out in real terms since 2015. What were you doing? The said Minister Tchórzewski, whom I very much respect, then, in 2016, said: we will continue to mine this coal for 50 years, this coal is at all the basis for functioning and be calm, all mines will function. [[That's right.]] And what does it turn out to be? Today, of course, we must carry out this transformation as a matter of urgency. I'm just paying attention to the decisions that have been made, because someone, for example, lost 2 billion PLN for the Ostrołęk Power Plant has to pay. And just so we're clear, the recipient pays for it, we all pay for those wrong decisions. Second thing. You guys had a great budget. I will remind you of the famous election gift you made in 2019 - everyone was surprised how you can pay energy companies from the compensation fund 10 or 12 billion PLN - because the elections were coming, you should have said: yes, we will not be raising energy prices at the moment. Everyone knew that if they did not increase by 5% in 2019, they would have to increase by 15% in 2020. And it's gonna hurt even more, but of course the election was much more important. What happens to the measures of these famous CO2 emission certificates? Yes, indeed, they have. This is probably also the result of some speculation in the market, after all we analyzed it. But who told you as a Polish government to sell these certificates and fund the state budget? This money should be transferred to an energy transformation. Fuel? Of course, the fuel on the market is expensive. I'll remind you what the famous Orlen Corporation is doing. Orlen buys some completely unnecessary toy, regional newspapers, spending money on it. Therefore, we must pay for all of this again in fuel. There are many other missed investments of this type. [[You're in pain. It hurts.]] You share responsibility for this inflation. This is a good direction, it really needs to be done, but it is also necessary to ensure that energy companies, fuel companies do not generate additional profits from the possible entry into force of this bill. The Left Club is in favour of continuing to work on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all expected this kind of action to be taken. They have to be taken. We are aware that this package is the beginning of a series of actions that simply need to be carried out in order to heal the situation that we have and which is very dynamic. It is related to internal conditions, external conditions, conditions dependent on us, on which we had influence over which the government had influence, and conditions which were not affected. First of all, these first proposals are not an anti-inflationary package. This is a kind of preliminary cover package. That's where we start. I understand that Christmas is coming, we need to improve the atmosphere and the mood of our citizens, because we know that they will feel this increase in costs exceptionally. Of course, we are aware that there were two budgets in 2020 because there was an amendment. There are two amendments in 2021. Actually, it's a form of amendment now, too. I'm sure we'll have a similar approach next year. Of course, the causes of the pandemic are at the top of the agenda. There's no discussion here. On the one hand, this pandemic has translated into GDP, on the other hand, into huge expenditure in order to maintain employment. It is debatable whether all these expenses were needed, but, you know, I don't burden these special rulers, because it's good to be smart now, after the fact. When there were difficult situations, we all said, let the government work, let even more money go to the market, because it'll pick him up. This has hit the market, but it has also caused some negative effects that need to be eliminated in some way at the moment. The inflation rate is almost 8%. I think those assumptions that were in the budget... The government, by including these assumptions in the budget for 2022, did not believe that such a level could continue. But let's look for reasons. Of course, there are raw material prices, which are largely independent of us, this is a world trend, but let's also remember that last year there was a certain bank intervention at this time, completely pointless, on the currency market, in order to fund the budget more. Now we actually have the situation we have. We know that in 2018, in 2019 the euro rate was around 4,25, 4,30 and now it is 4,7. It all translates into inflation. It translates into debt service. All this has to be paid for. After all, we all know that, in the short term, this inflation was somehow helpful to the government, but it's important to be aware that when it exceeds 3 and 4% It's starting to be a problem, and it's got to be counteracted. The NBP's mistake was... I know the NBP is independent, but you're saying there wasn't a certain warning signal for the economy to react a little differently. I'm moving on. Of course, this has translated into an increase in debt. You can understand that, too. At the moment, the salvation would be, Prime Minister, the money that would flow under the National Plan for Reconstruction, this advance, over EUR 5 billion, because it would immediately affect the situation of the euro and the gold exchange rate. I therefore hope that the National Reconstruction Plan will be approved this year. After my 15-year presence in the European Parliament, that is my feeling. I don't have current knowledge, but that's my sense of timing. That would really help us all. I say to everyone, because right now it's not a problem. It's just the government. That's the problem. All of us. It is good that we are talking, and we should talk more so that we do not talk only in situations where (the bell) it is convenient for the rulers, and in other periods we treat this opposition a little bit as an unnecessary institution. A little more needs to be said about the problems of emission allowances, because it cost the economy. But at the same time, this money went to the budget. It's not like the Union took them. We also did not use all the resources we could obtain from the Union to support the transformation processes in energy. So I think we're gonna talk, there's something to talk about, because this conversation Poles need. Thank you very much. We expect as an opposition very serious treatment and serious conversation, for which we are, at least coalition Poland - PSL, ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u182	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're a little surprised that we're running this bill today. We were preparing for - and already surprising - next week's deadline, but it must be said that it is good that this law appears because it is definitely going in the right direction, in the wrong direction, in the wrong direction, but always positive. One thing that amuses me a little bit about those announcements that are, for example. That there's going to be an elimination of the issue fee. I was gonna say, but you're the ones who brought it in. So you're handling your own problem. There will also be a retail tax exemption. You're the ones who brought it in. There'll be a fuel charge somehow moved. These are your cases, your problems. These are your new taxes you've been introducing. At this point, as is the case with socialism, you're heroically fighting the problems you've created. These VAT reductions, which are, of course, going the right way. It is very good that the bill has been divided into the part in which you actually touch some slight tax reductions, and next to it there will probably be a law talking about a shielding supplement, which actually completely destroys the effect that you wanted to achieve, that is, an anti-inflationary effect. The reality will be that, after the introduction of the cover supplement, which is in fact a bribe for voters - we all know very well here in this House - unfortunately there will be nothing to collect. Our anti-inflationary shield, the Confederation's anti-inflationary shield, which we have presented many times, is among others. The bill: cheap fuel, which lies with Marshal Witek and waits for introduction. It speaks of many solutions, among others. Minimum VAT, minimum excise duty, removal of the levy. Thank you for copying it from us, we're very pleased. VAT-free current, elimination of 15 taxes, including reprogramming fee, e.g. sugar tax, which you introduced at the first sitting of this Sejm, 0% VAT on basic food. It is a lie that the European Commission does not allow you to do so. There was no such discussion at all, and it certainly wouldn't be a problem. And above all, stop printing money. Stopping the money printing is what you've done with all your 13s, 14s, 15s, 500+, 1000+, RKO, 300+ and all your other projects. You have made Polish gold lie at this moment, screaming, turning. The inflation at this point, the inflation spiral you have led to, is absolutely unstoppable if you continue to manage as you rule. We highly recommend copying good solutions from the Confederation, because our solutions can actually help you. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You've already copied many of our solutions into this bill. We are very pleased about this, and if you happen to think that this is not possible, then I will remind you of the words of your president, who once said that if someone is unable to manage under such conditions, it is clearly not fit to govern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u184	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If there's anything here, ladies and gentlemen, copied, it's the five Holovnia, which was announced on October 20th. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But thank you, because these were really and are good solutions that can bring relief to Poles and Poles. But first things first. Why is it so expensive for our wallets? Eight percent inflation, eight percent increase in prices means that the person who didn't get an increase this year lost 1 month of their income. That's what you've led to. Last year more than 400 thousand arrived in Poland. people living in extreme poverty. A total of 2 million Poles are suffering from extreme poverty. Inflation, Prime Minister, will push more people into this group, groups of people living in Poland in extreme poverty. You wash your hands of the responsibility for the current state, blaming the world's trends. But one of the important factors, if not the most important, certainly very important, is the weakening gold. This is also the reason why prices are rising at such a rate in Poland. You have your own work in this. It is the result of irresponsible communication of the President of the National Bank of Poland, the effect of sovereign debt at an unprecedented rate, if we look at the latest history of Poland. Do you know how much public debt has grown in the last two years? 33%. One-third of public debt has grown over the last two years and this debt has grown beyond Parliament's control because you are doing creative accounting. You don't do the act of grace. Unfortunately, the level is insufficient. Today, the complex law represents a cost of PLN 1.5 billion for the state budget. Do you know how much you've earned on price increases and on the poverty of Poles? [[Voice from the room: We?]] You have earned 33 billion more this year on VAT alone, because so much more has been paid to the state budget in relation to the original plan. Do you know how much money you made selling CO2 rights? PLN 24 billion. Looking only at these two items, you can see that this is an additional impact on the budget of PLN 57 billion. It hurts, I know, it hurts. 57 billion PLN gave you only higher VAT and only higher revenue to the CO2 budget and you give Poles 1.5 billion PLN? Well, Prime Minister, I've never met a more cheap man. For example, you suspend the retail tax because you say it affects the price level. Yeah, it does, we said that when you put it in the tax system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But why are you just suspending him from fuel? After all, it also affects the level of food prices, which are also extremely high. Christmas is coming. Let people live through Christmas. [[Time's up.]] As I said, the bill is directionally similar, in principle it is the same intervention with the five Holovnia, which proposed to reduce VAT, reduce electricity and gas bills, suspend the issue fee, but also postpone the Polish Order... [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] ...which, Prime Minister, is another inflationary stimulus. You're trying to mitigate the effects of inflation, and while you're doing it badly, we're going to help you do it, because it's extremely important. Unfortunately, you're not wondering for a moment, Prime Minister... [[Voice from the hall: Go to the Holovnia.]] ...to eliminate the causes of inflation. Without that, you can't solve the problem. Thank you very much. We are, of course, in favour of continuing to work on this bill in committee, and we will improve your poor intervention aid for Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u186	Thank you very much. I really wanted to ask for some peace of mind in the courtroom. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice will be the first to ask the question. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u187	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! The issue of inflation is indeed a problem, but - unlike what happened under the Civil Platform - we do not run away from it. Let us recall how the then President of the Council of Ministers reacted to the problem of inflation. He said if he had two buttons, he'd push the inflation lowering one. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a serious policy approach that talks about inflation - to say that there is no button that could reduce inflation. In the case of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government, there are concrete buttons, not imaginary buttons to push. These concretes consist of real tax reduction, for the amount of PLN 10 billion, of money that will remain in the pockets of Poles. This includes: fuel. Let's remember what Mr. Donald Tusk said, let's compare. Mr. Donald Tusk, after winning the election, said that fuel could now cost 7 PLN. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki presented completely different proposals which consist of a reduction of fuel, e.g. the reduction to the lowest possible level of fuel excise duty and the abolition of the retail charge. These are real actions, not just saying that fuel can now cost 7 PLN, not talking about buttons to push, but concrete. The same applies to the reduction of VAT to 5% for electricity and VAT to 8% for gas. This can even contribute to the fact that during the quarter the household, which heats its apartment with gas, will save up to 140 PLN. This is real money that will remain in the pockets of Poles. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, action is being taken, and it's not being made up that the government can't do anything. Contacts. We have defended millions of jobs (The Bell) during the pandemic and now we will help Poles fight inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u188	Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u189	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If you look at this project we're discussing, you can say that the mountain gave birth to a mouse. [[Voice from the hall: A Tusk gave birth to Nowak.]] Mr... You're trying to throw away responsibility for what's going on when it comes to inflation, and you have a significant share in the fact that it's at this level today because entrepreneurs are shifting rising tax burdens on customers. We warned you about it, we talked about it. I've tried to explain to you many times what tax evasion is all about. You were deaf to it. In addition, let's add bad management of State Treasury companies, especially in the energy sector, e.g. Turów, Bełchatów, and events in these places, at the New Jaworzno, Ostrołęka power stations, it turns out that you are throwing money in the mud. In addition, we have overemployment, rising wages, feeding the PiS families, friends of the rabbit - you might say - rotating boards, giant bonuses. It all comes into cost and ultimately also into the prices that we pay. [[Change the repertoire.]] There are omissions when it comes to energy, restructuring and conversion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to impose another tax burden. Right now, New Deal. He's hanging like a Damocles sword. Maybe it's worth the suspension, not the introduction. Maybe it's worth not giving another inflationary boost. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u190	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u191	God bless you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't see the Prime Minister. Last Thursday, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that - I quote - the government was considering a reduction in VAT to zero for food products. However, the European Commission has different rules. He doesn't agree to this kind of action. If the European Commission were to agree, there is our commitment, an invitation for the first half of next year to zero VAT on food. But that's the kind of consent that hasn't yet been granted. Prime Minister! For the time being, as the European Commission has said. You have not spoken to the European Commission on this matter. I therefore call on you to consider what food prices should look like in Poland in December 2021, and today he explained to Poles what the chances of lowering these prices are. The Poles in December, historically speaking, have repeatedly called for food prices to be lower. Today you, Prime Minister, have a chance. Today, make a decision, not refer to the European Commission, which you did not speak to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u192	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to get back to agricultural matters, because the agricultural situation is extremely difficult. The increase in production costs is so high that there is no chance that production will be restored at the current level of income, because fertiliser prices have gone up not two - but three times. We know the price of fuel, energy. It all translates into production costs. I think this requires special treatment, otherwise next year we will have a food security crisis. This applies not only to Poland but also to the whole European Union. And that, which is the situation of agriculture, is one thread. As for the second thread, I think the truth is also that despite the pandemic I was talking about, which affected the situation... There have also been good years, it is about the time since 2014, 2015 because after 2014 the world economy and the European economy began. Then there was a significant flow of funds to the budget. You've been using this to your advantage, not thinking about the future, to provide some social security that we, and we need very, very much. So here everything needs to be very rationalized and counted (The Bell) so as not to lead to poverty of a large group of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u194	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u195	Oh, my gosh. What's going on? Who would have thought that if we print empty money, that if we're in debt, if we're in debt, it's going to end in inflation? Damn, that's impossible. Unless the guy who predicted it thought about it. [[Member Dobromir Sosnierz replays a recording from a mobile phone:...taking us into a policy that has already led us to the brink of bankruptcy. And you're headed straight into this bankruptcy - into hyperinflation...]] [[This has nothing to do with inflation.]] Covering hyperinflation. That's what I said last year. Boy, how did I come up with that? Just listen, because now that you've come up with this and you're doing this kind of thing, listen to those who told you the year before. Because in advance you say it's only for six months. Why don't those things that are good now be good in six months? If you do that, I'll tell you right now, the markets will anticipate this future tax increase and prepare for it, they'll cushion the effects you're looking for. And I'm not talking about what you've been shaking, but what you've been doing... 'Cause you guys are trying to keep pumping social expenses in the same package. So if you want to do it really well, come to me, I'll help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u197	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, members of the government and the entire Law and Justice fight heroically against the problems they themselves have caused for a company with the Central Bank. Of course, you can clap for it, enjoy it, jump here in the High House, but you had to have this reflection when you passed high taxes or played to lower the value of the gold, because that's what you did, and the effects are what we see. Poland 2050 has repeatedly invited the government to work on such solutions that will help protect Polish and Polish wallets. Already in October we presented five Holovnia, i.e. five ready-made concrete solutions against the costing. Unfortunately, the government did not want this cooperation and avoided the subject until now. The Prime Minister should explain to the citizens why the government did not want to act against the cost and waited so long. It is a good thing that the Prime Minister finally got over it and became interested in this expensive one. Of course, the direction is good here, in the spirit of Poland's 2050 proposal, but again, Prime Minister: Why is this concrete solution so shallow? It is only 1.5 billion PLN and very short time. Prime Minister! Please respond carefully here. Why are you reacting so late, and why is this support so small and given for a very short time? However, only thanks to our one proposal, connected with the suspension of the issue fee would Poles save at least 1800 million PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That would be a real cost savings, and yet we have a slim proposal that the Prime Minister has presented to the High House today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to pay my respects and thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for finding these buttons in his office that Mr Donald Tusk could not find. These are buttons that lower food, energy, raw materials and electricity prices. Prime Minister! This is primarily due to the fact that there has been a profound change in rhetoric. The sealing of the tax system, the fight against the VAT mafia are effective and translates into the fact that in the state budget there is a reserve of money needed to introduce precisely those reductions that give breath to Polish families, pensioners. Drug production is absolutely no longer profitable. Only VAT - these are the words of Mr. Donald Tusk's closest associate, Mr. Grass. Prime Minister, well - and I repeat after the classic - that you are not going this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u200	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! President Glapiński himself said that thanks to the late increase in the interest rate the central budget earned 9 billion PLN. So now, as I understand it, you're giving back what you took in the form of a late interest rate increase. You pay back the $10 billion to the Poles, so don't brag about it. The investment rate has been the lowest in 30 years, it's a record. The increase in investment gives us long-term inhibition of inflation. You promise to lower the fuel price for three months. I said, what about after three months? We have the fastest growing food prices in Europe. Prime Minister Morawiecki boasts about what a great anti-inflationary package you are introducing, saying that there was no such package behind Tusk. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to point out that during Prime Minister Tusk's reign there was no such inflation. It wasn't much of a fluke when he left. Maybe you don't know that. So I'm going to give you a graph. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u202	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u203	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The inflation's going crazy. The yeast is getting bigger, prices are getting higher every day. 2 million people live in extreme poverty. Government policy in this area is largely based on the forecasts of the National Bank of Poland and Mr Glapiński. President Glapiński is one of the main reasons why we have such a policy and that inflation has grown far more than it should and could have grown, given world trends. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, are you still going to base your financial policy on reckless, nonsense, you can say, Mr Glapiński's forecasts, which actually led to the crisis that we have? Are you talking to President Glapiński about this? It is not possible to conduct a sensible policy in the country if we have such a president of the National Bank of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u204	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fight against the pandemic and the efforts of the Polish government to save jobs are indeed one of the factors influencing inflation, but these are not the decisive and most important factors in terms of current inflation. Current inflation is definitely imported from the outside as it results from an increase in global gas and fuel prices, which in turn resulted in an increase in the prices of many goods and services. The government has therefore proposed measures under the anti-inflationary shield: a reduction in VAT rates and a reduction in excise duty, in some cases practically to zero and in others to the minimum rate that can be applied due to the requirements of the European Union. Listening to some of the Members of the opposition, it can be said that when the government raises taxes, it is criticised, and when it lowers them, the opposition states: no, not now, it should not be done. The opposition adds: but we proposed it, Donald Tusk proposed it or Simon Holovnia. The opposition claims that under Donald Tusk's rule there was a deflation, which is also not a good solution for the economy, and I do not even know if it is worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The question was inflation.]] The law itself is moving in the right direction and perhaps it is worth keeping at least some of the solutions for the future - if not all - that have been proposed in this law. At the end of the question. What will the cost of these solutions be for the state budget? How much will the Poles save due to the reduction of these taxes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u206	Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u207	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, today you're pretending to be the saviors who are saving people from the cost, but the truth is, you're the ones who are responsible for this cost. Over the past months and over the years of your governments, you have made a number of decisions that have increased and imposed new taxes and charges. I'll exchange the power charge, the increase in energy costs, the trade tax, the fuel levy, the sugar levy on beverages, the increase in excise duty on alcohol, the bank tax, the double taxation of limited companies, the rain tax. In addition, since January you have introduced the so-called. A new order that will hit the entrepreneurs. And the truth is, if entrepreneurs have more business costs, they're gonna transfer these costs - to who? - on customers and prices of goods and services can go up again. Today you come with solutions that, objectively speaking, lead to the printing of money. This will not contribute to the inhibition of inflation, it will only be a point of suppression of its effects. The truth is, it kind of looks like a patient who needs surgery was treating with painkillers. That's what it looks like. This high inflation, almost 8%, the highest in 20 years, is the result of your many-year negligence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was you who, through your actions and the passive policy of the National Bank of Poland, have led to such a situation that today we have a huge cost which beats Poles on their wallets. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Thunder applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u208	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u209	The opposition is separated from reality, although it has a very important negative impact on the issue of Polish inflation. Firstly, we need to know what unemployment is, and we need to know what economic growth is. Even those social transfers, what did they do? They affected economic growth. On the other hand, the opposition also does everything to drive inflation in Poland, because it stimulates external factors when it comes to inflation issues. In the case of America, the illustration is exactly the same: broken supply chains, more money to protect jobs. At the same time, you are driving external factors by appealing for the retention of EU money provided for Poland, which is a scandal at all. That's one thing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But who does it?]] The second element, which is very important in this respect, is climate policy. Instead of halting climate policy in such a shape that it does not adversely affect, so all these solutions that today are dangerous in the current situation... [[Voice from the hall: But who rules this country? Who runs the country?]] ...the state does everything exactly the opposite, including in terms of energy security. An important element is also what is saved within the Polish government by tax reduction and investment growth, while the state does not want to see it. Therefore, it is an opposition which, in addition to all of this, creates a greater danger (The Bell), because the state wants to threaten Polish borders, not help to stabilize this security in Poland. Look, countries... [[Voice from the hall: Why tell such nonsense?]] What do you mean... Lithuania, those countries which are also at risk of this security, also have higher inflation, which affects this. [[That's bullshit.]] Similarly, Poland, as well as Hungary, is being attacked in terms of so-called relations. The condition that you're making even more of. [[Voice from the room: What does this have to do with the inflationary shield?]] This also affects economic evaluation and inflation. You're filming externally, i.e. inside external factors, i.e. the issue of impact on Polish inflation. [[Voice from the hall: Do not cast your sins upon others. Take care of the Glapiński.]] [[Voice from the room: six years you ruled. Poland is turning into a ruin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Really, the opposition is responsible for everything in this country. You're welcome, Mrs. Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I don't know why we can't talk substantively about the problem, but we're still talking about Donald Tusk and some imaginary problems. Why? And I want to be substantive. I ask you why the government does not work systemically, does not overtake certain phenomena that already exist, appear in the markets, but waits when the situation is already dramatic. [[Implosibilism.]] When inflation is at 7.7% That's when he starts offering something. [[Voice from the room: We're waiting for the U.S. Marshals.]] And now yes, please pay attention... Please do not say that the international situation affects our market. Of course, to a certain extent, yes, but I want to talk about the price of gasoline. When the Platform was in charge with PSL, the price of the barrel was $128. A week ago, ladies and gentlemen, it was $82, and today it's 68, over 15%. less. Not much, the price of the dollar on the world markets is stable and is PLN 4.05. I ask why these trends and this already proven situation that exists, there is no reflection on the domestic market. Why does the government have to reduce the price (the Bell) by 15 gr, and Orlen doesn't respond to world prices that fall? We are cut off from the fundamental rights of economics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u212	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are having a very important discussion about the draft law on amending the excise tax law and the retail tax law, the draft government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The Minister has presented very good, concrete solutions here, but they do not always go to the opposition. [[Voice from the room: They didn't understand anyway.]] But why do I say opposition? Because it is from your mouth that we have been offered here to listen to the Prime Minister, Mr Donald Tusk today. Let me remind you a few facts so that we can talk about important things: my government's chief policy will be to gradually reduce taxes and other public danins, and this applies to all those who are less wealthy and those who are rich. [[Voice from the hall: Take care of your government. You've been in charge for six years.]] Who said that? That's what Mr. Donald Tusk said on October 29th in his exposé. Sorry, he said that in his first exposé in 2007. [[Voice from the room: 14 years ago, great.]] But as early as October 2010, on the initiative of the government, a around-budget law was adopted amending the VAT Act, increasing all VAT rates by 1 percentage point, all of them. [[Voice from the hall: which one were you supposed to reduce, and what?]] At a rapid pace, the Sejm majority voted on the increase in the pension contribution from how many? From 4.5 to 6.5%. [[You promised to cut it down, so what?]] The government of Donald Tusk also raised excise duties on tobacco products and alcohol. We're talking about facts. Of course, let's call another institute. According to the debt counter of the Civil Development Forum (Dawn), not ours, at the end of 2013 Poland's debt amounted to over PLN 935 billion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And in America they beat African-Americans.]] Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen are always in the way, it's just hard to fit in time. As you say so much about Donald Tusk, you're running out of time for substantive texts. [[Voice from the hall: But Donald Tusk hasn't been in charge for seven years.]] In this respect, I would just like to remind you that according to this forum, the increase in debt was incomparably higher and was more than 50%. [[Voice from the room: Don't remind me better, man.]] [[Voice from the room: 50% of what?]] I'm just gonna say that in three years, 50%. debt increased to PLN 935 billion. Minister! I would like us to quote concrete here, because they are very concrete, proposals and solutions that are applied in this law. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We were talking about debt. 600 million during their reign. That's the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u215	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's easy to rule when it's economical. It's easy to rule when there's high economic growth, it's really easy to rule and it's easy to spend money. In this room, the Prime Minister had just spoken to Mr Tchórzewski. [[Voice from the Chamber: The biggest economic crisis...]] I regret and regret that the Prime Minister, instead of listening to Mr Tchórzewski, whom he finally listened, did not listen to his friend, a friend of his family, Prof. Myślecki. About what? Not to build a power plant in Ostrołęka. [[He chickened out.]] You knew from the very beginning, because Professor Myślecki said from the very beginning that this power plant you want to build, you will have to strip. [[Voice from the room: 2 billion.]] And what are the facts? You're stripping this power plant. You were in charge of 1.5 billion PLN. You put a lot of money in a lot of places that you just burned out. And it's the worst part of it that you've wasted years of good economics on saving, saving, and preparing for difficult years. After fat years, it's always skinny years. Unfortunately, it's such a problem that you haven't noticed, because you don't know the economy, you don't understand it. [[Voice from the hall: They don't know the Bible.]] I'm afraid so. [[Voice from the room: 40.6%...]] Now we are in the middle of a discussion, a debate on the Anti-Inflationary Act. The truth is, this anti-inflationary bill is a extinguishing caused by the NBP and by the fire government. [[That's bullshit, bullshit.]] Instead of an anti-inflationary shield (The Bell), we need an anti-inflationary spear and sword. But neither the government nor the NBP know what they are doing, and before Poles the most expensive holidays in many years. A lot of hard months ahead of us. I want to tell you that the socialists have always introduced taxes. You've introduced a lot of taxes. You don't understand the economics. You think that if you introduce taxes, you're gonna rip off the richest entrepreneurs, and in fact, it's so sad that taxes always pay the poorest. You don't understand it, you don't know economics, you don't understand the economy. You destroyed Poland and destroyed the Polish economy. [[Applause]] [[What kind of economist showed up here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u216	Thank you. Please, Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u217	Since you are still talking about costing, etc., I will quote the results of the recent international research of Deloitte's consulting company. They sound like this: Poles are not going to save before Christmas this year. Gifts, food, travel and meetings plan to spend an average of 11% on gifts, food, travel and meetings more resources than last year. So the situation isn't that dramatic. So far, income has increased faster than prices, i.e. real wages have not fallen. I'm talking about mediums. The problem is that actually because of the monetary policy, the financial policy of the country - you are talking about the independence of the National Bank of Poland, about the fact that it has a bad policy - we have quite high economic growth and low unemployment. Recently, the American economist - read a little - judging the economic situation, introduced a new indicator. It's about combining inflation with unemployment. Only the combination of these two phenomena gives an image of the level of poverty. And so on. Spain has more than 14% unemployment. It therefore comes first when it comes to determining the level of poverty using this indicator. In Poland, on the other hand, we have a high rate of economic growth and low unemployment. This is the result of a well-run (Bell) fiscal and monetary policy. [[Voice from the room: Rather printing, printing money. This policy is working. Everything until then.]] There's no time for more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u218	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u219	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've written down some conclusions about what you're saying. I'm sorry to say one thing. During this debate on the part of the opposition, there was not a single concrete request, not a single proposal, as to what to do with inflation. There were only words, stories. There's no specifics. You criticized Minister Tchórzewski for his ideas, but you did not present any of your own ideas, no proposal. It was just pure rhetoric, and it was fake. A few specifics on my part. When it comes to the dissertation of the Public Finance Committee, last week, Wednesday, we talked about it for hours. It is worth recalling how the vote on this denier ended. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] After many hours of difficult, but in my opinion a constructive, good discussion, the dissertation was lost, was rejected by a gigantic amount of votes, because its authors, the Civic Coalition Club - the Civic Platform did not wait until the end of the committee meeting. You just left and were unable to support your own motion. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You're out.]] Today you're talking about the fact that it's a shame we didn't take this dissertation. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] How serious is it to talk about a dissertation that I think you're ashamed of yourselves because you're going out and not voting over it? Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the public finance committee ended last week. You're reminding us today. [[The voice from the hall: Your beard has grown. I think you're trying to get serious. Little Minister.]] There's been a charge that you weren't able to prepare for this discussion, because the print just showed up. That's another lie. Print on the seym pages, ladies and gentlemen, appeared yesterday. I'd understand if the bill was hundreds of pages, but it's just counting two pages. Really reading two pages since yesterday... Does that cross the line? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shock.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was also the issue of coal, that supposedly our energy is based only on coal and we are not making energy transformation. One might ask what energy transformation was carried out before 2015. I don't remember the programs that concerned the development of wind energy. Or solar energy. It wasn't, but it was good. Now let's look at the market prices of 1 MWh on the market power exchange. What are these prices in Poland and in the world, in the European Union? In Poland there are some of the lowest prices. Poland is currently an exporter of electricity to our neighbours. [[Voice from the room: Based on Russian coal, great. What a deal.]] How can you criticize Minister Tchórzewski, who took care of our energy for four years? Today, among others. Thanks to his policies, we are an exporter of coal and other countries depend on us. I understand that you would like energy to be based only on RES, but no country can do that. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister, which countries depend on our energy? San Escobar?]] Look at the stock market. We have one of the lowest prices and electricity is imported from us. [[Voice from the room: This is not a level you can listen to.]] Further issues include CO2 emissions and the Reprivatisation Fund. I think you know that at this point 25% revenue from the ETS goes to the fund for compensation for electricity costs. From next year another 40% It's gonna be on the Energy Transformation Fund. That's another line. You're saying it's all in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything, but some of the money actually affects the budget. What are we spending this money on? Firstly, for the Reprivatization Fund, thanks to which we strengthen Polish companies when it comes to carrying out a difficult process of energy transformation. We have implemented the program "My current," thanks to which Poles who want to build photovoltaic panels on the roofs of their houses. We are developing a program of clean air, thanks to which Polish cities and all Polish towns can take care of clean air. We help Poles who for various reasons are dependent on heating their homes with poor quality fuel, to introduce greener solutions. This is what CO2 revenues go to. And all the more so, the more we will mark them for energy transformation. The issue of 0-percent food VAT, High Izbo, is another issue that needs to be undone. For many months, we have been discussing zero VAT for rail transport, zero VAT for books, magazines with the European Commission. The European Commission's response is always the same - negative. There have also been discussions on zero VAT on food and here the committee has broken hands again - no. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czechs have also experimented with zero VAT, and at this point they must explain themselves to the European Commission, the same European Commission, which encourages tax reduction. So, on the one hand, the European Commission encourages tax reduction, but as the Czechs did, they now have a problem. We have tabled such a proposal to the European Commission and we hope that the Commission will lean on it. If so, we will really immediately introduce zero-percent VAT on food. Good will from the European Commission is enough. There was a question of printing money. This is the favourite argument in this House. I understand that by printing money, because this is an indeterminate concept, you just understand the high deficit of public finances. It is worth to say, then, that according to the European Commission's research, according to publicly available statistics for the last four quarters of our deficit covering everything: PFR shields, the COVID Anti-Action Fund is 2,8%. So what kind of printout is it? We fit in the Maastricht criteria. The addition of money, referring to this undefined concept, was under the rule of the Civic Platform, when the deficit in the next two years exceeded 7%. That's when, ladies and gentlemen, you should have talked about printing the money, not at a time when the deficit is 2,8%. You are very fond of how you teach us Western countries, on every subject, including public finances. So the European Commission's forecast is that again this year the deficit will be 3.3% and 1.8% next year. And in Belgium, which you might think should teach us, this deficit is 7.8%. this year, and the next year it will be 5.1%. Or should we be taught by Austria, with a deficit of 5.9% and next year's forecast will be 2,3% ? Or perhaps the model should be Germany, which, according to the European Commission's forecasts, has a public debt of 70%. ? Are these really, in the opinion of the honourable High House of State, which should tell us what public finances should look like when we have better indicators for these countries and not according to Polish forecasts, but according to the European Commission? It is worth looking at these pages and seeing that we are part of the Maastricht criteria, and dozens of European Union countries are not part of these criteria. So if the country, which is Poland, which according to the European Commission will meet the Maastricht criteria next year and dozens of other countries do not, in your opinion, print money, then what does these do in dozens of European countries? There's no answer. There is no answer because we have sound public finances and this is confirmed by the European Commission. Don't repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the false thesis about adding money, because it just doesn't work. Unless, like the Platform's governments, twice, year after year the deficit was above 7% Maybe that's when the money was printed. It's hard for me to say right now. Thank you very much for the fact that - and this is, I think, very important - and Law and Justice, and opposition clubs have announced either the support of this law or further work on it. It's a good symptom. We also guarantee that - I have already said this in my speech, but it is worth noting - we will look at inflation in the coming months and, if necessary, react strongly to it. On the other hand, we cannot seriously talk when the opposition comes up against EU legislation with proposals to reduce VAT to articles that the European Commission does not allow to reduce VAT. But if Donald Tusk and the opposition, who has good contacts in the European Commission, were able to change these rules, please. One thing the Civic Platform did in the 2011 crisis with high 5% inflation is certainly not possible to repeat. Namely, the increase of VAT to 23% cannot be repeated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u220	The discussion is closed... Excuse me, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, as corrected. [[But the name didn't come up at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u221	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know that the honourable Member is upset that it is possible to refer to these untruths... Gentlemen, time is running out. ...but really, take a tablet... [[But this is a correction at all? To the point, please.]] Calm down. Calm down, maybe he'll come out... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain calm in this courtroom. [[But why should he speak?]] Because you have an MP... But how did he, how did he... I'm in session. The Member shall take the floor in a corrective manner. You're welcome. A little ice on your head, and it's really gonna get better. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the Minister did not understand what the representatives of the clubs represented, and I think it caused him to mislead the High House. The first thing, Minister Patkowski: the National Bank of Poland is in charge of money stability, and the President of Glapiński, who seems to be rooting for the government, is doing everything he can to keep the Polish currency from being stable so that it will continue to weaken its value. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[All the presidents are rooting for governments.]] You didn't introduce... [[All the presidents...]] Seriously, please calm down. Calm down. Less nerves, less nerves. Mr President, you will be running out of time. The Minister said that no one put forward any proposals on how to fight the cost. Excuse me, and the clubs of the Civic Coalition, the Left and Poland 2050 put forward concrete proposals. Thank you very much. A suspension of the issue fee, for example. The Minister simply disobeyed and misled people. You can't do it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u222	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the excise duty law and the Act on retail tax, contained in print No. 1811, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 2 December. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice are the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Piotrkowska land in the November Uprising. The significance of Piotrków in the newly created Polish Kingdom in 1815 was not very great. The city which was once one of the most important in the Republic of Poland, first through its parliamentary traditions, later thanks to its deliberations of the Crown Court became a small, provincial, garrisoned town. Horsemen were stationed in and around the city. News of the outbreak of the revolution in Warsaw reached Piotrków on December 4, 1830. On the news of the fights in the capital, the population of Piotrków and the surrounding nobles began a spontaneous collection of money and various preciozes for insurgent purposes. Among the gifts were the most valuable family souvenirs and, as wrote by Krzysztof Urządowski, historian: wedding rings and tea rings. The formation of regular branches, as well as various voluntary units, has also begun. In the city one of the squadrons was created, as well as since mid-December 1830 a company of pedestrian shooters. Already at the beginning of that month, Security Services were set up. This unit was also intended to be a reserve for line troops, regardless of the task of order. The guards were less than 20,000. members and was supposed to be wearing a uniform at their own expense. It was a typical militia formation. Its members were patrolling and guarding in the city regardless of their normal professional duties. It was particularly important to have an inbreeding post, which was a prison. According to a few preserved documents, the inhabitants of Piotrków Trybunalski and the surrounding area have been quite effective in fulfilling their duties. The government had to carry out various tasks. On the other hand, recruits had to be acquired from regions such as Piotrków Trybunalski. It was really a huge financial effort for small towns, villages. In order to be able to meet it, the so-called. food committees. They were led by the most respected people on earth. It was hoped that they would be able to cope with the obligation to feed the soldiers. Unfortunately, these committees did not live up to their hopes. Piotrkowskie shoemakers lowered the prices of the army's shoes spontaneously. It was collected at an express rate of almost 4 t of valuable bronze scrap, then sent back to the Warsaw Arsenal. New branches have been formed since April 1831. There was an obligation to deliver trains, a subway for the army. The financial and economic effort of the inhabitants of the region was almost titanium. Visiting the old cemetery in Piotrków and looking at the mossy tombstones, you can see how many citizens of the city and surrounding area took part in the November break. Everyone left their mark, wanting to make their homeland and this small one again, and our Poland, free. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u224	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The first week of December is the European Autism Week. This celebration was initiated by the European Parliament, which in 1996 adopted the Charter of Rights of Autism. The purpose of this particular week is above all to provide a sound public knowledge of autism, to raise awareness of the needs and problems of those suffering from this disease, and to improve access to benefits for those facing this problem. Autism is a neurodevelopment disorder. People in the spectrum of autism can experience difficulties in social contacts, communication, display attachment to schematics and rituals, repeatedly repeat certain activities, otherwise, often more intensely receive sensory stimuli. Symptoms of disorders from the spectrum of autism have been noticeable since childhood, and rapid diagnosis and initiation of therapy are important for the future functioning of the child. Understanding the individual's problems, specialist care and development support provide an opportunity to minimise social and communication problems and enable self-life in adulthood. Because people in the spectrum of autism perceive the world differently, they often encounter a lack of understanding and even lack of acceptance. These reactions may result from ignorance about the functioning of autistic persons, their needs and problems. The European Autism Week aims to raise public awareness and disseminate information on this disorder. Events within the European Autism Week will take place in almost every city and are organized by institutions and organizations involved in the diagnosis and treatment of autistic disorders. According to data from the Autism-Europe organisation, about 5 million people in the European Union are affected by this type of disability and this number is increasing. In Poland we still do not know how many people have touched autism. We're based on imprecise estimates. Autism in a special way covers the whole family and together with families this number is significant. In addition to AIDS, cancer, and diabetes, the United Nations identified autism as the fourth and greatest threat to mankind. The aim of the European Autism Week is to provide as many people as possible with accurate knowledge of this disorder, because only by increasing public awareness can programmes be implemented to help parents diagnose their young children, and this already adult autists ensure safety when their parents are gone. As vice-president of the Parliamentary Group on Autism I encourage everyone to support the aspirations of parents of children with autism and those dealing with this disease to increase their knowledge of this disorder, to work together to develop standards of care and support the development of those affected by autism, so that they can function independently, to live on their own as far as possible. From 1 to 7 December, let us all join the European Autism Week. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u226	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On a joyful day of celebrating the 103rd anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, on 11 November this year, we received a message that just shocked us. Here came Agnieszka Mikołajczyk, a special person, a world-famous outstanding Polish opera singer. A beautiful, deeply believing person has passed away. A lovely man has left us. Agnieszka Mikołajczyk was born in Kutno on 7 March 1971. She started her music education at the State School of First and Second Degrees. Karol Kurpiński in Kutno, among others. in the singing class of Józef Śledzicki. After graduating from 1990 to 1996, she continued her education at the Music Academy in Poznań in the singing class of Professor Antonina Kawecka. In 1997 Agnieszka Mikołajczyk took master classes with the outstanding Italian singer Renata Scotto. In 2001 and 2006, she studied with Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, one of the most famous opera singers of the 20th century, who wrote: Aga Mikolai, because such an artistic pseudonym was worn by Agnieszka Mikołajczyk, is one of the best sopranos of our time. He's a worthy successor to my generation. The professional career of Agnieszka Mikołajczyk began at the Grand Theatre in Poznań, where she sang numerous arias and other opera parties in 1995 and 2002. In September 2002 she became a member of the soloist team Smith Staatsoper in Munich and since then her performances on the world's most famous opera scenes, her singing opera and opera arias, the names of the best orchestras that accompanied her, under the batons of the most outstanding conductors, cannot be mentioned in a short speech. This incredible career has been so sudden, so unexpectedly interrupted. Agnieszka Mikołajczyk left prematurely. Her artistic achievements at the age of 50 are impressive, and yet she could have done so much good, she could have done so much. She was planning more shows, more concerts, she was working on her PhD. She thought that she would raise a new generation of singers who would make Poland famous and deserve well in the history of music. I had the honor of knowing Agnieszka personally. She was not only a special person because of her artistic craftsmanship, she was just a warm woman, smiling, warm. Despite her many activities and artistic travels around the world, she was able to find time for her loved ones and places. As far as possible, she visited her mother still living in Kutno, her family and friends, and prayed at the graves of her father, brother, and others who were resting on the Kutno cemetery. Agnieszka Mikołajczyk has already completed her earthly pilgrimage. Yes, a pilgrimage because it was a person of deep faith. She's been connected to the Church since she was a kid. First with the parish of St. Lorenzo, then with the parish of St. Jadwiga Queen of Poland in Kutno. With her singing she enriched the theme of Holy Mass, especially during the most important celebrations and church holidays. She helped people by singing charity to the needy. She shared herself as beautifully as she could. Posthumously appointed Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, honored by Agnieszka Mikołajczyk President of the Republic of Poland Mr Andrzej Duda, let him be a symbol of our gratitude for who he was and what he was. Today, the funeral celebrations of Agnieszka Mikołajczyk took place in Kutno. After Mass. Her temporal remains rested in the local cemetery. From now on, my dear Agnieszka, sing only to God, sing to Him for all eternity. We believe that you will always be close to Him. In us will remain the memory of you, of your outstanding artistic skill and your humanity. We're gonna miss you, but we're gonna keep listening to your wonderful song written on records and various memory media. And we're gonna remember you beautifully because only the most beautiful memories you've ever earned. Rest in peace. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I kindly ask all of you to rise up and a moment of silence to commemorate Agnieszka Mikołajczyk, one of the most outstanding Polish artists. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Eternal rest please give her, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Eternal rest please give her, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Eternal rest please give her, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u228	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On December 4, i.e. the next Saturday, Poland 2050 Economic Forum of the Movement will be held. For six years we have all felt that economic policy is like uncontrolled chaos. Decisions are taken in isolation from economic realities, very often at the last moment. The case and the results of the political surveys are decided, and the rules adopted are so that it is not able to read this not only by the Member before the committee meeting, but also by experts who have the right to apply it later. It can't go on like this. Economic policy needs a fresh, broad look. He needs to listen to the voice of entrepreneurs, employees and other institutions. Economic policy today needs reasonable proposals. You will find all this in our economic program, which we will present next Saturday. That's why next Saturday, December 4th, be with us. We start at an hour. 10. I invite you to watch the coverage on our social media channels, to follow what is happening, by means of mass media, to comment and engage in our activities. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u230	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish independent media on 3 December 2021 reported that the government intends to award an order for construction of a fence on the border with Belarus without any public tender and without any public procedure for a huge amount of PLN 1.5 billion. It intends to commission two companies, the president of one of these companies being an active and prominent activist and a law and justice officer. According to the government's representative, two Polish companies were selected for the preparation and implementation of the state border security, because they are large Polish companies which guarantee the quality and efficient execution of this priority order. Since PLN 1.5 billion, which the government intends to spend on the construction of the fence, is neither the private money of Mr.Chodkiewicz's representative, nor the private money of PiS politicians operating in the team approving the decisions of your proxy, nor even the private money of the members of the government, I would like to ask from this place Prime Minister Morawiecki, firstly whether the selected contractors are the only large Polish companies in Poland which guarantee the quality and efficient execution of this priority order. Second question: On what basis did the government consider that it was these two companies, and not some other Polish companies that are supposed to earn billions in the war with Belarus? Third question: Isn't there other large companies in Poland that guarantee the quality and efficient performance of this order? Are the other Polish companies not enough Polish for the government or for the politicians of Law and Justice not enough PiS-owskie? Perhaps the selected contractors are indeed the best companies to execute this government order. Therefore, both companies, and in particular both presidents, should be interested not to receive billions from state orders in the atmosphere of the scandal at the green table instead of in fair, public competition. Today, the principles, reasons and circumstances of the choice of these companies are unclear, perceived by voters as social and political, and no propaganda will obscure it, even this masterful one in the performance of the Prime Minister. I call on the government to spend money honestly and rationally from the state budget, because it is the money of all Polish citizens. I also call on the government to select a fence contractor at the border with Belarus in fair and transparent proceedings. So that in the fight against the Lukashenka regime there would be no scams, doubts and irregularities such as the fight against the pandemic. The Sejm should expect information from the Prime Minister on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u232	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have repeatedly said from this place that Warmia, Mazury and Powisla are discriminated against in almost all strategic and development investments. We are the region with the weakest road and rail infrastructure. We have one of the weakest medical offers, medical care. The latest data indicate that the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship once again recorded the highest unemployment in Poland - in September 2021 it amounted to 8.7% , against an average of 5.6% and the lowest 3.3% in Wielkopolska Voivodship. Warmińsko-Mazurskie is the only voivodship in which unemployment did not fall compared to August this year. This is not just a trend in recent months. Poland's two speeds - escaping dreams and growing differences are a daily picture of north-eastern Poland and Warmia-Mazury districts. Border towns and municipalities cut off from public transport. Poverty remains the biggest problem in the region. The average gross remuneration in the enterprise sector in September 2021 in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship amounted to PLN 4911.28, while in Poland it amounted to PLN 5841.16. In 2011, the rate of risk of relative poverty in the region was 24.2%. That's the second score in the country. In 35% of households, income was too low to allow itself to meet basic needs. Although the situation in Warmia and Mazury is improving over the years, this improvement is slower than in other regions of the country. We stay behind and fall off our feet, and the rest of the country is running away. Without the strategic actions of the central authorities, investments in infrastructure and road and rail transport will not change in this region. Poland must develop in a sustainable way, and every citizen and every citizen should have equal access to basic public services. And I would like to appeal to the government for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u234	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We started work on the budget for 2022. I seek, as every year, the most important investments for the inhabitants of Pomerania. One of my priorities is Kwidzyn's ring road in the trail of a national road 55. I'm going in, I've tabled an amendment to the budget for the following year, by 20 million. For 20 years, Kwidzyn's inhabitants have been demanding the construction of this ring road. Between 2002 and 2004, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways signed an agreement and then an agreement with Kwidzyn on the preparation, execution and financing of study and conceptual works on the ring road. Therefore, the route of the ring road has already been selected and is already included in the local spatial planning plans of Kwidzyna and neighbouring municipalities. There was also a multi-discipline concept for the construction of this ring road. More than 746 thousand have been spent together for this purpose. zł. The city of Kwidzyn is one of the largest cities in Poland without a bypass, which are not included in the program of construction of 100 bypasses. I mean, why? I also asked this question to the Minister of Infrastructure. I have received quite a broad answer, which I will briefly quote: I would like to inform you that the investment is included in the reserve list of 100 bypasses for the years 2020-2030, i.e. it will be possible to implement within the fixed limit in later years in case of savings in the tender procedures concerning investments, bypasses that have been included in the basic list of 100 bypasses for the years 2020-2030. Which is probably never. I therefore call on the Minister to include this important investment in the budget and to support my amendment to the budget for the following year, for money to start implementing this investment. Especially since, as I stress once again, large money has already been spent on this ring road, to prepare its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 November 2021 the first thread of the Tomaszów Lubelski ring road was put into service during the S17 expressway. The plans for the construction of the ring road still go back to the 20th interwar anniversary, but over the next few decades this investment was not implemented. With economic development, the increase in trade with Ukraine, Tomaszów became a transit city, through which more and more trucks passed. This movement was very burdensome for the inhabitants. According to the latest survey in the framework of the general measurement of traffic by Tomaszów Lubelski, approx. 18 thousand passes. vehicles within 24 hours. For a number of years, this investment remained in the city's dream. For a long time, they were made empty promises by politicians for whom the construction of the ring road was intended to deliver only votes in subsequent elections. They made their true intentions about investment in Lublin and Eastern Poland themselves in few parliamentary words, which cannot be quoted on this speaker. As the United Rights camp took power in 2015, investment policy changed especially in eastern Poland, where there were huge deficiencies in road infrastructure. By decision of the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the construction of the Tomaszów ring road was supported by over 280 million PLN and 17 November 2017. The General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways Branch in Lublin signed an agreement with the contractor for the implementation of the investment. Work on construction started on 16 March 2019. On 20 September of the following year an annex to the contract was signed, the subject of which was the design and construction of the second road. The value of the complementary contract is about 74 million PLN and the planned termination is the last quarter of 2022. The nearly 10 km long bypass is an important element of the construction of the two-way S17 expressway, which ultimately includes the section from Sands to the border crossing in Hrebenne. This road will connect the southern part of the Lublin Voivodeship with Warsaw, increase the safety of road users, significantly reduce travel times, improve the comfort of life of the inhabitants of Tomaszów and affect the economic development of this part of Poland. The quality of the S17 road is also very important for international trade involving the Black Sea market. At this point, on behalf of the inhabitants of Tomaszów Lubelski and the whole district of Tomaszowski, I thank all people and institutions who contributed to the construction of the ring road. I thank the Polish Government for deciding to implement this investment, the investor, i.e. the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways Branch in Lublin, the contractor - Mota-Engil. According to the information provided by the General Directorate, this year a tender will be launched for the construction of another three sections of the S17 expressway between Zamość and Hrebenn. This is not only another very good information for all road users, but also for those for whom sustainable development of Poland is an economic and social priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u238	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This week we celebrated the next 191th anniversary of the November Uprising. It is also the Day of Podchoraży established for the commemoration of the 29th November 1830 event, when the Podchoraży Siechota School in Warsaw began the attack on Belvedere. Currently, Podchoraż Day is celebrated especially solemnly at military universities: Military Technical Academy in Warsaw, Academy of Land Forces in Wrocław, Academy of Navy in Gdynia, Aviation Military Academy in Dęblin. In the vicinity of my place of residence, in Lublin, there were two battles. The first of them, the winner, took place on 14 February 1831 at Stoczek Łukowski. The Polish troops under the command of General Józef Dwernicki destroyed the Russian corps of Gen. Geismar. This event was commemorated with monuments, plaques, among others. on the grave of an unknown soldier, in the poems of Gustav Ehrenberg and Wincenty Pol. The memory of the winning battle continues until today and manifests itself in many events organized by local governments and municipalities of Stoczek Łukowski. That's, among other things. Exhibitions, popular science sessions, and street runs beat the cannons under Stokzki. This year is unique because the anniversary coincides with the 475th anniversary of King Zygmunt's granting of the old locational privilege of the town of Stoczek Łukowski. I would also like to mention the defeated battle fought on 19 June 1831 near Lysobaki, today by the Lakers, also known in historiography as the so-called. A balding expedition. Among the reasons for failure are tactical errors, bad command, lack of preparation, craftsmanship, which gave reasons for arrest and accusations of betrayal of General Jankowski and General Bukowski. For the local community of the municipality of the Lake Battle is not a cause for shame. On the contrary, following the solemn anniversary of this battle, the local government commemorated the ancestors - soldiers who fought and died for free Poland. May this lost journey and battle be life's teachers for present and future generations. In retrospect, we can judge the November Uprising differently. However, what should not raise our doubts is the fact that we have, we have and - hopefully - we will have national heroes, also in uniforms. Not everyone's gonna sign up for history cards by name, but everyone's gotta remember. In the face of many threats, we must remember today our compatriots wearing uniforms, defending our freedom, about police officers, Border Guards, soldiers of the Polish Army. We stand a wall behind history, stand a wall behind Polish uniform, stand a wall behind our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u240	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, there have been loud examples of illegal redundancies of leaders and union leaders. The exemptions of Magdalena Malinowska from Amazon and Mariusz Ławnik from mBank were clearly unlawful and were further examples of anti-union repression. Unfortunately, the stories of Magdalena and Mariusz are not new or isolated. In Poland, workers' rights and trade union activities have been illegal and punishable for years. In 2017, Kaufland employees from Wrocław joined the Inter-Business Association of the Free Trade Union. The employer's answer was instant. Two trade unionists, including the vice-president of the Przemysław Krajda Union, were released indiscipline, even though the country was subject to trade union protection. He was fired without consulting the union. This was an obvious and gross violation of the law. The process of getting back to work lasted five years. In the end, they ended in the Supreme Court with a conviction of one of the members of the Board of Kaufland. The court also ordered the release of trade union workers to work after 5 years. Even though Kaufland lost in all instances, he managed to achieve his goal. Many workers were successfully intimidated because they were simply afraid to join a trade union in fear of being fired. However, the union survived repression, managed to rebuild, but at that time the situation of the workers deteriorated significantly. Employment was reduced and fewer people were burdened with the same amount of work. Therefore, the unionists are alerting that Kaufland's work is now overpowering. The employees the company wants to get rid of are scared to say that they will either leave voluntarily, or they will be released disciplinaryly, even though there is no basis for it. According to the trade unions, mobbing in Kaufland is widespread and the employer is not trying to counter it in any way. Therefore, the trade unions have presented this matter to the board of directors, but they have been looking forward to any response, not even to the meeting, for months. Despite this hard work and difficult conditions, salaries in Kaufland are low and only slightly exceed the minimum salary. In view of all these circumstances, there is a collective dispute in Kaufland at the moment, a strike referendum. Employees demand increases and a real fight against mobbing. Since the management of Kaufland consistently disregards the social side and refuses to meet, on December 6th, next Monday, determined trade unionists organize a protest at the headquarters of the company in Wrocław. I personally declare my presence at this protest. The Party Together is on the side of the employees. We support trade unionists, we are in solidarity with those who organize in the workplace, and we oppose any repression against trade unions. Unfortunately, the Polish state does not protect trade unionists today. The trade union protection enshrined in Polish law is only theoretical and does not work in practice. The rules are dead, as these numerous examples show, the release of trade unionists is on the agenda. That is why it is so important at this point to appreciate all those who are organizing themselves in the workplace, so important is our solidarity with trade unions. I will appear personally on Monday at the protest at Kaufland headquarters. I encourage everyone to support all trade unionists, including those from Kaufland in Wrocław. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For more than a week in the media space there has been further appalling information about the shameful business of Deputy Minister of Sport and Tourism in the government of Mateusz Morawiecki Łukasz Meiza. On the basis of a press release published by free media, the portal Wirtualna Polska, on 24 November this year, entitled "Jak Łukasz Mejza decided to earn on suffering," by Simon Jadczak and Mateusz Ratajczak, along with Ms Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, we submitted the first notification of the possibility of committing a crime to the district prosecutor's office in Zielona Góra. On 25 November, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Left, I filed a motion for the immediate resignation of the Minister accused of such terrible acts by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The facts presented in the press release are as follows. The company of Deputy Minister Mejza in her advertising leaflet cynically promised to treat many incurable diseases with therapy, which is considered untested and even dangerous by doctors both in Poland and in the world. The cost of such treatment started at 80,000. $, which means that desperate parents paid such amounts into Mr. Masa's account, motivated by love for their suffering children, hoping for their recovery. Mr Łukasz Mejza not only served as president of the company, but also actively sought out patients willing to benefit from therapy by searching for distraught, hopeless web portals. Trefne treatments were based on fertilised stem cells, which is a complete denial of the government's policy, of which Minister Mejza is a member. Between 16 January and 17 March 2020, Mr Meza's assistants registered as many as 21 associations, which helped to obtain customers, but were also to conduct collections for foreign therapies, I remind you, by a fraudulent method. The company which attracts desperate, often terminally ill people and their families for colossal expenses as a basic activity in PKD gives the organization of tourism. It is no secret that this company does not appear in the register of organizers of tourism and entrepreneurs kept by the Marshal of Lubuskie Voivodeship. The above register is supervised by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, in which Łukasz Mejza himself has been Deputy Minister since mid-October. Mr. Meyza's company has not yet submitted a mandatory report on its activities to the court. So many facts. Prime Minister Morawiecki! Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński! Minister Ziobro! Marshal Witek! Abraham Lincoln said that the surest way to reveal the character of people is not to oppose fate, but to give them power. Why do you have such nasty characters? As a result of your silence and inaction, which you fear, you are certainly not afraid to stand side by side with a man suspected of anti-human crimes motivated by greed. There are no good parliamentary and adequate words to illustrate correctly the disgustingness of Luke Meisa's work. Absolutely profiting from human misery, premeditating the false hope of mortally ill people today is a moral summary of the United Right-wing governments you agree to. Your authority in the name of maintaining the majority without blinking an eye tolerates every wickedness in its ranks. This is another political chameleon whose membership in a ruling or opposition camp depends solely on what is more profitable. In this field it does not stand out from the background many opportunists, while his vile activity - certainly yes. After the entry published by Robert Starowski on one of the social networks, we could not remain indifferent, since in public space there is a clear violation of the principles of democracy and the falsifying of letters of support. Therefore, with Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, a Member of Lubuska's land, we made a second notification of the possibility of a crime by Mr. 248 of the Penal Code on the suspicion of forgery of signatures under letters of support. This is another suspicion for which Minister Mejza should immediately receive resignation, disappear from public life and become an object of interest to the justice system. Facts about Luke Meisa's activities are extremely shocking, not only for the public, the opposition, but also for the Members of the Law and Justice and the United Right themselves. This was shown by today's and yesterday's votes. Political divisions in this matter should and should not matter. It's about normal human decency. The place is a year younger than me. It represents everything that me and most young politicians and politicians fight every day - political pathology. It's a disgraceful success of Masa. He accumulated the entire pathology of the Third Republic of Poland when he was 30 years old. The disgrace for the Polish government and parliament is every next day on which this man performs his function. Parliamentarians are clear today: we do not want to work, debate and vote in the presence of a man suspected of such abominable acts. It's a total fall in parliamentarianism. The Poles and Poles, and above all the victims who speak in public space, look at you, and you smiled and full of phrases on your lips wipe your hands, because this time, because for a while you still have two immoral voices of advantage in parliament. Until then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u244	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I address you on behalf of many parents, children and young people suffering from depression. Depression is a disease that may be life-threatening. It is a long-lasting, harmful and serious state of overly depressed mood and mental, behavioural and physical symptoms. According to the World Health Organization, about 1.5 million Poles suffer from depression, and in a few years it will be the most common disease in the world. All this indicates that it will take second place among the diseases that are the most common causes of premature death or injury to health. What does the government do in Poland? Unfortunately, he only serves a campaign that raises this problem, instead of real helping with the treatment. This problem will not be solved by the cheap cost and noise around it. Yeah, 'cause unfortunately, all you care about is the media noise that tells you something's going on. And as a result, there were no psychologists, psychiatrists, or specialist departments. Even the children are waiting a few months for a private visit. Is that supposed to help them? Depression can be cured, that's all our country should take seriously. Because this is a very serious issue for those who suffer from it and for those who suffer with them. I would add that this problem also applies to many adults who are in the same situation. And what have you done with this subject? Nothing, I'm afraid. Specialists are needed, and posters, trainings or campaigns should be a continuation and addition to already secured basic needs, not a replacement. That is why I am asking from this point of view to address this issue urgently and honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u247	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! People of Upper Silesia and the whole of Poland on 20 November this year. They enjoyed the beatification of Silesian priest John Francis Macha, who served God, people and his homeland with his whole life. The life and patriotic attitude of the blessed will remain for the years to come a testimony of the truth and love of the homeland, as well as a proof of the criminal Nazi occupation in Poland. Let the heroic attitude of Fr. The machas and many more or less famous heroes who shed blood behind our beloved homeland will be a model and inspiration for us in our daily care for Poland. Today's times are a challenge for us to show special respect for priests and to teach our children and young people respect for pastors in the face of the growing aggression against the Catholic Church and the clergy in recent years. This is a reason for deep reflection, which raises concerns about the future of our homeland, which is our common good. Blessed Fr. Francis Macha teaches us courage and great respect for the Church. The task of parents, educators, but also of us politicians, is not only the reliable transfer of knowledge, including historical knowledge, but above all responsibility for the future of Poland. We see what's happening in the west of Europe. Catholic churches are set on fire, closed or converted into discos or bars. We must never allow the trend of laicisation and atheisation to move to Poland. It is our duty to uphold our sacred values, such as faith, homeland, patriotism, in a spirit of fidelity over 1,500 years old heritage of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u248	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 December, the timetable for trains is changing, and thousands of rail passengers are waiting for this schedule. However, for some of them this expectation is full of fear, because the changes made constitute a judgment for them. It's a sentence to pick up trains that go to work, school, doctor, family or friends every day. They are forced to change their plans, adjust their working hours to a new distribution, which is not always possible, reorganize their lives, and in extreme cases they even have to give up work. These personal tragedies take place throughout Poland. They didn't miss my family's Kutn either. The voices of the people who are disappointed with the proposed offer on rail transport, who are concerned about what awaits them, are coming to me. Above all, they will be faced with a deterioration of the railway offer with transports to the capital. In Warsaw there are many dickheads and many dickheads, as well as many people from surrounding towns. They work on different changes, so they need connections to respond to their real needs. Unfortunately, the new railway schedule responds to them. On the contrary, it makes more trouble. I've been contacted by employees and employees who will not be able to make it to the morning shift starting at hours. 7, because the first train from Kutna arrives in Warsaw a few minutes after this hour. What's it gonna look like in reality? The morning TLK train from Kutna will leave at hours. 5.08 p.m. 7.03 at the Warsaw Central Station. Another train of the Mazowiecki Railway leaving at hours. 5.22 will arrive in Warsaw at 5 p.m. 7.10. Travelers from Kutna had previously had the opportunity to travel with a change to make time. But this possibility was also taken from them with this new schedule. Trouble also applies to evening hours. I've been texted by passengers who finish their shift at about an hour. 22, and the last train home, Kutna leaves a few minutes after hours. 20. Then there's no direct connection. So I'd like to ask you what to do with these people. How else are they supposed to get to work, and how are they supposed to get home from work? Should we tell them to move to the cars? Do you want them to find another job somewhere else? This is not how an efficient collective communication system is built. This is not how passengers are encouraged to use collective communication. Such changes in timetables on the railways, changes for the worse, seriously undermine confidence in public transport. For me, as president of the Parliamentary Group on The fight against Transport Exclusion is unthinkable. As a native dickhead, I am appalled by the disrespectful treatment of passengers who so far travelled by trains of Kutno-Warsaw relations. In their case I intervene, in them I send interpelations and inquiries. I appeal to the Minister of Infrastructure for a rational transport policy that takes account of the needs of travellers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u250	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u251	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that I cordially appealed to Marshal Witek to work as soon as possible on the resolution of the Sejm which explicitly condemns the scandalous anti-Semitic events in Kalisz during the celebration of the feast of independence, when at the rally it was publicly called to hate and insult the Jewish community. They called for violence and chanted slogans containing insulting threats to the lives of the Jewish people. There was also a public burning of the statute of Kalisz from the 13th century, which guaranteed the Jews the right to live and stay in Poland at that time. These disgraceful events echoed not only in Poland but also abroad. In this case, the voice of the Polish Sejm, a voice that explicitly and decisively condemns these riots, must not be missed. The Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities was held on 30 November. During the meeting, we listened to information from the Attorney General, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of Police and other persons. Despite the actions of the government and its organs, the problem of anti-Semitism in Poland is growing. Worse still, more anti-Semitic excesses appeared in Kalisz during the proceedings of our committee. Despite the assurances of the authorities, it is clear that the state policy in this area is insufficient. There are no measures to prevent the growth of anti-Semitic behaviour and to ensure that the principle of zero tolerance for anti-Semitic behaviour in Poland actually applies. Unfortunately, all sources indicate that anti-Semitics feel, you can say, completely unpunished and therefore riots of this type are happening and are becoming more frequent. This issue has a huge international impact on the perception of Poland as an open, tolerant and respectful country of the rights of national and ethnic minorities, religious minorities. That is why we parliamentarians cannot remain silent. There can be no consent to such disgusting excesses of hatred. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland should give a clear signal to the international opinion that there is no consent to anti-Semitism and xenophobia in Poland. I therefore appeal to you, Marshal Witek, that this work on the resolution should be undertaken as soon as possible and that this resolution should be adopted by the High House as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u252	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is right to improve the situation of voluntary firefighters, strengthen their role, honor long-term and sacrificial service. The introduction of a rescue allowance of PLN 200 for rescue firefighters of CSR, who have been active for at least 25 years in the case of men and 20 years in the case of women, is an undisputed matter. However, rescue benefit it's only part of all the cases covered by the Volunteer Fire Department Act. This year, we have come across new, controversial ideas about the future of the TSOs and how to plan them. On the one hand, in May a project was launched to create civil protection formations from voluntary firefighters and the Association of Polish TSOs. On the other hand, in September, information began to come in on the secret work on the CSR Act, without consulting those concerned. The regulations are introduced from the top, without consulting the volunteers' firefighters. This mode of action is dangerous because volunteers can't be forced to do anything. As a result, you can just lose them, just like we lose the staff of the State Fire Department, where people just don't want to work anymore. It is not possible to make an organisation such as the Association of TSOs of the Republic of Poland and associations such as TSOs directly into a civil defence formation. This is guaranteed by the Constitution. And when we are talking about civil defence services, it is governed by the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, whose art. 142 points out who is in this service and who may be released from it. And above all, it concerns citizens, not organisations. Such decisions cannot be taken without consulting the environment concerned. There are about 30,000 firefighters. and CSR members - about 700,000. They must not be underestimated. Members of voluntary firefighters like all other rescuers and social activists and enthusiasts of firefighters entered the ranks of an association with high goals. None of them signed permission to be militarized. Of course, there are emergency situations in which all services work together, but associations, which have saved, helped, education, culture in their statutes, cannot be a top-down command for the militarized formation. Other actions need to be taken when there is disaster and others when martial law is declared. When life and health are at risk during fires, during floods or accidents, volunteers' guards are in a hurry to help, but defence formation in a situation of martial law or exceptional law can be used, for example. to suppress strikes or street protests. I'm not sure about 700,000. Volunteer firefighters dreamt of this, joining the CSR. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u254	Thank you, sir. And please, Mrs Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Today there was a big event in our parliament, and especially in the chapel of the Seym, because the relics of the Polish patron, St. Andrzej Boboli. Before this happened, by the will of the majority of Members and Senators of our Parliament, a letter was sent to the curator of the National Sanctuary of St. Andrzej Boboli in Warsaw Waldemar Borzyszkowski, in which Members and Senators wrote: Honorable Father Kustosz! As parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland, we ask the curator to pass on the relics of St. Andrzej Boboli, patron of Poland, to the sejm chapel located in the building of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. St. Andrzej Bobola was born in 1591 in Strachocin near Sanoka in Podkarpackie Voivodeship. He was a Polish Catholic clergyman, a Jesuit, a zealous missionary called the apostle Polesia, the author of the Lviv vows of King John Casimir. He died a martyr's death in Janów Poleski, brutally chased by the Cossacks on 16 May 1657. St. Andrzej Bobola was beatified in 1853, and canonized in Rome on 17 April 1938. Since then, he has been considered a patron of Poland, but the outbreak of World War II has interrupted and postponed the official position of the Church in this matter for many years. It was not until 16 May 2002 that the ceremony of announcing the document of Pope John Paul took place in Warsaw. II, which included St. Andrzej Bobola to those who are to patronize Poland. The figure of St. Andrzej Boboli, the first patron of Poland, is an uncompromising example of the struggle for faith and values associated with it. At a time when we are increasingly confronted with the phenomenon of depreciating the importance of Catholic religion in public space and undermining the centuries-old foundation on which the history of our homeland is being built, which is Christian civilization, we, Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland, want to resist everything that leads to it. Looking at the life attitude of this martyr, the first patron of Poland, we believe that the presence of His relics in the Seym Chapel and His cult will have an important impact on parliamentarians who pray and live spiritual lives in the chapel, and on the work of the entire parliament. In view of the above, we address our request to the curator for the transfer to the chapel of the main relic of Poland, St. Andrzej Boboli. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the image of St. Andrzej Boboli, whose relics from today are located in the Seym Chapel. This greatest martyr of the Church, strangely enough, had to ask us to worship him so that we might recognize him, and the curator in God's Word, which was in this morning's Holy Mass, reminded us of this extraordinary story. St. Andrzej Bobola is the patron of Poland and is the patron of unity. I think it is high time everyone, regardless of the options, because the letter to the curator was signed by Members of various options so that we all visit St. Andrzej Bobola, maybe they made friends with him. And I have this dream, and I wish that you and I should gradually introduce unity in this Parliament so that we can start to respect each other, discuss Poland, not partyly oppose and build further divisions. St. Andrzej Bobolo, protect Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u256	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u257	Statement on Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński and other representatives of the Columbus generation. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński is one of the patrons of the past year. Not only did we celebrate the 100th anniversary of his birthday, it turns out that exactly 80 years ago during classes on secret sets the poet met his future wife and muse Barbara Srapczyńska. Both died in the Warsaw Uprising. We all know exactly what the marriages of young people were like during the German occupation. We also know how dramatic it was to create a poet. All the more worthy of great respect is the subject raised by Baczyński: love, fidelity, homeland, but also the tragedy of human fate, sacrifice and fear. From this place I would like to pay tribute to the remaining representatives of the Columbus generation who died during the German occupation: Tadeusz Gajce, Jan Romock, Zdzisław Stroiński, Józef Szczepański and Andrzej Trzebiński. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u258	Dear Marshal! I would like to inform you that by vote 20 at the 43rd meeting of the Sejm on 2 December 2021, at 3 p.m. 14.25, paragraph 16.: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws, print No. 1693, there was a mistake and I cast my vote in favour of the proposal to reject the project at first reading. It was an obvious mistake on my part, my voice was against it. Please attach my statement to the minutes of the Sejm meeting on this day - vote 20 at the 43rd Sejm meeting on 2 December 2021 at 3 p.m. 14.25, paragraph 16.: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws, print No 1693. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u259	During the 21st vote, paragraph 6, the voting system failed to pass my vote. I therefore ask you to include my statement in the minutes of the sitting of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u260	Opening of the Regional Remembrance Education Centre in Tarnów. This week the Regional Centre for Remembrance Education - Museum of the National Army was opened in Tarnów. The media shows that youth education is the primary objective of this place, and the main task of the museum is to restore and transfer historical memory to subsequent generations. It welcomes the declaration that in the first days of its operation the facility is to be made available to visitors for free. The creation of an increasing number of such places, in my opinion, is, at least to some extent, the effect of giving historical policy greater importance in the last few years. Lying off the subject of Cursed Soldiers is, of course, a prime example of the dissemination of this phenomenon, but it must be emphasized that the well-managed work in this direction undoubtedly results in an increase in interest in history in general, both in national and local terms. I believe that creating places such as the Regional Centre for Memory Education is important, because it is not necessary to convince anyone how important the words are known to everyone: "This will be the kind of things that will be common for their young people to hide."
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the construction of the new county hospital's surgical pavilion has ended. Lech and Maria Kaczyński in Pawns. On Monday 22 November, the building was officially opened. The event was attended by parliamentarians, authorities of Radom County and other numerous guests. The modern hospital in Pionki is created on the initiative of the new Radom County Board. The decision to build the first pavilion was made in 2019. The object was designed by the architect Jolanta Nowak from Gliwice. In July 2020, ARBUD, a Radom company, was selected as a contractor. Its employees entered the construction site in the first half of August 2020. The construction of the new pavilion and its equipment cost exactly PLN 26 141 361 and was financed mainly from the budget of the Radom district and government grants. Numerous guests participated in the official opening of the new facility. Among them were: Paweł Szrot - Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Anna Goławska - Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Artur Standowicz - Vice-voivode of Mazowiecki, Marek Suski, Andrzej Wytowniak and Agnieszka Górska, and my humble person, as well as Senator Stanisław Karczewski, MEP Adam Bielan and representatives of local governments of Radom County. At the beginning of the ceremony, Waldemar Trelka, a Radom starist, appeared as the host of the talk, who recalled the history of the hospital's uprising as early as 20 years ago. It was only a change of authority in the county with the full support of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki that allowed the dream of both residents and medical personnel to be realized. Bernard Dudek, director of the hospital, also said a few words of thanks to the guests. The fact that we are here is proof that dreams come true, that faith and great determination bring the desired results," said the director of the hospital in Pionki. There are more than 100 different rooms in the new pavilion building on two floors and one underground floor. In each branch there are 10 double rooms with bathrooms for patients, equipped with modern, electrically controlled beds. There is also an operating block and a room for the state-of-the-art CT scanner and a digital X-ray camera. In the underground of the building there are clinics and night and Christmas medical care. There is no shortage of rooms and medical facilities. There is already an agreement on the next stage of the investment. In the second pavilion, so-called. conservative, there will be an internal unit with magnetic resonance imaging and rehabilitation. The county authorities have already secured over PLN 36 million for its construction. A grant from the Government Local Investment Fund and funds from the county and hospital budget also helped to finance the investment. The city of Pionka transferred PLN 1 million to the construction of the second stage. In addition to the conservatory pavilion, an additional boiler room will be built for the entire hospital complex, with connection to the heating network and central heating system in the hospital buildings. There is also to be a container building, a modular world for waste, as well as a new fence for the entire hospital area equipped with gates controlled automatically. In conclusion, the contractor is also to develop green areas and build access roads, along with an external lighting network. The third stage of the investment will be the renovation of the pre-war building of the former surgery in which the hospital administration is to be located, moved there from the existing premises located on the street. Sienkiewicz. The hospital in Pionki is a powerful example of the fact that for PiS the development of hospital treatment in powiats is important in the implementation of a programme guaranteeing similar availability of health services for all citizens, regardless of their place of residence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our government is implementing the principles of sustainable development in practice. Following a policy of equal opportunities, the Council of Ministers adopted another development programme. This is about the Polish Government Fund: Strategic Investment Programme. This means further financial support, which will go to both large cities and many smaller cities and towns. Government Fund Polski Ład: The Strategic Investment Programme aims to increase the scale of public investment thanks to the non-refundable support of projects carried out by local government units: municipalities, powiats and cities or their associations throughout Poland. In October, the first recruitment was announced within the framework of the Government Fund of Poland Load. The total funding of PLN 23 billion will reach more than 97% local governments. Over the next few years, the government will allocate PLN 100 billion for this purpose. I am delighted that, once again, the pole region has been supported by the government. Previously, projects were implemented under the Government Road Development Fund, the Government Local Investment Fund or the Government Bus Transport Fund. This time from the Strategic Investment Programme more than PLN 156 million went to the tasks carried out in the gminas and gminas of Łódź. Unrefundable funding for social, infrastructure and social investment has been granted: - City of Słupsk for all applications submitted by the local government - PLN 36,5 million for construction of a reservoir of retention and drainage of rainwater at the intersection of ul. Piłsudskiego and ul. Małcużyńskiego; reconstruction of the streets: Wiejska, Rybacka, Norwid with reconstruction of the intersection of ul. Kilinski and Kaszubska, as well as the development of the area of the Culture and Leisure Park in Słupsk with the addition of new functions. In the city the investment will be carried out to adapt the historic granary in Słupsk for cultural, social, educational and tourist purposes (investment carried out by the Pomeranian local government), which received funding of 15 282 thousand. zł; - Municipality of Smoldzin - PLN 4 046 027 intended for thermomodernization of the school and preschool complex building in Smoldzin excluding replacement of heating system; - Ustka County - 2, 850 thousand. PLN for the construction and modernisation of sewage pumping plants in the Ustka Municipality; - Polski district - 15 200 thousand. zł for reconstruction of the 1172G district road in Dębnica Kaszubska and reconstruction of the 1115G district road in Wytowno - Bydlino section; - Damnica County - 9 130 thousand. PLN for the reconstruction of the main residential roads in Damnica and for the construction of the municipal health and rehabilitation centre after-COVID; - Dębnica Kaszubska - PLN 9 316 194 for reconstruction of the road Skarszów Górny along with the sewage, water and rain system network and reconstruction and construction of water and sewage infrastructure in the towns of Jamrzyn, Ozda, Motarzyno and Krzyznan; - Gmina Główczyce - PLN 7 249 302.71 for reconstruction of communal roads in Główczyce, streets: Lipowa, Świerkowa, Brzozowa, Klonowa, Ogrodowa, Fruitowa, Jarzębinowa, Kwiatowa; - Kępice County - 10,840,000. PLN to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants of the region through the extension of the water and sewage system; - Municipality of Kobylnica - 12 817 694.50 PLN for the construction of a bulk system in Komorczyn with the discharge of waste water transit into the existing bulk network in Sicewice and reconstruction of the municipal road No 114082G - ul. Transport in Kobylnica with construction of accompanying infrastructure; - City of Ustka - 12 Nine hundred and twenty thousand. zł for reconstruction of ul. A field in the mouth; - Power City - 8 556,000. PLN for modernization of educational facilities in the municipality of Potęgowo: Primary School of Łupawa and Primary School of Power and in ordering water and sewage management in Dąbrowa, Potęgowo, Malczkówk; Słupsk Municipality - 11 970 thousand. PLN for the construction of a water supply network, reconstruction of road infrastructure and modernization of a water supply network together with a water treatment station, as well as for the reconstruction of roads and a rain network in the city of Kusowo. The new projects will significantly improve the comfort of life of the inhabitants of Słupsk and the region. Additional measures will allow further development of road infrastructure. This is a very important issue due to the key tourism sector for the region. I am also glad that the Red Spichlerz in Słupsk will get another life, and the Park of Culture and Leisure will get a new glow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u263	Declaration by the Members on the emerging business incubators in Lubin. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Located in south-western Poland, in Lower Silesia, in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship Lubin is one of the main centers of the Legnicko-Głogowskie Miedzi district. It has been linked for years to the mining and processing industry of copper ore, the richest deposits of which are located in Europe under this city. Lubin is one of the most dynamic and developing urban centres in Lower Silesia, and KGHM Polska Miedź SA is its undoubted business card. This is confirmed by the current investment in the region related to the construction of business incubators. The aim of the investment is to create a modern meeting place and business talks that will foster the development of the market for local and regional products. Business incubators will also be tasked with attracting new technologies and environmental actors to Lubin. Innovation-oriented companies and R &amp; D institutions will be provided with modern office spaces, conference rooms and specialized studios. The investment will gain strategic importance in the copper industry, as it will open development opportunities for non-mining and processing entrepreneurs and will enable them to acquire and develop the competences needed at a time when the economy is based on a constant transfer of knowledge. In addition, Lubin can become a place where innovative start-ups will develop, offering employment to well-educated residents, and can also be an attractive place for people from the region. The construction of business incubators in Lubin is a way of meeting the expectations of residents and entrepreneurs who will be able to carry out their projects on a larger scale, which will bring tangible results both for them and for the city and the region.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u264	Declaration of error in the vote. I declare that in the vote no. 20, paragraph 16: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws, print no. 1693, I mistakenly voted against the above mentioned. Laws at first reading. In fact, my voice is against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u265	I declare that during today's vote no. 21, item 6: First reading of the parliamentary bill on the Polish Family and Demography Institute in the application for rejection of the project at first reading I voted against the proposal, while when displaying the result of the vote there is information that I did not participate in it. During today's vote, I was still present in the Chamber and took part in all the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-02-sejm-43-3.u266	The meeting shall be adjourned by 8 December 2021 at the latest. 14. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 31]]
