ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please activate the machine. Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted. [[Voting No 7]] And so many are currently attending the meeting. I would like to inform you that we will proceed to the point on consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman after consideration of the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The vote on consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman will take place immediately after consideration of this point. The remaining votes will be held in the voting block at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The text of the Act is contained in print 405 and the Commission's reports In prints No 405 A and 405 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Józef Łyczak, to present a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, Raphael locksmith reporting. I would like to report that there has been a change of senator rapporteur. I took over from Senator Lyczak. This is shown on the agenda that we've received right now.]] Well, I have something else ahead of me, but I accept it with good faith. So, Mr. Senator, please report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I took part in the presentation to the State of the position of the Environment Committee on the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The matter of the convention includes, in general terms, the regulation by States Parties to the Convention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, Ministers and Marshals, please concentrate.]] ...actions in relation to the mercury element. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that we are, so to speak, at the beginning of an epilogue of a long adventure that humanity has experienced with an element of mercury, an adventure that was going in such a direction. From enthusiasm to skepticism and hope to disappointment. The Alchemists tried to turn mercury into gold. Testicular physicists can turn mercury into gold, but it doesn't pay off. Mercury was used in plant protection products, but we already know that we need to protect plants from mercury. Mercury was used for the production of cleaning products, but at the moment we know that it is a polluting element, who knows if it is not the most Our environment. Mercury was also an unparalleled drug, especially against plagues such as syphilis that plagued mankind, but it turned out to be one of the most virulent and insidious poisons today. The Act is the consequence of acquiring knowledge about this element, and especially about how it is harmful in the environment, in particular to the human body. Sadly, this knowledge was sometimes acquired by mankind under dramatic circumstances. Such circumstances took place in 1956 at the bay of Minamata in Kumamoto district. Hence, Mr. Marshal, these Japanese names in the title of the convention. Fishers from this bay started complaining of very disturbing symptoms: tremor, convulsions, convulsions, gradual loss of vision, speech disturbances, concentration disturbances, memory impairment, dementia. Eventually, death occurred. Cats died, birds died. It turned out that since the 1930s, the Japanese chemical plant of the Chrisso Corporation, which had been producing, among others, had been located above this bay. nitrogen fertilisers, but also plastic products. In this process, acetic aldehyde was needed, and the catalyst for these processes, very good and effective, was mercury, which, together with the pollution of that factory, was getting into the bay of Minamata. The concentration of mercury in water alone was not exceeded. It turned out that the bottom microorganisms converted this mercury into methylmercury, a highly virulent chemical, which, through the food chain of crustaceans, small fish and finally large fish in these fish, resulted in an increase in mercury concentrations of several thousand higher. The fishermen who fed on those fish didn't stand a chance... This element in this form, methylmercury, is very chemically active, reacts especially with amino acid groups, amines, carboxylic acids, and especially with sulfuric amino acids. It is known that we are made of protein and our functions depend on protein, so the damage to this protein must have had such consequences. Unfortunately, a similar event took place in Iraq in the 1970s when Saddam Hussein ordered Because of the drought that affected the area grain in the United States and Mexico. This grain for sowing was protected by fungicides based on mercury element. Unfortunately, transport had already arrived after the time during which the grain could be sown and was therefore used to bake bread and feed poultry. Those who have consumed this food have been subjected to severe mercury poisoning. There were about 400 deaths at the time, that's what was officially reported. Unfortunately, such a story happened in Poland a few years ago. Paradoxically, a chemical plant that wanted to withdraw from mercury production, disassembling installations, did not properly secure the welder and the welder was subjected to severe mercury poisoning. The Convention identifies all those places where man contributes to increasing the release of mercury into the environment. Since mercury is an element with very interesting properties and applies in many areas, this Convention is such that the Annexes specify which areas of mercury use the Convention does not refer to, to which it recommends withdrawal dates and where specific actions should be taken. This is what all parties undertake to do with this convention. The Environment Committee met on 25 May. In view of the fact that the European Union has already adopted this Convention several years before and Poland has already introduced the relevant legal arrangements into its legal system, only issues related to the mere fact of joining the Convention have emerged at the meeting of the Environment Committee. The question has been asked which neighbouring countries have already ratified it. Only Ukraine is not yet a party to the Convention, all other countries are already here. The question of the contribution which will arise as a consequence of accession to the Convention has also been raised. This is the contribution calculated by population parities and GDP. The first premium will be about $38,000. This is related to the operation of the Secretariat of the Convention. The Legislative Office did not make any comments. The Commission unanimously recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to present a report to the committee remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the 70th meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which on 10 June worked on the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The Convention entered into force on 16 August 2017, signed by 134 States and the European Union. To date, 133 countries and the European Union have become parties to the Convention, including the 25 Member States of the European Union. The countries of the European Union which have signed the Convention but have not ratified it are Spain and Poland. Spain is already in this process, now Poland is doing it. Poland signed the Convention on 24 September 2014. You have already told Senator Silencer about the very essence of the convention, which is why I will not repeat it. At a committee meeting, following the presentation of the bill by a representative of the government, Mr Sławomir Majszyk, Deputy Director of the Legal and Treaty Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the bill was adopted unanimously. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. As I understand it, there are no such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is the government representative... At this point, I would like to welcome the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State of Piotr Wawrzyk. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly: why are we so late in ratifying this convention?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u7	You're welcome, Minister, he may be on the spot. You gotta push a button like that... Oh, it's working.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u8	Firstly, it is, as the Senators of the rapporteur said, a technical convention, so it still functions in the Polish legal order. Secondly, I would point out that the ratification process has been going on for several months, but this in no way affects the application of this convention. By the way, it appears from the documents at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that, at the time of signing, it was decided not to rush into the ratification process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u9	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? If not, I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Janusz Błucherz have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We will now proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda. I'm handing over the lead to your marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u10	We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland ombudsman is appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate for 5 years. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 4 of the Act of 15 July 1987 on the Ombudsman, the Senate shall adopt a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman within one month of the date on which the resolution of the Sejm on its appointment was passed to the Senate. The resolution of the Sejm on the appointment of the Ombudsman was forwarded to the Senate on 16 June 2021 and is contained in Senate printing No 428. The Sejm called Mrs Lydia Staron to this position. The candidate's life story is included in Seym printing No 1223. I would like to welcome Mrs Lydia Staroń, appointed by the Sejm, to the Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Do any of you senators want to ask Mrs. Lydia Staron's questions or ask her to explain? There you go, Senator Ewa Matecka. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, I would very much like you to approach the speaker. Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: I apologize, I wanted to speak first...]] You've said in public many times that you'll stand up for people who've been hurt...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u12	Excuse me, Senator... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: But well, then ask this one question... Okay, finish up, here you go...]] But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to... Since Senator Lydia Staron wanted to come forward, I would like to remind you once again that according to the Senate's Rules of Procedure we are asking questions, the senators are asking questions, and you will answer these questions, and during the answer, of course, you can... well, you can use these answers to say what you want to say. [[The Ombudsman Lydia Staron, appointed by the Sejm: Do you, I'm sorry, remember...]] So that... that's why I need you to listen to the question, okay? [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: This question? Yes, of course.]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u13	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Senator, you have repeatedly publicly stated that you will always stand up for the people who are injured in need of help. In the meantime, your real decisions contradict those announcements. Please answer why you are in favour, like Turkey, of the Government of the Republic of Poland's declaration of an anti-violence convention, also called the Istanbul Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u14	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u15	Well, maybe I'll just say it like I always do. Because it was always mine first, so to speak, the performance. Then, of course, I'll be waiting for all the questions. Ladies and gentlemen! With full conviction, I made a decision to respond to the expectations of the crowd of Poles. I've decided to run for Ombudsman's office. I'm making arguments, hoping to accept my candidacy. Who, then, should the spokesman be? This function requires independent thinking, and above all independence not only from other politicians and parties, but also independence from different interest groups fighting for state ownership for their own needs. The Ombudsman should have the courage. Because the fight against all kinds of interests for the benefit of citizens requires great courage. Therefore, the Ombudsman should be immune to any attempt to put pressure on him. But uniting a spokesman should be a person with a high moral authority and a person who is sensitive to human harm... [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u16	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u17	Mrs. Marshal... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Wait, but...]] It doesn't stop. It's a formal matter. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: There you go, Senator Borusewicz.]] ...you said... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: But I'm sorry, the candidate has the right...]] ...that there are no speeches at this point... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator...]] ...there are only answers to questions, so is the rules of procedure. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Mr Senator, I...]] Therefore, please call the senator to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u18	I told you at the very beginning that on... [[It's a normal bastard, what you're doing. Bastard.]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: After all, ladies and gentlemen... I apologize...]] Ladies and gentlemen... I told the senator at first that you were answering questions. Of course, in answer to your questions, you have a chance to say what your position is on the role of ombudsman, but the candidate for ombudsman is only making statements when the senators ask me to do what I said at the beginning of my statement... [[Voice from the room: Yes, we are asking.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[About the formal issue. Mrs. Marshal...]] So... [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter. I have a question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Spokesman! I'd like to ask you why we made the choice of the previous ombudsman, it just started with the fact that the ombudsman presented... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: He had the right.]] ...here, in the High House, he tried to convince us. Why are we starting today with a series of questions to crush, crush the candidate who will apply for this honorable office?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u20	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mrs. Marshal, can I have another one?]] You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: But tell me you want to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u21	Mrs. Marshal, I believe the senator has the right to say... [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] ...as he sees the performance of this function. And let's not really make this harder. And at the same time, to the senator who just spoke, I'm going to say that no crushing is going on here. They'll be asked questions like any other candidate. Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I join you in supporting Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u22	Thank you very much, gentlemen senators. I'll ask the senator to tell you if you want to speak... I believe that in fact, in a situation where there is opposition to merely asking questions and asking you to speak... Please speak, but it is only a matter of being brief because there are a lot of senators who would like to ask you questions, so it is about you being able to answer those questions again. Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u23	I would simply like to ask, if possible for formal reasons, that your marshal may make it possible for the candidate or the Ombudsman elected by the Sejm to appear. And then it will be as it is in the accepted formula... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...in which every time we ask for the vote of the representative of the government or the senator of the rapporteur, and first he says something... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: May I have your peace, please?]] ...and then we ask the questions. [[Applause]] I don't know why we're supposed to be using unnecessary repression against your candidate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u24	Dear Marshal, I just said what you just called for. [[I think... if a woman in politics is denied a vote, then I protest, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr. Senator, once again, I said to Senator Lydia Staron that I was giving her the floor, and that was not necessary. Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u25	Mrs. Marshal, I would also like to ask Mrs. Lydia Staron to have the opportunity to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But don't interrupt me! But don't interrupt me, because it's your country that's brought such chaos. Every candidate has always had the right to say what he thought, how he sees his possible job in a given position, what his vision of doing this job is. He also had the right to talk about himself, about his accomplishments. And we'll also make it possible for Senator Lydia Staron, also out of respect, because she's one of us, she's a senator. Apart from the fact that we are listening to the statements of Mrs Lydia Staron, the Poles listen, because on the Internet they are as if they are participating in this meeting and certainly are also curious about the statements of the senator. So that instead of having this unnecessary discussion at first, I think we should give the floor to the senator. No time-limit. I'm sure it won't last an hour, but the senator has the right to speak freely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Once again, ladies and gentlemen: although the rules do not provide for this, I am giving the floor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...I give the floor to Senator Staroń because I, too, agree to what you say. Let's let the senator, as a candidate for this position, pass on her vision to this office. And then she'll answer the senators' questions. There you go, ma'am. [[Called by the Sejm, the Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Mrs. Marshal, I am shocked because... so it has always been out of order?]] Senator, please proceed to... It's unnecessary...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u27	I just... Ladies and gentlemen! Who should the spokesperson be? This function requires independent thinking and above all independence Not only from other politicians and parties, but also independence from different interest groups, fighting for the ownership of the state for their own needs. We know that very often. The Ombudsman should have the courage, because the fight against all kinds of interests for the benefit of citizens requires great courage. The Ombudsman should therefore be immune to any attempt to put pressure on him. But at the same time, the spokesman should be a person with a high moral authority and a person who is sensitive to human harm. It's just a bill that says it. Therefore, to be close to the real problems of people, the problems faced by citizens in relations with institutions and other actors. The exercise of this office requires empathy, but also communication skills, communication with people with high public functions. Requires bridge building skills and agreements It's over-divided. The Ombudsman should be a practice, not just a theoretical. It is about the competences acquired in the course of many years of practice in helping the victims, and this is also explicitly stated by the law. He must know the law, but he must also understand his spirit. He must also have experience in its application. The Ombudsman doesn't have to be a lawyer. If this were a necessary condition, it would be in the Act. As a result, it can maintain objectivity, a greater distance in assessing the work of law enforcement authorities, the prosecutor's office, using the opinion of specialists in the field of law. At this point it should be emphasized that I am not running for Minister of Justice, and even he does not have to be a lawyer. But the Ombudsman should always stand on the side of the citizens, even if protecting their rights would require conflict with the interests of legal practitioners. I am fulfilling the legal criteria required to perform this office properly and, above all, in accordance with the interests of the citizens. I am followed by a mandate of social trust acquired in the next five parliamentary terms. In every election I received huge support, belonging to the highest in Poland. It is an expression of the confidence of voters who see that respect for everyone's rights and dignity is not an empty password for me. I've taken thousands of interventions, 16,000. In each of them I showed legal, substantive, and formal errors, and often the wrong will of various institutions, natural or legal persons. I was on the side of a citizen that no one wanted to help, even though he was addressing the right institutions and lawyers. I also acted against the authorities of the state when those citizens were hurting. I am also supported by legislative initiatives that are extremely needed by people. It is also the work of the Parliamentary and Senate committees, the 5th term of office of the legislative committees of the Sejm and the Senate, as well as the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in the Sejm and the Committee on Rule of Law, Human Rights and Petitions in the Senate. At the Constitutional Court, as a representative of the Sejm, I was on the side of the plotters, against the monopoly of the Polish Union of plotters. And as an applicant, I fought effectively for the rights, freedom and property of the co-workers. Thousands of effective interventions, consultations, mediation and cooperation with institutions, spokespersons, ministries also speak for me. Thanks to these actions, I have helped millions effectively, not only by dealing with individual matters, but also by taking legislative initiatives that are beneficial for the general good. That's why so many people asked me to run. The foundation of my actions was And there's contact with the citizens. It is the source of my interventions, legislative initiatives over the years, the creation of documents in the legislative process. Many of them are the laws that are in force today. I've had almost 20 years of cooperation with various institutions. When I intervene or prepare initiatives, I do not act alone, use and benefit from comments and support from legal professionals. Neither does the Ombudsman alone. He's got an office, he's got support, he's got professional legal services. Years of work have resulted in the ability to build agreements with people of different beliefs. Thanks to them, I also gained great practical knowledge. I would like to point out that the document itself confirming the formal legal qualifications not required by the law or by any other legislation is not sufficient. The law, pointing out that the Ombudsman is to stand out as a high authority because of his moral qualities and social sensitivity, indicates that he is to be primarily human. Even high professional qualifications in the absence of sensitivity to human harm may prove insufficient. I work for the good of the people, I have their support. What is the meaning of the Ombudsman's existence and action? The Ombudsman shall be appointed to uphold the freedoms and human rights of the citizen as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and in other normative acts, including the observance of the principle of equal treatment. I mean, stand by the citizen, defend him from harm, from the oppressive state, from the illegal work of the institutions, to fight for human rights and the citizen. That's what I've been doing for over 20 years. People know I'm working, I intervene in their behalf, that I've always been their spokesperson. Let me give you a few examples of my work. I've fought for years for the rights of co-workers. Effectively. It was thanks to the bill that I had prepared and passed that I convinced parliamentarians of various options that millions of people could become owners of their homes, apartments. The amendment entered into force in 2007. For this fight for the sake of the great crowd of our country's citizens I paid a very high price for a dozen million people. I've become the object of a ruthless attack, just like it is now. Attacks on me didn't change my attitude and actions for people. I experienced attempts to exert pressure, and yet I was able to resist them. I was able to defend these laws, although the opponents launched a wide arsenal of resources to return to their original condition and take away millions of people's right to acquire property of their apartments. They couldn't achieve their goal. After the shocking public opinion of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment, which challenged the property rights of the co-operatives, stating that the residents of cooperative settlements do not have to be owners of apartments, even if they paid for these apartments... At the time, the government had prepared a draft amendment to confirm the Court's position. I didn't give up. In response to this, I prepared a bill which, on the one hand, stood in opposition to the government project and, on the other hand, guaranteed the co-operatives the right to absolve. The amendment was supported by parliamentarians and experts. As a result, I defended the provisions favorable to millions of co-operatives, and so the co-operatives did not have to pay for their apartment again. Today is the law. They have a right to their apartment. This law was also granted many other rights, such as access to documents, the right to participate in general meetings, and to some extent democracy was restored in cooperatives abolished during the period of the Polish People's Republic. Nevertheless, housing cooperatives were still ill, pathology occurred, e.g. because of the so-called issues. members waiting. The president of the cooperative could freely shape the composition of the bodies, including those which could theoretically cancel it. That is why they were practically inextricable and unpunished. The owners of apartments from so-called. cooperative resources had no impact on the management of real estate, their real estate, because they were not members of the cooperative. You had to pay horrendous amounts for buying an apartment. And when these owners wanted to start a community, they were losing the huge money they'd been collecting for years on a renovation fund because the cooperative thought she owned it. This pathological condition lasted for years, no one had the courage, no determination to defend the harmed co-workers and the enslaved owners of the premises. It was only on my initiative that proceedings were opened before the Constitutional Tribunal, which, by judgment of 2015, deprived the Presidents of the right to take members of the cooperative of persons without rights to premises. The Court made it possible to acquire membership without any charge and granted the right to the cooperative's assets, including the repair fund. This judgment opened up a field for further improvements that are already a law for people today. It took not only determination, perseverance, knowledge, but also the ability to communicate with parliamentarians of various options. I pushed them through, even though I didn't have my back, either parliamentary or party. It required the ability to build bridges over divisions for the good of people. I think that's the kind of skills a spokesperson should have. This is not the end of efforts for a better law for millions of people. In the Senate there is already a proposal to amend the Housing Cooperatives Act, which provides for further democratisation: direct elections of the cooperative authorities in the urn mode, facilitated access to cooperative documents, cadence of the board, reduction of the remuneration of this body, criminal liability. Why am I talking about this? Because the public should know what he had done for citizens before, what facts were in support of his belief that he would be a good spokesperson. It's not words that matter, it's actions. But I'm also talking about it with great sadness. All these years in our country, there's been an ombudsman. All these years, there was a river of requests for help from the co-workers, and they were even begging for help. How many families were thrown out of their apartments? These people paid for it and didn't have any debts. The fees were overpaid, the funds were collected from the repair fund. People had no rights. Real harm and enslavement. So? Was there a spokesperson's reaction? And yet, according to the article. 8 The RPO Act shall take the measures provided for in the Act if it takes a message indicating a violation of liberty and human rights and of the citizen, including the principle of equal treatment. It's not a spokesperson's right, it's his duty. This provision highlights the importance of a spokesman for ordinary people, for citizens. Another area. For years I have also been fighting for the rights of victims of crime, which is a natural domain of the Ombudsman's actions. On my initiative, in June 2010, provisions were entered into force to establish a legal adviser as a proxy for the victim in criminal proceedings. This increased the availability of legal services in this area. In July 2013, on my initiative, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force. This extremely important change consisted in granting persons who filed a complaint and who were not wronged to file a complaint when the prosecution refused to deal with the case. So before that, if false statements or documents were filed in court or in the D.A.'s office in Kowalski's case, then this Kowalski, if I say so... If he filed a notice to the D.A.'s office and the D.A. refused to investigate the case, he couldn't do anything because it was crimes against the justice system. It's changed. It's gone. And how many pathologies were there in the chamber execution area? We saw almost every day moving things, property of people who weren't even indebted. That's what happened. At my initiative, the fee for bailouts was halved first. Charges were also introduced, followed by immediate effectiveness of the order to expel the convicted bailiff from the service. And before that, he could have worked even though there was a conviction. Then it was decided that the bailiff could only sell the occupied movables two weeks after the occupation was approved. And the thing was, before the court recognized the complaint, the thing was already sold. Also on my initiative in 2017... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, I'm just reminding you... five more minutes. It'll be a 20-minute speech.]] But... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: 5 minutes. There you go, five more minutes.]] But I'm sorry, I'm a candidate now. It has always been so in our House that everyone could say as much as he wanted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u28	Well, Senator... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Sorry...]] I'm gonna take a break for a second, and I'm gonna go with the facts. On 17, 18 and 19 February, the Senate debated the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, Mr Wróblewski. The script was exactly the same. And it was Senator Marek Pęk who asked your candidate in question to present a vision of the office... I'm sorry, it was about Mr. Lorenzo. And that's the first protocol. Of course, there was a statement... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Well, that's right, first...]] ...to make it quick and talk for 20 minutes. On 13 May 2021, when Mr Wróblewski was present, Senator Marek Martynowski also asked to present a vision of the spokesperson. And Mr. Marshal asked Mr. Wróblewski to try to fit in 20 minutes. I'm just asking... This is the justification that we are acting in accordance with the regulations today as well. [[What's the big deal? Why?]] Only, Senator, that I asked, as I always do, when the senators are running out of time... I say five minutes left. Which makes me Senator... [[The senator will speak and...]] ...I repeat that there are five minutes left, and I would very much ask that she be brief in those five minutes. That's it. And that's why I'm telling you this. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u29	But after all, Mrs. Marshal... [[Marshal woman, candidate woman...]] But I have to tell the senators what the vision is, what I've done. It's not like... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: That is why we are waiting for this vision.]] ...I'll say one, two, three, vision is something, end, period. [[These are democratic freedoms, Mrs. Marshal.]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u30	Senator, democracy is the rule of law, that's compliance with the law and the rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall state the agenda of the Senate. And according to the Rules of Procedure, everyone complies with it, each of your senators follows the rules of time and I asked for it to be up to 20 minutes. And always, gentlemen, don't interrupt... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: This was never the case.]] ...in the middle of a sentence, a few minutes before the end, I always notice that time is running out. You know that very well. So all I did was say, "Senator, five more minutes." Therefore, this discussion is unnecessary. Five more minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u31	I'd like to ask the marshal to allow the senator to give up everything he wants to say. We're also interested in sitting here, everyone in the courtroom...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u32	If you have not asked such a question, none of you have asked... [[You're taking your time, senator, when you speak.]] No, I'm not taking your Senator's part of the time. I said, I asked at the very beginning... Because the sentences in the courtroom were divided, and it's not in the rules. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention again: please fit in for another 5 minutes, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u33	Then it was changed that the bailiff could only sell occupied movables after two weeks, that's what I was talking about. Also on my initiative, fees for the execution of non-monetary benefits were reduced in 2017. The bailiff can't take money for evictions that weren't there. And before that, he could have. Even though there weren't 10,000 zlotys, 15,000 zlotys were in his pocket. He can't now. That's how he took the money for a police assist, 900 zlotys, even though only the police worked. Finally, a new law has been in force since 2019. [[Applause]] I fought for this for many years, effectively, for enhanced supervision of bailiffs. I'm talking about the new law. It's been so many years of fighting. Obligation to record executions, access the files and eventually radically reduce bail fees. It's very important for people to change. Next question, very important... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u34	Excuse me, Miss Senator, just a moment. I'd like to thank your marshal for driving... [[Applause]] ...because the important thing that required me to be here in my office distracted me from my planned lead. At the moment, this issue is settled. Thank you very much, Marshal, for replacing me during this brief, necessary break. Please, Senator, please continue, as... [[One more time, one more time...]] There's no discussion right now. There will be questions, there will be discussion. Right now, the senator is presenting her credo. If I may, I'll ask you to fit in with the senator in some reasonable time frame. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Yes, I will try to make sure that...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u35	Another area, very important... I just have to say, although more or less... I'll try... [[Please, it's...]] Thanks to my many years of efforts, there has been an emergency complaint, and it has already become a law. The need for change was dictated by such situations that, for example, gross errors in judgment or false opinions of experts became a source of real human drama. We have cases in the office that there were unfair convictions, there was a judge's mistake, and unfortunately, as a result of this mistake, there was lost... for example, a marriage lost its farm, a roof over its head. First there were interpelations, then I prepared a proposal for legislation and these provisions were included in the Supreme Court Act, there is already a new institution of emergency complaint, i.e. there is a chance for justice. In fact, in the Senate recently, because in March of this year, I convinced parliamentarians to amend this law, extending the deadline for filing a complaint by 3 years. Why am I talking about this? Because I think if someone's just a scientist, they say it's sentences, end, period, nothing can be done. And for these people, for this injury, for this injustice, for example, when the court made a mistake and even wanted to correct a mistake, but the appeal court found that the most important thing was the sentence, and the justification was completely different... I knew you had to look for help here, you have to look for something so these people have a chance for justice, because those judgments were just unfair. Hence the emergency complaint. Another area of great harm, a great social problem and also a spokesperson is a usury. I've been helping her victims for years. After my intervention, the National Prosecution instructed all prosecutors to help usury victims, including civilians. I am effectively seeking to amend the rules in this regard. Today, it is primarily about extra-interest costs. How can it be that, for example, there is a loan of 500 PLN, this is an example from my office, and a man has already paid 50 thousand and his debt is 200 thousand? And that's normal? Oh, no. There's even a sentence. That's why weed is a case... This is a great social problem and it took many years of hard work to make usury criminal. Today it is. Last year, the anti-Liquid rule package entered into force and significantly reduced the possibility of making contracts for overestimation of real estate, which was a real plague. Many people lost their livelihood for a small debt, which they had previously transferred to a loan shark as collateral for a small loan. The action for the victims of the loan is also related to the bill of law that is being conducted here in the Senate. It's about recording notarial activities. I have a lot of cases like this in my office. I have also helped and helped people with disabilities who have been and are helpless and who have not had the necessary help. After my long efforts to change the law in 2019 the law came into force here too, I waited for it to finally be... It was a law on the special powers of victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established under the provisions prior to 2006. It's about victims of car accidents, mostly car accidents. When those people didn't have a pension... Now there's this change and today the Insurance Guarantee Fund is paying. During my parliamentary work, I fought for the historical truth. I led the Sejm to unanimously adopt a resolution establishing the National Day of Remembrance of German Victims I would like to stress: German The Nazi Concentration Camps and the Holocaust Camps. The resolution was adopted on 12 June 2015 by acclamation. I fought for this resolution for two years. As part of my many years of struggle for the rights of the weakest people, the monopoly of the Polish Landowners' Union in the field of parcel gardening has been abolished. As a representative of the Sejm, I fought for this before the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court found that there are illegal provisions which do not give landowners the possibility of associating with organisations other than the PZD. A significant part of my activity concerns the taking of current interventions, i.e. About 16,000 cases in my office, 16,000 cases, and I only have two employees. I think I've been acting and acting as a spokesperson for years, for 20 years, when people can't find help anywhere else. I think that's what the spokesperson should do. Interventions concerned inter alia.: Education workers who have lost their savings, abuses in cooperatives This is an avalanche, just an avalanche; the right to live in a clean environment I have 900 of these cases, it was 800, and now it is 900; it is wronged by notaries, unjust convictions and prisons; evictions to places of derogatory human dignity; disadvantaged entrepreneurs, farmers victimized by the decisions of the Social Security Office. Behind these interventions are human dramas, tragedies, families, villagers, towns that no one wanted to lean over. These interventions were successful. I owe this to the integrity, knowledge and substance of matters, but above all that I treat my work as a service to people. The results of hundreds of interventions are money recovered, movables, real estate, damages, favourable judgments, mediations, return of children to biological families, as well as prosecutions against criminals and convictions. I've also taken other actions... [[Mrs. Senator...]] It's gonna be a little while. [[Your resume is included in the print...]] I'm done, if that's what you mean. [[Why don't you tell me a little bit about the future plans...]] Yeah, but over there... [[...because I know there's a lot of questions, I have a lot of calls.]] I've also taken care of others... Because apart from the fact that the Ombudsman recognizes different kinds of cases, he's looking for solutions when it comes to regulations, it's also something else, it's also different kinds of actions. I used to make them, too. As far as the legal action of GPS is concerned, it was, for example, legal knowledge. And I went to school for many years, many years, so that's what it was. Former shares - All Poland talks to children, or Mamo, examine yourself. I also directed these things to young people, e.g. Stop drinking, start living. So it was social action, but not only because it was also prevention, tutorials, initiation, involvement in legal education, that is, helping citizens. And these are the presented areas over which, of course, if I am a spokesman, I will lean over all these areas, but not just those. I'm going to point out a short six areas that I think are also very important. Of course there's more of them. And which are already in my office when it comes to interventions. Employee rights, helping to solve workers' problems, taking into account their right to fair pay and decent working conditions. There is also a fight against mobbing and discrimination. It would also have to be considered as regards the possibility of suspending the limitation period for employees' claims against their employer during the period of employment. Next: agriculture. Now we are working on the idea of small farms being a consumer. It's about protecting against exploitation, illegal contractual clauses. The right to property, that's housing. Cooperatives, housing, but also the area of development investments. The point is, it's not like people pay for their apartments and aren't owners. It is also about these development agreements. Next: consumer support. All kinds of online cheaters are reaping more and more. Many people up to today are not aware that just installing software on their own phone can lead to someone taking a loan into a bank, impersonating us. And we have a lot of these things right now. It's also an avalanche when it comes to all kinds of online fraud. This is again about prevention, but also about real helping the victims when there is a problem. It often turns out that financial institutions are not blameless by entering into contracts without proper verification of the counterparty's identity. Another area: family, i.e. protection of seniors, families and children, support for a safe and decent life. It is about providing support in the care of children. And there's an avalanche here too. I think there's been an avalanche in my office for three or four years asking for help. It's about... reform requires a system of realization of the right to have relations with children in families, of course, in those where parents don't live together. The problem of parental alienation is, in my opinion, a common problem. Next: health care. In fact, the pandemic revealed these weaknesses. Perhaps an audit is needed in this case. Of course, all these cases are matters in which we need to act together, in cooperation with the competent spokespersons, before all the spokesperson for the rights of the child, the spokesperson for the rights of the patient, the financial spokesman. The next item is cooperation in the protection of clients of financial institutions, taking into account protection against usury. Here we're looking at the interest rate. This is a matter to talk about, but not just talk about, because it also works. I made a notification about the franc loans. It is in Szczecin, and I hope there will be some effect. The last thing to do is... This is actually a traditional area of my interest. The justice system, protecting people from abuse. And here are, like, three cases I'm already working on. The first thing is, there's no expert law. It just doesn't exist, and the problem is very big. Very often it is so that not only is the poor quality of the opinion, it lacks real sanctions for unfinished opinions, without justification, late for which, however, it is always necessary to pay for, regardless of what they were. We've got a lot of that, and we're going to say that, at some point. The other thing is the syndicate case. And here's the thing. There's actually no deadline. The point is, there's a higher salary, and it doesn't matter if I tell you what the job is. What's important is that it's... I mean, a fortune that was in the beginning, actually, over the years... And he's gone. It's about change. It's very often bad will. Sometimes, in such proceedings, the syndicate literally becomes the master of life and death in relation to the fallen one, the fallen one cannot ask for anything, even when it comes to such basic needs. We've got a lot of cases like this, experts, syndicates. And the matter of ex officio remuneration of agents, in particular those established in the event of a cassation complaint. There is no difference in whether the representative draws up an opinion on the grounds of the complaint or makes a complaint. It's the same amount. So, in fact, it would be best if this attorney did not draw up this complaint, because the money would still have the same. So that's the thing. And one last thing about an emergency complaint. Of course, we know today how she is needed. But we need to expand the range of entities entitled to file a complaint. There's two roads here. The first is to make these intermediaries more. Today it's the spokesperson and the prosecutor. I think there should be more. And the second: an action directly to the Supreme Court, so that it may be... take over the lawyers... Of course, I will remain open to other initiatives that will promote the protection of citizens' rights. To conclude, I would also like to say that it would be my intention to set up a branch of a spokesperson's office in other cities, of course, when I am this spokesperson. There should be representatives in the field who will provide specific legal assistance, so that the spokesperson becomes close, you can say, at your fingertips. If I'm a spokesperson, I'll use all the possibilities and tools provided by the RPO Act. This is very important, Art. 14 and 16... I will ask for civil, criminal, administrative proceedings to protect citizens' rights, I will proceed to pending proceedings, as well as to bring appeal measures, cassation actions, cancellations, emergency actions. I will address to the competent authorities with proposals for legislative initiative, issuing or amending other legal acts in matters relating to freedom and human rights and the citizen. I will apply to the Constitutional Court and report to the Court of Justice. I will apply to the Supreme Court for resolutions to clarify legislation. I am ready to work with other spokespersons in joint initiatives, especially with the spokesperson of children's rights, the spokesperson of the patient, the financial spokesman or the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In fulfilling my competence, I would like to cooperate with the associations That's what I've been doing all these years. With civil movements and other voluntary associations and foundations and foreign organisations working to protect human freedom and rights and the citizen. For my part, I express my openness to cooperation with everyone, regardless of his beliefs, in the care of the ordinary man and his cause. I'm counting on my candidacy. I would like this office to be actually for the citizens so that it is not owned by any party, simply to be for the people. First of all, I want to focus on the problems of people, the problems of the widely understood right to freedom, property, above all dignity. My person guarantees not only independence from influence, whether politicians or various interest groups, but also guarantees that this office will be an office for citizens. They're the ones who gave me the mandate to trust me, convinced me to run. I've been doing this for 20 years. Today, fighting for people, I am fighting for new tools so that I can help more citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to remind you that you had the opportunity to present your program and say everything you wanted to say for nearly 40 minutes. I hope you find that sufficient. However, many senators, Senator, have applied to ask questions, so far 14 people. Senator Secretary accepts further requests. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please. One technical issue. Senator, because there are a lot of questions, I wonder if we could allow you to sit down. [[Called by the Sejm, the Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Could I have all... I'll write to myself... That's the deal.]] [[You have to answer questions...]] No. It seems to me, Senator, that so far the practice has been rather that in order not to lose any thread, candidates answer the questions of individual senators. [[Voice from the room: After 3.]] I think for your convenience... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: That's after 3. I'll write.]] [[Mr. Marshal, it's not a matter of convenience, I'm sorry. There's a question. There's an answer.]] It's obvious to me. [[Short question, short answer.]] I'm just saying... Mr. Marshal, I am not discussing the substantive issue right now, because it is obvious to me that respect for the House requires that the senator answer questions that will be asked to her. All I care about is the convenience of the senator, technically understood, so that no one would accuse us of making some kind of deject here. Please ask me to ask you a question. As I understand it, the senator will respond from the scene. In such a way that I say so, we will make amends for everyone. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I repeat the question. Many times you have publicly said that you will stand up for people who are hurt, injured, in need of help, while some of your real decisions contradict those announcements. Answer the question: are you, and why are you in favour of giving an anti-violence convention called the Istanbul Convention, like Turkey? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u38	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u39	I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know how I'm gonna say this, how I know or how I'm gonna say it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u40	You're welcome. Senator Ewa Matecka has an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u41	In 2015, the honourable senator was against the ratification of the anti-violence convention, because you considered that the anti-violence convention of the Council of Europe and here I quote, "it is an ideological document that does more harm than good." You voted against at the time. Do you hold up your decision and your opinion? Will you also be in favor of giving up the Istanbul Convention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u42	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u43	Senator, this is completely different. You asked me... [[If you'd be kind enough to talk in the microphone, Senator...]] I'm sorry. You asked me about the current situation, so I said there was no such statement. A year... Excuse me... 17 years ago... you're probably quoting a statement. You're asking me if I'm in favour of this convention being gone by now. Yes? You're asking about the present time. Right? [[Senator, I'm asking if you're in favour of giving up the Istanbul Convention.]] No. [[Yes or no?]] No. If that's what you're asking me... No. There's no such statement as that. No. And if you're asking about 2014, I'll say it was the Grevio group. That's what it was about at the time, about supervision, not about the rules themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u44	You're welcome, Senator, to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u45	Well, let me ask you something else. What is your attitude towards the Istanbul Convention, the Anti-violence Convention?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u46	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u47	But today there is no ministry or government... As far as I know, there's no public talk of any changes to this convention, so I don't really understand... And when it comes to violence, because it's about violence, we've always been behind it. And that was seen in all the votes, so that these laws were good for the victims, not for the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u48	Thank you, Senator. Please, once again, Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u49	One last question. I don't ask about the positions of individual ministries. I'm asking for the senator's opinion as a candidate for an ombudsman. That's it. I'm not gonna ask any more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u50	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Senator...]] Senator Matecka, in other words, asks you, Senator, about your personal relationship, as a possible ombudsman, with the state document, which is ratified by the Republic of Poland's anti-violence convention. Because the government said they wanted to say it. That's what the senator's asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u51	Senator, like I said, she is. There's no danger, because there's none that I'm going to say so, trying to keep her out today. Yes? If that's what you're saying... And as my spokesperson, it's kind of out of my jurisdiction right now. [[Voice from the room: Don't ask, it's over.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Of course I'm saying... Of course, I'm against violence. Well, every man is against violence. [[Miss...]] Of course I do. And that's why I voted... As far as all the laws are concerned, I was on the side of the victims of violence. Yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u52	Thank you, Senator. The question was, as I understand it, not about violence, but about the anti-violence convention. But that's your business, how do you respond. Senator Halina Poor is another senator... another senator who will ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u53	Mr. Marshal, before I ask a question... I don't think it's a comfortable position for the senator because he has to turn to the questioner. Couldn't you possibly... I think everyone would agree to sit next to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u54	There you go. Sure, there's not the slightest... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: No...]] But, Senator... [[I really...]] ...it's an important problem because you're not hearing very well. In view of your full comfort in this House, I have decided to make it easier for you to answer several questions. I'd like you to be in as comfortable a situation as possible. [[Voice from the courtroom: On the front...]] [[Voice from the room: There's a chair.]] [[There's a chair over there.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Good. I'm the one asking the question.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u55	It consists of such two parts: do you consider that last year's bans and injunctions issued by the Senator were in line with the applicable law and, consequently, whether you will continue to bring the case before the administrative courts concerning persons punished by the health and police in connection with the participation in the assemblies organised, among others. The Women's Strike? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u56	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u57	Here's what I'm gonna say. There will probably be a lot of these questions when it comes to continuing the work of the current Ombudsman. Because I don't know exactly what the documents are, what are the conclusions, what are the actions... But I think it's supposed to be that what's already done is just going to be... [[Senator Halina Poora: I asked a specific question about these very cases, about regulations concerning the closure of companies and about punishing demonstrators. Thank you.]] But after all...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u58	I feel like... I'm sorry, I don't want to interfere with the discussion process, but I have the impression that the same as the previous question, so this time you, as a person seeking the approval of the Senate, who is pretending to be an ombudsman, are asked by both senators about issues concerning these rights, before the issue of the anti-violence convention, and now about the issue of the bans on demonstrations that were issued in Poland. And that's the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u59	I will say this: every time, every time the law is violated, it will of course always be a reaction. Always.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u60	I ask you to ask Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, my question concerns this sphere, which you have emphasized very much, I am thinking here of your sensitivity to human harm, I am thinking of your opposition regarding, for example. sharing citizens, but also respecting respect for every citizen. And now my question. As you know, in 2019 many authorities representing local government units at different levels adopted resolutions creating the so-called. zones free of the so-called LGBT ideology. I would like to ask you very simply and very specifically. I want to know how you feel about such resolutions. And if you are an Ombudsman, will you actively counter such initiatives and, for example, And that's what's owed to the Ombudsman. You're going to refer the actions to the administrative courts? Very short and precise. That's the answer I'm asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u62	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u63	Exactly the same thing, every time... If, first of all, there's a violation of the law, then I'll react, always, every time. Because also the constitution, and the bill, that is, within what framework the spokesperson must act. That's the basis for him, and that's how he has to do it. Yeah, about... I'm saying... Because here, too, you have to see what the contents are about the individual. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. That is, these documents, because each of them is different and each of them has a different basis. As far as I know, they're very different. So like I said, I'll always react if there's a violation of the law and the constitution. Always. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Mr. Marshal, may I ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u64	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u65	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, there have been many resolutions. You know that they were very uniform in their content. And I would like to get a concrete answer: will you really, if further resolutions are made if further resolutions are taken, address complaints to administrative courts? It's a very simple question. After all, you know the content of such resolutions, we all knew them, we all reacted to them. And I want to know your decision: whether you do, you will react and you will direct the complaints as an ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u66	Well, let me get this straight, just like you asked. So I can say the same thing: I don't know these documents, I don't know them exactly, because I didn't read them. And if that's the case, if I know what the document is going to be, then I can say something. And I'll say the same again: every time I react, if there's a violation of the law. Of course I do. And if there's any harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question about what we've been seeing in the last few months, and I'm thinking here of combating the COVID pandemic. But there is also a discussion in legal circles, among others. on the legal basis for suspending the various civil and constitutional freedoms, such as those relating to the freedom to conduct business and those restrictions which have limited in some way. I don't want to enter into a dispute right now... But what is the senator's opinion on this matter? In your view, are these legal bases on the basis of which these sharpenings were introduced sufficient or insufficient? I'd like a comment on this case. I'm talking about activity, freedom... various civil rights, including freedom of movement, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u69	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u70	Let me put it this way: it also depends on which, but we know that some of them had no legal basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u71	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Marcin Bosacki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, you said in your speech that you would cooperate with international organisations defending human rights in the defence of human rights and civil liberties of citizens of the Republic. One of the most important guarantees increasing the scope of this defence is Polish participation in the European Convention on Human Rights and Polish participation, membership of the European Union. These are the 2 international pillars of increasing the care of citizens' rights also in the Republic of Poland. However, not further than yesterday or the day before yesterday we had the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of Ms Julia Przyłębska, stating that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights was invalid. We also have 2 requests from the Prime Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of PiS, Mr Morawiecki, and a group of members of the PiS with a request from the Constitutional Court of Julia Przyłębska to annul the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is the highest court of the Community which we are a member of. Do you support these proposals, which would, of course, result in Poland coming out of the family of countries which are united and which are bound by the European Convention on Human Rights, and on the other hand would lead to Poland leaving the legal system of the European Union, i.e. from the European Union? Do you support these proposals, or will you be... [[About the formal...]] ...spoken that the Court should not support them and decide positively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u73	Thank you very much. About the formal Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u74	Mr. Marshal, I would like to protest against the senator's use of the term "Mrs. Przyłębska's Constitutional Tribunal." You can't do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u75	But, Senator, this isn't a rule form, you can sign up for a debate... [[But I wanted to make it clear that this wasn't right.]] ...or make a statement. That kind of remark is... [[Mr. Marshal, but you can undo the question you're asking, really.]] I do not reject this question because I recognise the right of senators to express their own opinion under the Senate Rules of Procedure. Senator Bosacki has expressed his own opinion, shared by many Poles, he has the right to do so, and voters are willing to judge whether they like the activities of Senator Bosacki or not. I'm certainly not the senator for this. And I will apply this principle to everyone. Each of you, regardless of whether these words that you say please me or not, has the right to say them. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the hall:... of the essentials...]] And your speech wasn't a rule-of-law statement, it's just that. [[We're legally...]] I ask the senator to answer the question asked by Mr Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u76	Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: the spokesman should not be a politician, but here he should answer that politician. If I say so, it's not an act or a propriety of a spokesperson, which is why I wouldn't want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u77	I'm asking you for an extra question, as I understand it. Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, with all due respect to you, it is the Ombudsman who is to protect the rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic in all cases. In my deepest assessment, certified by the Constitution and by the treaties signed by the Republic, these rights increase Poland's presence in the Treaty on the European Convention on Human Rights and in the European Union. However, the judgments of the courts, the two, in one case of the treaty, in the other case of international organisations, are currently being challenged. Will you, as an Ombudsman, agree with this line that judgments of the courts of the European Union, the TSEU and the European Court of Human Rights are not to apply in the territory of the Republic of Poland? I'm gonna ask you again as a candidate for an ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u79	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u80	It's not like they don't have it here, so to speak, to act, that's not it. I'm talking about something else entirely. It's a judgment that doesn't even have a justification, and I'm a spokesperson... Because you, Mr. Senator... Of course, as a spokesman who will or won't be, but I have to speak, just looking at my property, not the property of politics. Then of course not. Like you said in the end, it's necessary... that there might be a way out of the Union. Of course not. As a man Yes, but what you want is... I'm supposed to answer as a politician, so no. As a politician, no, but as far as I'm concerned, the spokesperson... This is... You yourself said it was a matter of judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u81	Is Senator Bosacki going to continue? [[I don't understand, but I'm not asking any more questions.]] I'm not surprised. I ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I have two brief questions for you as an ombudsman candidate. Are you... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] I don't know. I don't think it's working. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is it working yet? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] So, Senator, two short questions. Do you, as a candidate for an ombudsman, believe that taking over private media by the State and by State Treasury companies limits citizens' access to independent information? That's the first question. And two: will you continue with the Ombudsman's actions so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u83	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u84	I've already said that if I'm a spokesperson, then... that spokesperson who's still, well, worked and... [[Voice from the room: Microphone...]] There it is. [[Voice from the room: I know...]] It's, it's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, because he's in there, and that's why he's both... I mean, I'm not gonna go back to what the spokesperson was doing, which means I'm not gonna be like... Because that's what you meant, isn't it? So what he did was done. And I say, if I'm a spokesperson, I'll be another spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u85	And the first question. What do you think about the State and the Treasury companies taking over independent, private media? And does that limit... That's the first question, concrete.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u86	Senator, yes, but this too... You're asking me about politics, and I'm in a different role today, which is why... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: But you are a candidate for spokesperson.]] Yes. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: I, as a Polish woman, would like to know what you think. That's it. That's it. That's it. Are you for it or against it?]] So don't... As I said, what this spokesperson did, he did, and, as I say, it's not a property for me as a spokesperson. I speak as a spokesperson, not as a politician. I have an opinion about politics, but... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor:... Does not restrict access to independent information, right? You don't have an opinion on that. Thank you very much. I won't continue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jolanta Hibner's question, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet, quiet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs Senator, you have now stressed in your speeches that you will benefit from the Constitutional Tribunal, which is why I would like to learn more about what you think is right and wrong. That's why I have two questions. First. Do you believe that it is lawful to prevent three judges from sitting at the Constitutional Court, even though the Constitutional Tribunal has confirmed the correctness and validity of their choice? That's the first question. And the other. Do you believe that Prime Minister Beata Szydło had the right not to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u90	Senator, these are political questions again, politics. As far as I'm concerned... We know we've had a lot of convictions since then. Here's what I'm gonna say. If we question the status of judges, we must see that on the other side is the legal security of citizens. There's a lot of those convictions, so now we need to see if they're... Am I supposed to fight for the citizens? Yeah, yeah. If one office questions another, then... Today is 2021 and we have so many decisions. Today I answer in the role, so to speak, the spokesperson, and so above all, I am on the side of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u91	Thank you. Then I will repeat this question about your former Prime Minister Szydło. Did Prime Minister Beata Szydło have the right not to publish those judgments despite the position of the Constitutional Court? Why don't you write that question down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u92	Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u93	Again, you want me to talk as a politician again. Let me put it this way: the rule is that all judgments should be published, simply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u94	Thank you very much. About the formal issue of Senator Szejnfeld. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, High Izbo! I understand that a candidate for an ombudsman under the Senate's Rules of Procedure is not obliged to answer questions, but since she accepts questions and answers them, she should rather refer to a question. I suggest that the senator doesn't answer questions if she doesn't want to, or yet answers questions that are asked in substance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u96	But, Senator... [[Because you answer, but you don't say anything.]] Mr. Senator, unfortunately, I must repeat the exact same opinion I sent to the PiS senators when they criticized Senator Bosacki because they did not like his wording. Anyone who... I get texts that really many Poles listen to what Mrs. Lydia Staron has to say. I think we're not doing anything wrong with the Poles, wanting them to find out who the Sejm voted to be the ombudsman. And that's why we want to give Mrs. Lydia the Old One every minute and every second she wants to tell the Poles about her views and visions of the world. This is what Poles deserve to find out who the Sejm has chosen as a candidate for the Ombudsman. This is our respect for the senator, the Sejm and our fellow citizens. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Very well.]] I ask you another question, which will be asked by Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, in 2015 you were against the adoption of the Infertility Treatment Act. I've reached the data from these programs over the years. It turns out that the in vitro procedure was used by 20,000 couples and 22,000 children were born. Now implemented by the current government team, implemented under such a procreation program, covered only 6,000 couples and 290 children were born. I have a question, Senator. At this point, when the method has worked out, when it is clinically confirmed, when many parents have given happy children and everyone is really happy because of it, as well as because we have a problem with demographics and it doesn't matter how many babies are born... I have a question: are you holding up your position right now, and would you also object to such a method? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u99	Senator, I don't even remember that in 2015 I didn't vote... Yes? For this... [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: You were then a messenger against.]] So today I'd have to see what this bill of 2015. Exactly, and why... And when it comes to the method itself, no, I'm not against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, sir, is the senator still... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: No.]] I'm asking because I allow all senators to ask additional questions. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u101	Mrs. Senator, your public activity, which even today you boast of, began with the fight against the President of Olsztyn Housing Cooperative, among others. It's about your own business. You led the president to lose his job, to prosecute him, to arrest him, to permanently lose his health. You ruined his life. After years of fighting in the courts in 2015, the President was cleared of all charges and received high compensation for the damage suffered. In 2017, the Supreme Court rejected the application for the annulment of that judgment, which you requested. Senator, I have three questions for you. Why haven't you apologized to Mr. Procyk so far for what you've given him with your false accusations? Why do taxpayers have to pay $2 million for your mistakes and your passion? Maybe you should pay that $2 million. And the third question, which relates to your aspirations to the role of spokesperson: how do you assess your attitude in the context of the statutory requirement for the Ombudsman to have moral values and social sensitivity? Is this proof of your moral value and your social sensitivity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u102	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u103	I'll tell you what. Yes. Yeah, that's legal action, even more. I told you here, and it's gonna be a while because I didn't think it was gonna be so... that this conversation was gonna be at the bottom. But okay. Let me put it this way: yes. Sir, Mr. Senator, every time I fight for the law, a good law for the people... As was the expropriation, as these provisions were amended, there were articles on the benches of Members each time. It was 2007, 2009, 2015. Every time. And every time there were the same so-called ones. Charges. Same thing every time. Just like they are now. As far as these actions are concerned, of course, I have taken legal action, and that is today and in court, and in the prosecution's office. It doesn't matter to me whether it's Kowalski or Malinowski, it's important that about 17 years ago I filed a notice with the DA. Because it was pathology, it was horrible pathology. So many people were hurt, people were thrown out of their apartments. The building was built, so to speak, for the judges at an underpriced price. I'm just saying the way it is, and I'm about to pass my sentence. I knew it would be, that's why I took it. All these years, it's not me. It's the D.A.'s office. Mr. Senator, you do know, don't you? And the court recognized the case. I don't think it's the senator. And the verdict is for the court... I mean, the court is what? Independent, isn't it? And his sentence, too. And as a result of this case, people, employees, are convicted lawyers, but in the same process there is also a convicted accountant of this cooperative who threw a family with six children on the street. Mrs. Basia, who was the mother of these children, was nine months pregnant. This family was expelled. She didn't have any debts because she paid everything. This family was expelled. 60 m2... I fought for Mrs. Basia and her family for 18 years. I won. In the same process, the accountant was convicted. It was $22,000 to repair the damage, so I went to the civil court, and I won in this court. And if I don't want to, because to me, it's... But, here you go, the last sentence. Because, like I said, every time there's a campaign, when there's an election, there's articles like that. There are lies every time. Just so I don't help people. Because I'm on the side of these people, not on the side of a business group or presidents of some cooperative or some bailiff or somebody else. It's like that every time. And now, when it comes to this money, Mr. Senator, this is indeed a scandal. And that's why the D.A.'s compensation you're talking about... There is no such compensation in Poland. Indemnification of 7.5 thousand a day on the one hand, and on the other hand for Mrs Basi 22 thousand for 60 m2 is this. And today, as far as I know, there's an erasation when it comes to height. She'll be recognized this month. And they're still... Of course, I have all my convictions about my cases because I won all these cases. It's a conspiracy, it's a lie. The fact that you're coming with it today And they know you live nearby in Warmia and Mazury. It's going to... But nothing, sir. And I won't, because this isn't my partner... You just want it, you're welcome. I've got all the sentences I've won. The last one is from April this year, and the court said: Senator, you're right, this is a failure of justice. And that sentence is It's a mismanagement, because that was the verdict. It's not 200 grand, but 194, I think. Well, it was a shame, the co-workers paid out of their pockets, but the court said, well, it should be 200,000. People are convicted of a candy bar, not 200, but 193,000. As far as Mrs. Basia is concerned, there's no responsibility. There's no responsibility, because 22 grand for the apartment... Luckily, in civil court, we won this case. There's more money today. And one last thing: why is this gentleman acquitted? Because there's a statute of limitations. The court also said that there was a statute of limitations. About the rest of the stuff... As far as you're concerned, as you said, compensation, it's a cancellation. There is no such height in Poland, indeed there is not. And you have to ask how that's possible. And if you'd like, Senator, I can give you some... And there are various kinds of information in journalists about why this happened. But that's for your information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u104	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wcisła would like to ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u105	Mrs. Senator, I'm afraid you haven't answered any questions, saying sometimes that I'm lying... I want to tell you that there was no verdict that acquitted Mr. Procyk, there was no refusal by the Supreme Court to cancel that sentence, and there was no compensation of $2 million... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Mr. and Mrs. Senators... Mr. Senator...]] One million $700,000, so I'd ask you to answer the facts... And the additional question is, do you accept the judgments of the courts, or do you only accept those that are favorable to you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u106	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u107	Mr. Senator, I said... I don't even know if I should... It's not... But it's... I'm embarrassed. I'm just embarrassed to have a senator say this kind of... [[I agree with you, and I'm ashamed of you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u108	But I'm sorry, Senator. I would very much ask that you, however... I care that you are not insulted in this House and that I will take care of it. But I would very much ask you not to press charges against our esteemed senator that he behaved inappropriately. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: But...]] He asked you questions as an applicant for an office of spokesperson related to your activities described by the media. You have the right to... If the senator lied about anything he said and I didn't react... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: I said...]] ...because I might not know the truth... [[The Ombudsman Lydia Staron, appointed by the Sejm: Mr Senator, I said...]] ...you can refer the case to the ethics committee. But I don't see here... The senator asked a question and there's no reason to insult him instead of answering it. And I would very much ask the senator not to answer that question and say she doesn't want to answer it for any reason, or answer it, not insult the senator who asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u109	But here's what I'm gonna say. First of all... [[Senator, this is manipulation. Don't let her move in...]] Yeah, I know. Well, I know it's special... [[I would ask Senator Mammoth not to obstruct the proceedings.]] Like I said, every time there's a campaign, there's talk, every time... [[Voice from the room: Absolutely...]] I even told you before that this is just because it's a fight for dark business, it's just that. Yeah, every time... 'Cause if it was like it was then... As far as the charity is concerned, on one side there were people who paid for their apartments, paid and could not be owners, and on the other side there were presidents of cooperatives in Poland, all over Poland, who wanted these people not to be owners, simply because the cooperative was supposed to be their property. And it's that kind of fight every time. And here, Mr. Senator, I... I mean, here's what I'm gonna say. The action over the years and the prosecution's office, and the courts, was such that, as a result, some people were convicted of this process concerning this cooperative. The last one... I mean. The last... As for one of those judgments that you said the person was acquitted, in the same process, the accountant of the cooperative, who was probably a member of the board, was convicted in the same process. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But wait a minute. I don't really understand... And the court said the acquittal is because there's a statute of limitations... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...because the mismanagement is, in fact, less than 200,000 and 193,000, and there was no responsibility for your actions, for throwing your family out on the street. That's what happened in that sentence. And when it was said, we went to court again and the court confirmed it. There's a April sentence. Besides, when it comes to compensation, it's an erasation. It's all about that, because it's too bad...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u110	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Swede's question. [[Voice from the room: Remotely.]] I understand remotely, of course. I ask Senator Necessary to ask you a question. [[Senator Swede.]] But the senator didn't ask a question, even though I asked him to. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator, I have three questions for you. First question. As an ombudsman, will you consider access to modern medical supplies as a civil right and therefore seek access to in vitro treatments as a modern treatment? That's the first question. Second question. As an ombudsman, will you stand in the position that you have access to the so-called. tablets the day after constitute a civil right and that they should be available to those in need of a non-prescription pharmacies? And the third question. As ombudsman, will you act in the same way as ombudsman Adam Bodnar, that is, when you are going to refer a request to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutional compatibility of a provision and there will be a designated composition in which they will sit. Judges of the doubles, will you withdraw this request because of the obvious legal defect of the subsequent judgment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u112	Thank you, Senator. Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u113	Here's what I'm gonna say. When it comes to in vitro, I think I've already said it. Senator Beata's question... That's one thing. Second thing. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, every time there is a case, these are very important matters for people. It'll be my share, if I'm a spokesperson, in this case. If the application is for repairs... I mean, harm... Constitutional regulations... This is mostly in the Court. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u114	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u115	Senator, I'm asking for an answer. The questions you asked Senator Beat Małecka-Libera were about your political activities, and I'm asking you as an ombudsman. Do you think that access to modern medicine, to its prey, including the treatment of in vitro infertility, is a civil right and will you seek that these treatments be reimbursed by the State to be allowed to support them? Will you support this as a spokesman? That's a question for you as your spokesperson. I want to find out. Is that a civil right for you or not? You didn't answer the question about the pill the day after either, so I'm asking you again. As to the response to the Constitutional Tribunal... That's not what I asked. I'd like two answers to the first two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u117	Like I said, I'll act by law and by law. That's the most important thing because that's what the spokesperson is for. If I say so, she saw a chance or a possibility for good regulations, good methods, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u118	Thank you very much. Please, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm not asking any more questions because I don't see the point. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! Senator! I have three questions. First: will you support and uphold those complaints that Adam Bodnar brought to the administrative courts regarding resolutions against LGBT ideology? In 4 cases, the Ombudsman won these cases. What is your position on this matter? That's the first question. Second question: what do you think about the practice of forced deployment of prosecutors to remote units? Don't you think that violates the rights of the prosecutors? This is taken suddenly, without taking into account the family and life situation. And the third question is, what do you think about the practice of sudden dismissal, this happens overnight, without prejudice from a multi-annual delegation of prosecutors from the higher-ranking prosecutors' office? Do you think they should apply here? Just the law on the D.A.'s office, or the labour code? Are the basic principles of labour law applicable here, i.e. the prohibition of one-sided amendment of the employment rules without giving notice of previous working conditions and equal treatment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u121	As for the first question, here was the answer. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, these are possibilities, such regulations... But if there's any harm and someone comes to me with this case, I'll recognize it every time. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, but there was a third question.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: But they are similar.]] No, they're not alike. One... I mean, no, no, no... [[Mrs Senator, very often sentences formulated in the Polish language we use sound similar to each other, which does not mean that they mean the same thing, really.]] Michael, stop it. Okay? So... But... [[Because the senator asked three completely separate questions. I'm defending the senator's right to get answers to each of them.]] Good. So I'm gonna say that when it comes to the D.A.'s office, it's the rules. And if the person who thinks she's hurt comes to me, then every time there's help... I will, of course, recognize this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u122	In this third case, do you know what the Supreme Court has recently said?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u123	No, please... [[The question is... let me be clear. Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka asked you as a candidate for the Ombudsman if you knew the Supreme Court ruling in the case of...]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka:... regarding the cancellation of the delegation without notice.]] He was on the DA's side, right? I mean, that... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: But I am the one asking the question, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u124	Senator, you can answer that you don't know this... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: But I have already said.]] That you don't know? [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Well, I said.]] Mrs. Marshal, the senator doesn't know the answer to that question. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Yes, of course I know... I got the answer to the first question. I won't ask questions because it doesn't make sense.]] Thank you. The questioning will have a character of abuse. Does the senator have any other questions? [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you.]] I ask you, Marshal Blanket, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, First of all, I would like to thank the senator very much for these thousands of cases, these human cases that you have taken on to help ordinary people. You spoke in your speech about years of work, about the thousands of different proposals with which citizens referred to you as a Member as a senator. And you really are such an informal advocate of civil rights, because you've dealt with and continue to deal with the affairs of people, the owners of cooperative housing, the victims of this bureaucratic machine, the landlords, and the people affected by usury. The numbers you were talking about are impressive. I'd like to ask, Senator, what does your day-to-day job look like, what your office looks like, how many people work in this office? Because you're talking about dozens of cases you've won, hundreds of cases brought to court, and you're talking about this kind of daily help, about the fact that people are actually helping people in cases that are often hopeless. They either go back to their homes or they don't have to pay wrongly charged interest, etc., etc. So I'd like to ask, how many people work in your office if there are so many things that you can help people? And my second question, Senator. We have for some time in Polish law an institution such as an emergency complaint Also thanks to your efforts and your legislative proposals. As far as I know, the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, has received more than 8 000 requests for such an emergency complaint, of which the Ombudsman has made such a complaint only in 36 cases. Since you are also approached by people to whom you are pointing out this emergency complaint as this last resort in many cases, I have a question: do you really think that over 8,000 requests for an emergency complaint are such a good proportion? To your knowledge, in your opinion, have these requests for an emergency complaint been made by the Ombudsman far too little? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u126	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u127	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way: when it comes to the operation of my office, there are two people there who work very hard as I do, but they also work very hard because they also know that this work is serving people. And we've done a lot. Anyway, I was talking about it. This is just a part of the things that you do every day, there are about 100 emails every day, there are people who come or come from Poland. Because they're not just people from Olsztyn, they're people from the south, and they're from the north. Actually, there's no place in Poland where people wouldn't come to us. But that's because I'm effective, we're effective. And I know all these years... And whether it's a doctor or a lawyer or a farmer who comes to us... we know that if we can... 'Cause today I'm thinking... That's why I'm here, that's why I know that if I'm a spokesman, I'll have tools, more tools, and that I can help more. Nevertheless, there are only two people there, but we managed to do a lot. As far as the emergency complaint is concerned, it is really a legal institution that... I fought for it for a long time because we know what the institutions are like today. The complaint is deleted... All these things concern the law, not the fact. We've been looking for something that, despite the fact that the case is closed, there's a verdict. And sometimes he grossly violates the law... We were looking for something to help people. Indeed, since 2014, there have been first such attempts, first writings. As we saw, for example. that an entrepreneur who had a fantastic company and built a restaurant, but turned out to be wrong... And this contractor went to court, and the court had to pay for the construction, and it turned out that there were no foundations. And all these years, we've been fighting on this entrepreneur's side. 'Cause it can't be that way. And we won this case, and there was an expert case... But it was years. Sometimes these are years when it comes to fighting for such normal justice. And an emergency complaint is exactly the chance for this justice. As for the Ombudsman's actions, I will say this: I will not say who works, I do not want to comment on it. But I'm gonna be... if I'm a spokesperson, then I'm definitely gonna be a citizen's spokesperson, and I'm definitely not gonna be a political spokesperson. Therefore, as the senators today ask me for all kinds of answers, I can answer... In fact, the answer should be what the Ombudsman should give in his area, because I do not want to respond as a politician today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Me too.]] Of course. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to say that, with two people in your office, you've helped thousands of people, so I can only imagine that if you were in charge of the Ombudsman's office with all the equipment at your disposal, how many people would you be able to help. It would certainly be a huge number and Poles would be very satisfied with such activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal, it wasn't a question. I didn't interrupt you, but it wasn't a question, it was your opinion, which you have the right to express in the debate. [[Yes, of course...]] The warmest thing you've ever said to me is... [[Yes, of course...]] ...Senator of the Old One, or critical one, each of us can say... [[Yes, of course...]] ...in the debate. Now we're asking questions. [[Yes, of course. I've abused your patience a little bit.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Klich's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I've listened very carefully to everything you've said, but I have the impression that time has stopped for you in 2015. Because you have completely missed everything that happened in Poland after 2015. Unfortunately, you have actively participated in these activities, the result of which is the abolition of the independence of the judiciary in Poland. You participated in the liquidation, and are responsible for this, the autonomy of the prosecutor's office and the submission of the prosecutor's office to political power. You are also responsible for the fact that, starting with the Surveillance Act, the rights and freedoms of citizens are restricted in subsequent acts. I'm gonna give you a few examples not to be literal. As far as the surveillance bill is concerned, you voted against the motion to reject the law because of its non-constitutionality. You voted against the motion to reject the muzzle bill. You voted against the proposal to reject the law about the prosecutor's office, which I told you about in 2016. Finally, you voted against the proposals to reject laws abolishing the independence of Polish courts, starting with the Supreme Court Act, through the law on the National Courts of Justice, and ending with the laws on universal courts. How can you at this moment... I would like to know how you want to defend against the power of civil liberties, freedom and rights of Poles and Poles, since you have acted against these Poles and Poles when it comes to their rights enshrined in the Constitution? How can you do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u132	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u133	Normally, because I'm gonna fight for people every time. But this is, Mr. Senator, a political statement. Your statement is a political statement. Here's what I'm gonna say: there's a middle, too. Because you were talking about the D.A.'s office. I remember that bill about the D.A.'s office, and I know how it worked, Mr. Senator. We need to see what the facts are. 'Cause the D.A. could actually... Let me rephrase that. The D.A.'s boss himself said that this bill that he's working on, right, was the boss back then... He said it was a very bad bill, because it's not a bill for people. The prosecutors actually acted without any supervision, without... well, that was the opinion of the head of the prosecutor's office. But, as I say, I'm not going to go into politics right now, because that's a statement. Typically politics. Typically, it's a politician's statement. And every time, every time... Because above all, we should be equal to the law. By the law, Mr. Senator. And whether I'm a senator or someone's a farmer and someone's a judge, everyone should always be equal to the law. So cancer isn't like that... And I... This is a longer conversation, but politically, not with a candidate for spokesperson, for an RPO.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u134	Mrs. Senator... I must refer to this, Mr. Marshal, if I may. Of course I do, Mr. Senator. Now. I just want to point out to the senator that making a plea against the Senate of the Republic of Poland... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: The fact that he is political...]] ...that he's having a political discussion... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Well, that's normal.]] ...is a misplaced charge, because the Senate is part of the political system of the brightest Republic. And the senator... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: But, I don't say...]] ...and we're all politicians. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Of course, Mr Marshal. I'm not saying...]] So I would ask you not to accuse me of this. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron:... that this is an accusation, I'm just saying that because I am today in the role of candidate for spokesperson, and this is typically political...]] You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u135	I would just like to correct, Senator, and ask for a substantive explanation. It's not political, it's substantive. You're a par excellence politician. You are a politician. You are a senator of the Republic of Poland. And I'm a politician. You're a politician to the highest degree, because you've been in politics for years. I'm not asking you about politics, I'm asking you about laws that have their content. I'm asking you, among other things. for the law on the prosecution, against the rejection of which you were, which contains the same thing as I do, because we were sitting in the same room, e.g. the possibility for the prosecutor's office to justify the unlawful conduct of a minor prosecutor, which includes e.g. the possibility for the prosecutor in charge of the case to be placed at the disposal of the prosecutor in charge of the case. I'm asking you about these things, these solutions that have eliminated the independence of the prosecution, and that was an element guaranteeing civil rights and freedoms. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u136	You're welcome, Marshal, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u137	If you ask me in substance, I will say this: as a spokesman, I will act in accordance with the law and within the framework of this law. Nevertheless, if it is necessary... I mean, if there's an initiative or I want to make a difference, I'm sure I'm gonna be talking to corporations or prosecutors. 'Cause you're asking about this area. Or some other area... Every time, if that's the rule... They should be good enough for people and good enough for you to do what you do. Hey, hey, They were good for the corporation, too. [[I need to ask you another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u138	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u139	I'm asking you a very substantive question. We don't talk about space solutions. We are talking about what is here and now in Poland. We talk, for example. The fact that a citizen doesn't really have... It has a formal possibility, but in fact it is not possible to find out whether it was being surveilled on the Internet or not. Because, as you remember, in the bill against which you voted, there is a solution that gives the citizen the opportunity to be monitored by a hard link between the services and the police without the prior consent of the provider. This solution has been adopted. Is this the solution... And this solution restricts civil rights. And now a statement, like you say, doesn't mean anything. I ask you: will these solutions, which have restricted civil rights, freedoms and human rights in recent years, be of interest to you and will you ask for a change in favour of Poles and Poles whose rights have been restricted?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u141	Yes. Every time there's a need for change and it's about freedom, dignity, rights and equality, I'll do it too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz remotely... [[I'm here. I'm here.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u143	Senator, I have three short questions. I would ask for such a specific answer, either yes or no and no longer enter into any debate, only: yes or no. The first question is, will you support the entrepreneurs whose government has shut down their legitimate businesses in a dispute with the government? Yes or no. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: But now do I have to answer or then 3 questions?]] Do you want me to say it again?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u144	No. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you very much, sir, that we, however... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Yes.]] ...have been very serious. It's not, I'm sorry... Mr. Senator, with all due respect, this isn't a game show. If the senator would be kind enough to formulate... [[But that's the question.]] ...your questions and ask for 3 short answers, I will try to enforce these answers from the senator, but let's not turn these discussions into something that they are not. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The senator is remote. You don't see Senator Tyszkiewicz because he's not in the O.R., he's in another room. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u145	Mr. Marshal, I asked a question and I expected an answer yes or no. I don't see anything unusual here. But okay, okay. Thank you very much. The senator answered me. And I'm grateful for that. Second question: will you appoint your deputies completely independently and have you already promised any positions to the representatives of the political parties that support you? The previous candidate, Mr Wróblewski, made it clear what kind of posts he will call for. Could you answer if you've already declared your job to someone at the Ombudsman's Office as your deputies?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u146	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u147	And the third? [[Well, these are specific questions, Senator. It's very difficult...]] Mr. Senator, are these all the questions, or aren't they? [[No, I said three questions. I got my first answer. I'm gonna ask you to answer the second one and I'm gonna ask you the third one.]] Every time... Good. So I answer the first question: yes. Well, it's known that entrepreneurs do... especially since there's a bill that's in our circle too... As for the deputies: no, of course not. I'm even surprised when it comes to such a question. No. Every time I'm a spokesperson, they'll be independent, and I'll be independent too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u148	Mrs. Senator, I made it clear that your previous candidate, Prof. Wróblewski, clearly publicly, at the open courthouse, told whom he had made proposals. And I asked if you'd filed it. If you haven't made an offer, you haven't promised anyone, then there's no point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u149	No. No, but I'm already... But you asked me exactly if I'd do it if I was a spokesperson... [[No. I asked if you'd made any such suggestions.]] No. [[No. Sure. Sure. And one last question...]] You even asked further that the ruling party... [[No, I didn't say that.]] I thought so. Nothing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u150	I didn't say that. And one last question. You repeatedly say that you act legally and on the basis of the law. To be honest, this is a bit surprising for me, because I can't imagine that the senator of the Republic of Poland thought at all that he would act against the law, and you repeated it repeatedly. I'm also very impressed that two office workers do tens of thousands of things. And I'm bowing my forehead. But from what I've read, law firms still support your work. Because if you think about it that 2 employees handle tens, tens of thousands of cases and replace the courts, I'm beginning to wonder if the institution of the courts is needed at all, since it can be handled in a completely different way. Because like I said... Do you work with many law firms? Because I honestly can't imagine two people doing tens of thousands of things. I understand you're working with law firms and these law firms are supporting you in the Senator's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. I remind all senators of... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Last...]] ...to speak to the microphone, especially in the case of a remote call, so that we can all hear the speech well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u152	One last question. Mr. Senator, let me put it this way... Yes, I have 2 people, 1 assistant and a lawyer who really work very hard. And sometimes there's some volunteering. Now we have a person who comes in there, sometimes helps, sometimes... But it's like I'm gonna say... well, not law firms, just people who help, it's like volunteering. And there are actually a lot of these things. But it's a matter of all that time. I'm not saying it was for a year or two. I'm talking about this whole period when it comes to these things. But that's always been the way we've worked, and that's how we work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Breeza's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Senator! I have a question about a rather sadistic sentence... Well, quite... a very sadistic judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. You were talking about helping citizens. And now I'm gonna ask you a question, putting up a citizen's problem, a citizen who's gonna report to you with such a problem. I'd like to ask you a question. Whether forcing a woman, a citizen to report a child who is known to be terminally ill, forcing her to go to KTG, ultrasound with a child who is fatally ill, with an unchaste, brainless, headless, forcing her to go with her partner, her husband every few days to try to find out whether this child is already dying or not, whether the state's behaviour towards women fulfils the condition of inhuman treatment expressed in international law, as well as in the Polish Constitution, in Article. 40? Is this inhumane treatment of a woman by the state?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u155	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u156	If a woman comes to me with such a problem, I'll help her. [[And how, Senator? What would you advise such a woman, Polce?]] Every time... in life, things that come to us, it's not a theory. Every time there's a man. or documents, and then we talk. And you, Mr. Senator, say so, tells a story, so like I said... [[Well, these are situations, Senator, which are...]] I know... Every time I said... [[...the consequence...]] ...I'll help you, every time. [[... Sadistic law. But how can we help such a woman?]] But this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...if that person comes, I'll do it... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u157	Good. That's the second question. Senator, the question is also practical. I know this case a few years ago when the couple were able to save one of the twins because there was a legal abortion of the dying fetus. Well, it happens that in the case of twin pregnancy, one of the foetuses dies. And the rescue by 2020 was the removal of the fetus with a fatal defect, so-called. Termination, so as to save this child, which is healthy. And now the question is: what are you going to do when your citizen, Polka and her husband, her partner, comes to see you, maybe with her parents and ask what she is going to do today to save this healthy child who could still be born in 2020? How do you save a child? I would add that I have an answer from the Ministry of Health, which he admits, in response to the senator's intervention, that the legal state has indeed changed and that the state condemns children who could be born healthy to death.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u159	Same... Mr. Senator, if I have this problem reported, I'll be helping. You're asking me to have an abortion on purpose, so to speak... So if I know this problem, if I have this person, this story, every time I want to help. [[We represent the facts. We'd like to know...]] Right. Like I said, yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u160	Thank you very much. Does the senator have any further questions? [[No, I don't. It's all over now. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't going to speak, but your Marshal Blanket made me ask... [[Voice from the room: Louder, Mr. Senator.]] I've got my mic on, but the mask isn't... I wasn't going to speak, as I said, but your Marshal's statement and your question to the senator led me to this. By the way, I have to say, by listening to the senator's answer, that Ignorantia iuris noket. Contrary to what you said in your speech, I think that in many situations it would be useful to know the law. But I'm going back to what Marshal Blanket said. She said that the emergency complaint... suggested that if you were in Bodnar's office, the percentage of complaints would probably be higher. ♪ We don't know ♪ And many times this came out during our committee's meetings. The problem is, unfortunately, the senator hasn't always been there. It's about the Human Rights Committee. It's been repeated over and over again that budget cuts have led to... Many times Bodnar complained that he simply had no one to do so. I have not heard such a statement from the senator in this term of office, in which you would say that the Ombudsman's budget should be increased, that it should not be reduced. I haven't heard, and I've been to all the committee meetings. My question is this. How did the senator vote on the amendment aimed at increasing the Ombudsman's budget? That's the same question I asked your predecessors who stood before us here. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u162	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u163	Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. You asked me here, Senator, about this spokesperson... I said I wouldn't comment on that. I'm not gonna comment on that, because this is the Ombudsman's job. That's it, yeah. And as far as the budget is concerned, he knows what he's supposed to be like. If I'm a spokesperson... [[But how did you vote?]] About what? [[How did you vote on the amendment to increase the Ombudsman's budget? Well, answer me, that's a very simple question. How did you vote?]] [[Who remembers today...]] Well, I'm sure the senator remembers, he's prepared... [[Of course I remember, Mr. Senator, we remember.]] Yeah, well, it's hard to-- that's what that's for, isn't it? [[I'm the one who's gonna help. We're not gonna wait too long. The senator didn't vote at all.]] Oh, well, you see, Mr. Senator, you see, well... [[Well, you didn't vote at all.]] Because I need to see what the budget is, whether it should be more or less... [[And it was the senator who didn't check it out before the vote? Because that's the only place the senator didn't vote at that point.]] [[Voice from the room: Leave it...]] That's why. Maybe, I don't know. Mr. Senator, I don't know. [[But I'll ask if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u164	Mr. Senator, I'll let you in, but... [[I know, Mr. Marshal, but for 40 minutes...]] Mr. Senator, I don't know if you've noticed there's a change of conductor. [[And change the rules.]] Don't change the rules. I'll put you in the end 'cause the others are waiting. There can't be such a dialogue between the senator and you. Senator Łyczak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u165	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I think the marathon of these difficult and unpleasant questions is over. I admire your mental and physical condition. I don't think those questions would be that much if... this is where I come to my question. Have you met or had you had an opportunity to meet with any particular groups in the Senate? As we know, the date of today's meeting, today's vote of all He surprised us. Right? As a rule, the Senate was voting on very important matters late or at the latest, as soon as possible. And my further question. What do you think led to this decision? Because this decision to vote quickly, I suspect, made it impossible for you to meet with the various factions in the Senate and convince them that they were right.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u166	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u167	I already said in public that it was a surprise to me. I was surprised. Because two days... I just didn't know that, so I just... Well, it is. I'm glad to say that I'm a candidate because I know it's an office I hope so much. For the people. That's it. Whether it's a date or not, I'll be ready every time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u169	You referred, Senator, to the fact that you will be attending the Constitutional Court on various matters. We now have a situation regarding the bill that you initiated and in which the Ombudsman applied to the Constitutional Tribunal. There's been a conviction in this case. The case concerns non-compliance with the Constitution of the Article. 4 Act amending the Housing Cooperatives Act. Will you continue this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u170	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u171	Of course I do. The project has already been prepared. Of course I do. This is all done, and every time I say so, I'm gonna be on the side of people. This case needs to be finished, because it can't be that we're in the 21st century and that people, owners, don't have rights. [[Senator, that's not the case, but thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u172	Thank you. Senator Comfort, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u173	Senator, we've been working on the same committee for six years, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. This is the committee that, together with the Legislative Commission, has the most work to do. I've counted: during these six years, this committee has met more than 400 times. In our time, we both succumbed to serious health perturbations, and for a while we were both excluded from work. Me earlier, senator later. This is a random event that we have no influence on, this is our misfortune that has happened to us. But I counted your presence before the senator went down with her health. You weren't at nearly 100 at the 200 committee meetings we had. [[Olek, more class.]] Half. So I'd like to ask you something. This is a very responsible office, you have to be there, on the spot. Can the senator guarantee that what happened when we were both healthy won't happen again?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u174	Senator, are you sure that if you leave this room, something will happen to you or not? How can you... How can I say... Let me rephrase that. I had a problem three years ago. Back when I wasn't in session, it was rehab. Every day I've been practicing... [[Senator, that's why I asked about the time before this incident, before this incident...]] Excuse me... I've worked every day, I've been practicing to be healthy. I'm healthy, I feel great, and I want to do my job the way it was before. I'm speaking normally, and there was a problem mostly when it comes to speech. So today I feel really good. And if you ask me what happens next... Mr. Senator, I don't know if you'll be healthy or ill. Nobody knows that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u175	Excuse me, Senator, you turned my question around in a way that made me look bad. I asked about the time when we were both healthy, because I said I was absent from my health problems, too. So I was asking about the time when we were both healthy and you weren't at half the committee meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u176	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u177	...Last time it's like rehab.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u178	Thank you, Senator. I have a question. Senator, were you personally at the Senior Convention yesterday, where we were discussing the date of the vote on your candidacy this morning? There were different dates, the marshal proposed today. Did you propose a different deadline? Have you expressed any regard for this term?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u179	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Marshal, I said I was ready every day, no problem. I held off last night and I was... The fact that I was surprised is normal, but I held back... That's why it's a matter of the day. That's it. I said I'm ready every day because I work every day and every day... and I can tell you what I've been doing, what I've got, what I've got, what I can tell you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u180	Senator, I don't want you to come back to this, I'm just asking, because you've been putting such a problem on your mind that there's some surprise. So I asked... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staroń: Once again, Mr. Marshal...]] Have you ever been to this Seniors Convention... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Yes, yes...]] And did you protest and propose a different date in a relationship...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u181	I stopped because I knew... After all, we know what most of the convention is, it doesn't make sense to even... So I held back and I'm ready.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u182	Thank you very much. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Thank you.]] There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Applause]] [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Lydia Staron: Thank you very, very much.]] Thank you, ma'am. Now I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Lydia Staroń is unlikely to be elected by our House today as ombudsman. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But it's not because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, please calm down! I call to order Senator Roman... excuse me, Robert Mammothov, who disturbs, who shouts every once in a while... and most likely...]] [[There you go.]] Most likely the senator will not be elected ombudsman, but it will not be because of me and my colleagues. Also those who are disturbing me now in my speech We will vote against your candidacy. Your candidacy in this House will fall because you really do not want to choose President Jarosław Kaczyński, you do not want to choose Law and Justice. You were the victim of an internal war in a power camp, a war between Jarosław Gowin and Jarosław Kaczyński. You said it yourself, Senator, which is why I'm allowing myself to mention it. You yourself said, you revealed to the public that first Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin encouraged you to run as an ombudsman. Those are your words. Later, as you know, Mr. Jarosław Gowin changed his mind. Your candidacy was taken by Jarosław Kaczyński for one purpose. Apparently, under the influence of not the best advice, President Jarosław Kaczyński decided that, when voting on your candidacy, he could prove that he could have a stand-alone majority in the lower chamber of the Polish Parliament, without the votes of the party, the Agreement of Jarosław Gowin. To prove it, you've been nominated. It's all for that. The problem with the power camp is that... And we are actually very grateful to you because thanks to your becoming a candidate, we have all found that Jarosław Kaczyński cannot rule Poland today without Jarosław Gowin. Even if the senator... And for that you owe great gratitude, even if Mr.Jarosław Gowin does not learn from this that it is up to him whether Jarosław Kaczyński will rule Poland, even if he does not learn that he can deprive this Jarosław Kaczyński of power over Poland. And today we know it's in his hands. The mere fact that without the votes of the Jarosław Gowin Agreement Law and Justice cannot rule alone means that for the coming years, until the end of the term of office, this party will have its teeth knocked out. Its legislative teeth were knocked out because it is unable to gather a majority that would support its most radical ideas. And for that, the senator deserves our gratitude. If it weren't for you, we wouldn't have found out so soon. You were the victim of a political one. I'm sorry to say this. It's a scam. But millions of Polish citizens who voted for Law and Justice were also the victims of a very similar procedure, as it turns out, mistakenly convinced that the name of this party is appropriate to the policy that this party is leading. And that leads us to the second reason why we cannot vote for your candidacy as ombudsman. Your views on civil rights I believe that I speak on behalf of the majority of this House just do not respond. But not because, Senator, you don't suit us with independence or lack of political affiliation. In my eyes, it deserves a great deal of respect. You, Mrs. Senator, have done something that few politicians in Poland have done. You've changed the political sympathy of your constituency. According to all indications in your constituency, the Senate should be won by an opposition candidate. You win in your constituency no matter how moody this constituency is, what they are. You're a huge asset in the power camp, you're expanding his electorate. This is certainly your achievement. Although I respectfully relate to this achievement, I cannot overlook what my colleagues have said in their questions. In the most important votes in the last five years, when the political interests of the Law and Justice were at stake on one side and in the other in European, humanly understood civil rights, you were always on the side of the political interests of Law and Justice against the interests of citizens. And that's the political charge I dare to put up with you. This does not, of course, change the fact, Senator, that the debate on the rule of law that you wanted to avoid here, suggesting to us that this is a political debate Well, Senator, that's why so many questions were about the rule of law, that today, and that must be said in every debate that concerns it. The most important question facing voters who have chosen each of us, 100 Senators of the Republic of Poland, the most important question concerning our near future is: will the European Union take our money from the Fund for Reconstruction? Each day brings new information on the growing conflict between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the various institutions of the European Union. And today we know very clearly that the attitude towards civil rights, and therefore also the role of the Ombudsman in stopping, in stopping the illegal policy of Mr.Matthew Morawiecki's office, has a key role from the point of view of the interests of the citizens, because it is a struggle. The fight for the rule of law is a fight for Polish money, it is a fight to ensure that the 770 billion euro, which the government boasts on billboards like Poland long and wide, is not just a billboard problem, but is visible in the pockets of the Polish state and in the pockets of Polish citizens. If your thinking and thinking of the government with which you are compatible in the field of civil rights triumphs, then Poland will be considered a state that violates the rule of law and will lose that money. Therefore, anyone who fights against the reform of the Ziobra justice system, anyone who fights today with the government of Matthew Morawicki, does not fight him as an opposition, fights him as a Pole who does not want Poland to lose a great civilization opportunity. And that's why I, Senator, cannot vote for you as an advocate of civil rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u184	Thank you, Senator. And please... [[Voice from the room: Now Kazimierz Ujazdowski.]] Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that in the speech by Marshal Kaminski there was a ton of respect for the person, because we are arguing about principles, and we respect each other and we will work together in the High House, and I believe that with the participation of Senator Staron. I would therefore like to talk about the principles, and first of all about the origin of the Ombudsman's institution. She in our civilization circle arose not in opposition to courts or legal professions, but to the power of the state, to political power, to administration. As one of the institutions of law control, as one of the institutions of freedom. We therefore have the right to expect a candidate for an ombudsman to guarantee independence above all else, but also that his core area of action should be a zone of freedom, and that he should restore, and not reduce, public confidence, which is particularly important in Poland. And independence is not an abstract issue. It's not a question of some cold system rule, it's a principle that means a credible guarantee in the eyes of citizens to stand on their side. We must therefore not overlook the issue of the attitude towards judicial reform. And I want to say this very precisely... I belonged to politicians who spoke out loud about the weaknesses of the Polish justice system after 1989 and I never idealized this picture. However, there is nothing to justify what happened after 2015, because we are not dealing with reform for the benefit of citizens, but we are dealing with the quadruple jurisdiction of the judiciary, i.e.: the control of the Constitutional Tribunal, full control of the National Judicial Council, the abolition of the judiciary and the superpower of the Minister of Justice as Attorney General. This is not only against European rules, which the centroright people do not need to appreciate, but it is completely incompatible with the Polish system tradition. This is completely incompatible with the Polish political tradition, because she appreciated the independence of judges more than many other European countries, and this system of administration of justice with the growing subjective participation of judges was created in the Second Republic, in a regulation on the system of common courts issued at the end of the 20's, which is a matrix of the system regulations adopted after 1989. We cannot be surprised that this judiciary is less effective than the previous ones. In so far as it is possible to identify various options for the system and functionality of the judiciary within an independent judiciary Everyone knows that the British have better courts than the Italians, but in the history of the world there is no effective judiciary, which is deprived of independence. It just doesn't exist. And there is no indifferent position of candidate for the Ombudsman's office on this matter. If there was no clear resistance in this case He may have grown out of a completely different sensitivity than the one that liberal democracy advocates have in some progressive variant, because he could have grown up on the basis of the Polish constitutional tradition, so we have the right to believe that in such matters as the Ombudsman will have to clash with political power and administration, your vote will run out. When it is necessary to claim citizens' rights violated by force ministries, when people who have been fired from work in the public sector have to be claimed, and they are often very hurt and have nothing to do with political opposition, they have just been fired to give seats to those recommended by political parties. Finally, you will lack your voice on an extremely important issue or in a very important sphere of response to what public television does. Because public television in Poland never represented high standards, but even television in the 1980s did not deprive people and social groups of dignity, people were not represented as corrupt thieves, such materials were not. The entire social groups were not divisive, doctors were not considered to be dishonest, teachers were not considered to be over-earned, and teachers were not considered to be self-centered. It's hard to imagine an ombudsman absent from such situations at such moments. And we have the right to believe that if, on such an important matter as defending civilized standards, you lacked the voice of a senator, then you will not oppose the barbarism of public television. At the same time, I say this without sympathy to the standards of public television at all. And what's happening now is absolutely barbaric. This is absolutely barbaric. And the Ombudsman defends the principles of equality and dignity of citizens even when there is no clear violation of legal standards. And this isn't even about... I do not ask these questions at all, because the Ombudsman has the right to his sensitivity, Prof. Zoll had a chadeck sensitivity, Prof. Bodnar rather a centre-left one, but each of the Advocates sought to protect fundamental rights in its entirety. If he doesn't have the quality of independence from political power, then... We have the right to believe that a whole range of fundamental rights, freedom of assembly, civil service standards and many other rights will be absent from your practice. The second point is public confidence. I listened very carefully to Senator Staron's answers. There was a motive at first that you'd be able to stand up to the legal profession. We need to be specific about this. There are dishonest lawyers. There are dishonest lawyers. There are dishonest professors. There are dishonest politicians. There are dishonest officials. But undermining public confidence in the entire professions is something that undermines confidence in state institutions, and that cannot be done. It is impossible to create the impression that whole groups are corrupt, that whole groups are corrupt. You should demonstrate a high degree of public trust and the ability to cooperate if this declaration of trans-politicality and the restoration of extensive cooperation is to be authentic. Well, that's a very, very short one. And then there's the third point. In which zone you are in. If we look at the constitution, we'll see that the spokesperson is in the freedom zone, not in the political power zone. He's in the area of law enforcement. And such a natural sphere of existence is solidarity with institutions that defend citizens' freedom, not with political power and administration. It's obvious. I respect opinions. You can have that kind of attitude. You can say, for example, that there is no other option. I understand some of you think so. And support the reform or political change of Minister Ziobra. I find it absolutely destructive and inefficient myself. You can have such views, only that... you can have such a position, only that it is completely inadequate for the government mission, which is to act as an ombudsman. This is a function of independence, trust and freedom, not cooperation with power. [[Mr. Senator...]] We don't need a supporter for the Minister of Justice. We need an independent Ombudsman. And I'm convinced that most of the Senate will sooner or later lead to such a choice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 208 of the Constitution provides that the Ombudsman is to uphold the freedoms, human rights and the citizen as defined in the Constitution and other normative acts. Senator, our colleague Lydia Staron is running for this honorable office. She introduced herself as a social activist, a public defender. She described most of the time, when she spoke, her struggle with the co-workers, with the presidents. But Poland is not only cooperative law. You have not answered the question whether you have ever said the word "sorry" to a person who, among other things, has said the word "sorry." You were inspired to spend several months in jail unjustly. I'm just... I'm sorry. And the Ombudsman should uphold the dignity and human rights of everyone. Second line. You have no idea of law or procedure, and therefore you do not meet the basic condition of the article. 2 of the Act on the Ombudsman: The speaker may be a Polish citizen distinguished by legal knowledge, professional experience. You don't have legal knowledge, it's hard to talk about standing out. And one more aspect. As a Member, you voted against the Government's In vitro Act and against the Anti-violence Convention. When we tried to destroy the rule of law in the Senate, you always voted differently: the law against the rejection of the law; the law on envelope elections did not vote; the law on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure, i.e. the immediate isolation of the perpetrator of domestic violence, you did not vote; the resolution on the restriction of civil rights, you did not vote; the resolution on the role of public media, you did not vote; the resolution on the defence of independence and independence of courts did not vote. Therefore, in my view, you are simply not fit to be an ombudsman and I will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u188	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Józef Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u189	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! It is impossible not to refer to the content that we have heard in the voices we have heard. I will return to the short story that happened after we had the opportunity to vote for the last of the candidates, Mr. Wróblewski. I'll just say it was an excellent candidacy in every way, and I think everyone in this room will agree with me. Then a representative of the group who counts 4 people in our Senate said, comforting to me: let's not worry, in the next election we will elect a beautiful lady spokesperson. I thought this would happen, that was the declaration, but today, in the statements of the group's representative, we see a completely different approach to this situation. I think, ladies and gentlemen, this difference has come about for a completely different reason. The opposition, which also has no major objections to Senator Staroń, generally in Poland known, respected, will not vote against just because there are reasons for discrediting the senator, but because this opposition, after all strong, wise, is afraid of one thing: it is afraid of whoever sits in her seat, in her chair, as if we chose Senator Staroń, and what will happen in the Senate then. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think and appeal... [[Senator...]] This will be judged by Poles, it will be judged by Poles. I appeal and ask the High House to finally finish this disgraceful spectacle and elect a spokesman today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u190	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is not easy to discuss the candidacy of Mrs. Lydia Staron, because she is our colleague, we know her well, some of us for many, many years. I had the opportunity to work with her at the Independent Senators' Club, and I don't think it's a candidacy completely devoid of merit. Certainly, as far as the passion for defending people is concerned, the senator showed a lot of activity, probably more than average senators, although I would not like the impression that there is only one senator or one senator in this Senate who deals with ordinary people's affairs. This is certainly not the case, and you know it very well. But indeed, that part of the senator's activity was very visible and significant. Of course, mistakes also occur in this activity. Such a mistake, in part, was the case of the Housing Cooperative of the Lake District and Mr. Procyk. You were partly right there, Senator, and you were partly wrong. And where you were wrong, it's fair to admit it. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen, and that's sad. But, ladies and gentlemen, the ombudsman is not just a spokesperson of economic rights, I would say, material. We'll look at the constitution. We have economic rights there and we have political rights. And these political laws are absolutely no less important than these economic issues. These political rights, i.e. civil liberties, the right to association, the right to public demonstrations, etc., etc. I'm not going to mention it all. Access to court, fair, objective, support, fair, fair, for non-governmental organizations... Well, there's a whole bunch of these kind of civil rights. And what we have a problem with all the time, first with Mr.Peter Wawrzyk, then with Mr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski, and now with the senator, is that the other part, i.e. These political rights are being treated, well, I would say, in accordance with this law and the actions that the current government team is undertaking. And this is unacceptable, this is simply unacceptable. And here my previous speakers have already talked about matters of independence of the courts, matters of violation of the Constitution on these issues. And the Ombudsman must not be indifferent to this. The senator says I'll act according to the law. In fact, every question in the field of political rights will be answered: I will act in accordance with the law. But with what right? Is it in accordance with the Constitution? Well, if you accept such a reasoning that always the ombudsman will act in accordance with the law and not wonder what the law is, then... I'm very sorry, Senator, dear Lidko, to say so: this is an echo from the East. It's an echo from the East. I have heard, for example, that in Russia protesters in the streets are closed because they are not allowed to protest in the streets. You can't call Putin a dictator, because if you call him a dictator out loud, you can go to jail. And people come to the ombudsman in Russia and say, what's going on? Please intervene! And he says, "I'm sorry, the law has been violated, and so, well, my hands are tied. Yes, yes, if this law were broken in any way... But it is, unfortunately. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Today we have situations where we want to know what is the opinion of the ombudsman, in this case the candidate for ombudsman rights, on various issues that upset a significant part of the Polish society, I will not talk about most of them, or the minority, a significant part of the Polish society, and in many cases the majority. So if we're asking about the anti-violence convention, we don't like the fact that the senator voted against this convention. If we're asking about in vitro, funding, extension of this program, we don't like the fact that the senator voted against this kind of solution. If we ask about the so-called. LGBT-free zones, we don't like the fact that the senator avoids the answer and says she hasn't read these resolutions. If someone's running for spokesperson, they should know what's going on here. If we hear that the cases of judgments of the Court of Human Rights or of the Court of Justice of the European Union are political and the Senator will not be involved in these cases, we do not like that. Because, as has already been said here, these institutions are established, among others. to defend civil rights in accordance with the values which have been adopted in the conventions signed by Poland. If we are asking whether Prime Minister Szydło had the right not to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, and we do not get an answer, we do not like it. Because we want to know what's legal and constitutional for the Ombudsman and what's not. Finally, as far as I'm concerned... There's already a case here. The senator's assessment also referred to her predecessors. I have to say, I didn't like it. You told the senator that there were a lot of spokesmen, but they didn't do anything, etc., etc. I remember all the spokespersons and, frankly, in any case, I had a lot of appreciation for their hard work. Perhaps some of the things the senator used to come in there with, they didn't, I don't know, maybe right, maybe wrong, it's hard to say. But you have to remember, too. And that's what Senator Pociej was talking about here. In situations where, in this Chamber, we have demanded more resources for the Ombudsman to be able to achieve these objectives, unfortunately, we have not heard the senator's voice. And by the way, I also want to correct a certain thing. Namely, Senator Koc asked here about cases of emergency complaint, suggesting... why the spokesperson made so few of these emergency complaints, because of the 8,000 reported only a few dozen, and whether it does not indicate any defect etc. Yeah, it's a sign of a flaw they're permanently putting into this system of government. I mean, he didn't get the money. I want to remind you, because maybe you no longer remember that emergency complaints also affect the prosecution. There's more to the D.A.'s office. And the D.A.'s office sent to the Supreme Court about 3% of all the emergency complaints that were filed there. Why? Because he doesn't think they're just right. But the D.A.'s office was able to rewrite it because she had a whole camera for it. And the ombudsman who begged for extra money here because he just got an emergency complaint, and he wanted to do it, he didn't get it. He just couldn't even consider them. I would therefore suggest with greater humility, with greater respect to the predecessors. By the way... The senator spoke here about housing cooperativeism and the 2017 Act, which, I understand, was adopted on the initiative of the senator. I'm talking about art here in particular. The 4 that was introduced there. And just now, I don't know, today, yesterday, the Constitutional Court, the current Constitutional Court has deleted this provision. He found it unconstitutional. So it is not that from the very fact that we are very involved in ordinary people's affairs, we are always right. Well, sometimes we don't. And you also need to... You can disagree with court decisions, that's what appeals are for. But there's a court order at the end. And attacking the courts on the principle that you don't know who's sitting there and what he's doing, and who's affecting such a judge, and who's inspiring him, that's the easy way to anarchy. So if we're talking about a lot of senators here, Well, I'm not prejudicing the outcome, unlike Senator Kaminski. A significant part of the senators do not want to vote for the senator, it is precisely for these reasons that the separation of political and economic rights is absolutely wrong, that the lack of a position on many matters today and the response of the person concerned will come to me, that I will consider, even though it is obvious, it is also unacceptable. Bartłomiej Wróblewski was mentioned here, perhaps less about Mr. Wawrzyk, who was more economical in words. I would like to say that as far as Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski is concerned, at least he answered all these questions, all these political questions. He answered in an unsatisfactory way and we voted against, but he answered. And the senator was ducking, treating everything as a policy you're not called to. It's all politics, Senator. You are a politician, and as an ombudsman, you will pursue a policy, except that it must be in the interests of the citizen fully and not only partially. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u192	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Jerzy Wisła and Tadeusz Kopeć have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote will be held after a short break. Dismissed until 1:35 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 22 to 13 minutes 37]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u193	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen, as more than 30 people vote remotely, we will hold a test vote. There'll be a test vote first. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Therefore, in this first vote, please cast any vote. It's just a test vote to see if anyone's having trouble communicating. Please cast any vote. [[Voice in the courtroom: Just in case.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Voice from the room: So it doesn't get stuck.]] I'm asking you to give me the result... [[Voting No 8]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, 217...]] What, 217? [[Voice from the room: Room 217 and...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: In two systems Senator Komorowski...]] Well, here we go. Mr. Senator Komorowski, we remind you that you vote either directly, personally or remotely. You can't do it twice. [[The voice from the hall: Yeah, but he voted...]] [[Voice from the room: We need to check the cards...]] [[Voice from the hall: Isn't the card inserted downstairs.]] Or what? [[Voice from the room: Is the card not inserted. I'll check it out. Half a minute.]] As you can see, my intuition didn't confuse me. Half a minute for techs, I.T.s. [[A voice from the hall: Then let this be the outcome, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: It can be a card inserted and someone clicked.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There were crazy cards. We're not gonna use names. How do I put this... I greet the Minister, but I understand that everyone has their cards. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Do we have any more signals? I'm gonna need maintenance... Do we have any signals about other problems, or do we consider problems to be solved? Good. Thank you very much. So we are now going to take a real vote. The vote concerns consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. We are voting on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Lydia Staron as Ombudsman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted. 45 for, 51 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate did not agree to the appointment of Mrs Lydia Staron as Ombudsman. Thank you, Senator Lydia Staroń, for taking part in this item. The rest of the votes will be held at 2:00 p.m. I'm declaring a recess until 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 43 to 14 minutes 03]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 21, 22 and 23 July 2021. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: third reading of the draft law amending the Law on investment in wind power plants. The second reading of this project took place at the 25th Senate meeting on 10 June 2021. Following the discussion, the Senate referred the draft law to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the matter. It is available in print No 366 X. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees decided at an additional meeting to withdraw all the amendments tabled... The project was adopted in its original form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u195	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator, as an applicant, still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, the project we will be voting on is a project that restores farmers to the right to build their own economic buildings and housing at a shorter distance from energy infrastructure. This is in line with the expectations of thousands of Polish farmers whose right to own the existing rules was limited in 2016. As we learned at the committee meeting, this was not preceded by any in-depth analysis and research by the Deputy Minister representing the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u197	At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. As I understand it, there are no such questions... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Excuse me, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u198	I have a specific question for Senator Kwiatkowski. Because, as I understand it, there was no reply or presentation of the material that the government representative had committed to during the previous meeting of our committee. But wasn't it better to wait for these additional expertise? The point is that we should be fully clear, because this topic, however, creates certain social emotions, acting in two directions. So just so we're clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u199	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u200	I agree that when the government does not provide documents to which it has committed itself, it is very emotional. For my part, I was also surprised by this situation. That is why we have limited the project only to matters related to the exercise of our own ownership, and we have waived amendments that would make it easier to develop renewable energy on land, because other regulations concern marine areas. And I would like to publicly declare that I hope that the Senate will come up with a legislative initiative that will affect this area as well, but before that, it will prepare appropriate analyses. I hope that also in agreement with the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u201	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski withdrew his conclusions in paragraphs 1 and 2 of print No 366 X. Do any of you wish to uphold these withdrawn requests? I take it you didn't. The amendments have not been maintained. We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption by the committees of the draft law amending the Law on investment in wind power plants and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 366 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 42 against, six senators abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on investments in wind power plants and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 427. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a proposal from the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. The committee meeting took place on 16 June. The Commission adopted the draft resolution, which I am about to present, unanimously. This resolution decided to remove Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz from the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and Senator Richard Majer from the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. At the same time, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz was elected to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u203	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 399 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. We would like to return to the discussion of item five of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 417 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. I got a signal about the club agreement that Amendments 1 and 5 could all be voted out in one block. If this information is sustained, we will. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Good. We are voting block-by-block on Amendment No 1. Who's in favor of them? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 403 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u204	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to inform the High House that the committee has gathered to consider the amendments this morning at 9 a.m. As a result of its deliberations, it proposes amendments 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 30 to vote in total. These are very important amendments, which finally give businesses the right to appeal against possible negative decisions in their cases. They've been accepted. Amendment 4, delete, was accepted. I would like to inform you that Amendments 5 and 27 have been withdrawn by the applicant. Amendment 6 achieved the result of 6:6, a very important amendment which abolishes the date criterion as a formal criterion to benefit from the benefits of this law. It is worthy of support. Amendments 7, 8, 15, 17 and 20 are also proposed by the committee to vote jointly. These are important amendments that support entrepreneurs running school shops. Amendments 18 and 19 are editorial amendments and have also been supported. Amendment 21 was withdrawn by the applicants. As far as amendments 22, 24 and 31 are concerned, this is also a proposal. to vote on them together. [[Mr. Senator, I'm gonna say it, I'm gonna say it in the vote.]] Okay. Amendments 23 and 25 withdrawn, No 26 accepted. And here's the important information. They were very similar, almost identical amendments 28 and 29. We felt that Amendment 28 was better suited to the intentions, so Amendment 29 was withdrawn by the applicant and supported by Amendment 28. And that's the commission's recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ad vocem on this speech?]] In a second, because I have to ask whether the senators of the applicant want to speak again. Szejnfeld, Bury, Kwiatkowski, Piech and Klein have submitted their conclusions. No. Now the senator can ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u206	Mr Marshal, this is about Amendment 6, because the Senator rapporteur wanted to say that she had achieved a tie at the committee meeting, and then said that she was worthy of support. As rapporteur, he seems to have come out of his role a little bit, encouraging us to support an amendment which the committee does not recommend. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u207	Mr. Senator, in a matter of seconds, the Senate will decide this in its collective wisdom. So let's skip the distractions. I would like to inform you that the following applicants have withdrawn their applications: Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski Amendments 21, 23 and 25, Senator Jacek Bury Amendment Nos 5 and 27, gentlemen Senators Kwiatkowski and Szejnfeld Amendment No 29. Does anyone want to uphold these conclusions? As I understand it, no. Since Senator Szejnfeld has discussed the amendments quite thoroughly, if you don't mind, I will only read the numbers of the amendments. Attention, first of all, we are voting on the amendments tabled and then adopting a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Note that amendments 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 30 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Attention, Amendments 5 and 27 are withdrawn. Amendment 6 will only be voted on if Amendments 5 and 27 are rejected, but since those amendments are withdrawn, we must adopt this amendment. Which Senator Locksmith stressed in his commentary Vote. Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] Attention, amendments 7, 8, 15, 17 and 20 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 44 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, ninety-six in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 21 is withdrawn. Amendments 22, 24 and 31 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Rotnicka... Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 23 is withdrawn and No 25 is withdrawn. Amendment 26. Please, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 27 is withdrawn. Amendment 28. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure took place during the discussion and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 415 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee. [[Do you mind if I take a seat?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u208	At yesterday's meeting, both committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure discussed this law. Five amendments were tabled, but the committee recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that the senators Tadeusz Kopeć and Jacek Bury have submitted their conclusions. They don't want to. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 407 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, please accept the proposals set out in point 1 of Section II. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the joint committees did not accept the proposal for a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u211	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, Senators Wojciech Piecha, Adam Szejnfeld, Jacek Bury, Kazimierz Klein presented their conclusions. In addition, the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was Senator Wojciech Piecha. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Wojciech Piecha's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] I have received a signal that we can vote block-by-block on the amendments at this point. If the clubs maintain this request, we will. Therefore, as I do not hear any objection, I am voting on Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] We will now proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the rejection of this law; Senate printing No 398 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee on the rejection of the law. Who's in favor of rejecting the bill? Who's against it? [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: There is no signal in room 217, the device is not working...]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: There she is. Thank you.]] Good. Vote. I can see by the numbers that the vote is really on. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 48 against, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] The project didn't get the majority. [[Head of the Senate Office Adam Niemczewski: Once again it is necessary to reject the bill...]] Yes. In the event of rejection of the application contained in print No 398, we shall proceed in accordance with Article. 54 (1) (a) 1a The Senate's Rules of Procedure to vote on the motion to reject the bill... No... [[Voices from the room: No.]] No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the event of rejection of an application for rejection... Return: We proceed with the rejection of the bill to... [[Voice from the room: No, no, it was good.]] What are you telling me? [[Head of Senate Office Adam Niemczewski: If you don't mind...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, in the absence of a resolution, we are voting on the motion for rejection, once again, and then...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll remind you of the letter of the rules. In the case of... I've read it well, I've made a suggestion. In the event that all proposals or amendments submitted to the Act are rejected or the resolution on the Act is not adopted in full, the Marshal shall put to the vote a motion for rejection of the Act and, in the event of failure to accept this proposal, a proposal for the Act without amendments. That's what art sounds like. 54 (1) (a) 1a. Therefore, in view of the rejection of the application contained in print No 398, we proceed, in accordance with Article. 54 (1) (a) 1a of the Senate Rules of Procedure, to vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Counselor, please give us an interpretation. Or you, Minister... I'm holding the vote for now. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Excuse me, I have information that Senator Fedorowicz has problems with the connection.]] The vote is now adjourned. We ask you to interpret the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, Art. 54 (1) (a) 1a, mentioned by the marshal, is clear. The State has not adopted a resolution on the law in its entirety, and the Marshal therefore puts to the vote a motion to reject the law. There's no other choice. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, so what did we vote on just now?]] [[Voice from the room: But...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But what did we vote on just now, Mr. Counselor?]] [[Voice from the room: There was a motion for rejection.]] [[Voice from the room: Yeah, that's right.]] And you've accepted the amendments... [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: There was no...]] No corrections? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Please check...]] [[Voice from the room: Accepting in full without amendments...]] [[Voice from the room: The conclusion was only one.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to see your article, please. 54 (1) (a) 1a is clear. In case of rejection of all applications submitted to the bill... [[Voice from the room: There were none.]] There was a conclusion...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u213	Mrs. Senator, please take it easy... There was a motion to reject the bill, the only one. He was rejected because he didn't get the majority. And now... Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u214	We rejected that motion. If all applications are rejected, this is the case The Marshal shall put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. It's about some automation, so the Senate can take a stand on this. [[Voice from the room: Twice the same?]] Sometimes it's going to be two times the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, there was a conflict of interest because of the fact that there was one request. If there were a few of them, we would still vote against the bill in its entirety. But the wording of this article is quite clear. So I'm reading... I'd like your attention, please. In the face of the rejection of the proposal, we are voting on the motion to reject the entire law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 400 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Also in the case of this law, I came to the voice that there is agreement to vote on all amendments by block. If this proposal is sustained, we shall proceed with the joint vote on Amendments 1 and 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police intended products and technology. We are returning to the 11th agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments Senator's printing No 401 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 406 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Paul Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have examined the proposals submitted and recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Jacek Bury or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? No. In addition, the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was Senator Robert Mammothov. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One more second, one senator sitting remotely... Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 were in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 402 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u218	Mind if I take a moment, Mr. Marshal? [[You're welcome.]] The Commission recommends the adoption of all amendments and the adoption of the amendment law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. As an applicant, do you still want to speak? Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 concerns the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendments 2 and 4 should be voted on together. If you don't mind, I won't be reading the justification. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 3 also aims to introduce legislation that is in line with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Senators, please draw your attention... Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely, please pay attention to whether the signal is being transmitted. Please state the results of the vote. Sometimes the remote signal goes a little longer. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] After voting on all the amendments, we proceed to vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Act on the Education System and the Act on the Financing of Educational Tasks. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 416 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u220	6 votes in favour, 4 against, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport recommends that the High House reject the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u221	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak again? It was Senator Margaret Kopiczko. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Education System and the Act on the Financing of Educational Tasks. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the law on changing the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences to them. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presents a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print number 408 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. We are returning to the 16th agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 405 A and 405 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the inclusion of a new group entitled to the funeral allowance. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print no. 380 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Joanna Sekula to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committees to amend certain laws in connection with the right to the funeral allowance of the new group entitled and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the inclusion of a new group entitled to the funeral allowance and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on Polish Tourist Bone. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No 394 S. The Commission also proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on the amendment of the Polish Tourist Bone Act and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 54 votes against, no one opposed, 43 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a bill amending the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft Act on Occupational Diseases caused by COVID-19 in persons engaged in medical professions. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 363 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft Act on Occupational Diseases caused by COVID-19 presented by the committees in the professions in the health care system and on the draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Comfort? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes against, 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on occupational diseases caused by COVID-19 in professionals in the health care system and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We therefore proceed with the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 357 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committees on the amendment of the grant law for certain entities and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Lover? [[I thought I voted.]] Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the grant law for certain entities and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Electronic Service. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 425 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 4 against, 42 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Electronic Service. We would like to return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Access to and Protection of Environmental Information, Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Environmental Impact Assessments. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 426 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 51 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the twenty-sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I would like to inform you that the declarations made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the report. Please draw up a list that... oh, here it is. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski speaking. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the Minister of Climate and Environment and it concerns the supervision of the functioning of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. After the change of law, after the change of law in the previous term, they are still local legal persons, but power in these institutions Thus, in supervisory boards and management boards, the government is de facto appointed by delegation of its representatives to supervisory boards and later to the management boards of those funds. And today the legal situation is something like that, even though Okay, I'll do it again. They are self-government legal entities, their activities are controlled by de facto government, I understand that in this case it is the Minister of Climate and Environment. So I'd like to know. And I'm asking for that information. What is the average salary today in 16 different voivodship environmental funds. What is the remuneration of the members of the board of directors of these funds? I would also like to draw attention to the mismanagement in one of the funds, in the Regional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Szczecin. This institution has property in Koszalin, a former office, the former headquarters of the branch of the fund. For several years this building has been empty, nothing is happening there, there is no idea of what to do with it, it is destroying, and there are costs associated with the maintenance of this facility. I propose that the Minister take a look at this matter through his delegated representatives to the Supervisory Board or to the Delegated Representatives, for example. by voivode After all, it's also part of the government administration. In order to ensure that they take appropriate action on this matter, and if they do not have an idea for themselves, they will transfer this facility to Koszalin, even for the benefit of Koszalin. I am convinced that the city of Koszalin will know how to manage this property. That was my first statement. The second, Mr Marshal, is a request to you, and it concerns time for government representatives to respond to specific statements. It takes ministers months to meet me myself. In normal administrative proceedings, a reply shall be given without delay within a period of not more than 30 days. I imagine that some information needs to be collected by the competent officials, but it is simply unacceptable to respond to a statement that takes months to give them. I would therefore ask, firstly, for an analysis of how much it takes for individual ministers to respond to senators' statements, secondly, to examine the actions of the Senate administration on this matter. Because it's just unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-18-senat-26-3.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you so ad hoc that Marshal Morawska-Stanecka, who is responsible for pressing ministers, is doing her work extremely well. We send urgent letters on statements. But the request for an analysis of the delays of ministers who are most guilty or not aware of the concept of time... I'm gonna need an office to draw up something like this. Nevertheless, what we can do will, of course, try to do. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The twenty-sixth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 10]]
