ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Health at about an hour. 9, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 10, - The Territorial Government and Regional Policy together with the Committee on Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - also at hours. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - also at 3 p.m. 11, - Health at about an hour. 11, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 14, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 14.15. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - at 3 p.m. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Women's Sports - at 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Family Farm Development - at 3 p.m. 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity of Witold Pilecki and some other laws, print No 1386. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions. Questions on current issues begin with questions from Members of Jan Warzecha and Zbigniew Chmielowiec from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the effectiveness of the implementation of the programme My water in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment, and will be answered by Minister Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I ask Mr Jan Warzech to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! At the beginning of June 2020, my water programme was announced to protect water resources. Domestic rainwater tanks take over from roofs and gutters and sidewalks rainwater and melting water. The eligible costs in the second call consisted of the purchase, delivery, assembly, construction and commissioning of the installation. The benefits of the scheme are primarily the availability of water during periods of drought, as the installation reduces watering costs almost to zero. This results in keeping grass, shrubs and trees in gardens in good condition, but also reduces the sinking in heavy rains. The beneficiaries of the scheme, my water, by collecting good water for plants in tanks, reduce the fees for water and sewage. This is why the programme, with funding, enjoys a large and growing interest. Last year's call was received by over 25,000. applications from beneficiaries. Minister! I'm asking you to answer a few questions. How is the support currently presented, the funding from my water programme? How many households benefited from funding in Poland and Podkarpackie Voivodship? How does the Minister assess the effectiveness of the implementation of my water programme in Poland so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u4	You're welcome, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u5	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen! In fact, the aim of this programme, which was launched in 2020 in the first round - because today we are already after the second edition - is to protect water resources and minimise drought in Poland by increasing retention levels in the premises, single-family housing, as well as the reasonable use of collected rainwater or melt water. Our strategic objective is to increase the level of protection against the effects of climate change, which you have been talking about, that today we are increasingly seeing violent phenomena, including heavy rains in many cities in Poland, for various reasons, although most often due to earlier decisions to abandon large green spaces, i.e. from areas that are permeable, for an increased amount of concrete. Very often there is a situation that networks are not able to receive such a large amount of water and there are local flooding or direct urban flooding. So any action that limits the rapid flow of water or stops these rainwaters is the right action, the desired action we want and which we support. Referring directly to the question of how current support is presented, I answer that the second call for funding has ended. He ended on June 10th. The budget, as in the first call, was PLN 100 million. Each investment can be financed in the form of grants up to 80% of eligible costs but not more than 5 000. zł. The amount of co-financing in the applications submitted exceeds the budget. Currently, the proposals are still accepted, these paper ones arrive, and they are analysed by voivodship's environmental and water management funds, but both the first and second edition of the programme, during which the allocation of funds was exhausted in the first 2 and 3 months, shows that there is great interest and the program is expected and appreciated by Poles. On the question of how many households benefited from funding in Poland - here is the clarification that it is specifically about the war. Podkarpackie - I reply that in the first selection of the program almost 25 thousand were received. applications for a total amount of nearly PLN 115 million. In the second round, i.e. the situation on July 7th, so far a total of over 27 thousand have been received. applications for an amount that is close to PLN 130 million. Nearly 9 thousand have already been co-financed as part of the current recruitment process. beneficiaries of PLN 41.5 million, but as I said, the verification of applications has not yet been completed, they are still flowing. About the war. Podkarpackie, last year's board of directors of the fund provided funding for the amount of 9400 thousand. PLN after considering nearly 2 thousand. grant applications. The beneficiaries of this selection carry out investments, and so far almost PLN 3 million have been paid out on nearly 630 completed investments. However, in the current recruitment, according to the state of 7 July, more than 2 000 have been received by the Regional Environmental Protection Fund in Rzeszów. applications for nearly 10 million grants in total. The funds have already been paid out under 222 applications and the amount of funding exceeds PLN 1 million. How do we evaluate effectiveness? As I said, we were very surprised by the response and determination of citizens to benefit from this programme. The first months of operation and the first, and second editions have actually exhausted the funding for these calls. We assume that the implementation of the first and second recruitment will allow us to keep about 1 million m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u7	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As the Minister here has rightly pointed out, climate change, which is taking place in our country, has recently caused water shortages during the heat in many municipalities. It has been called for savings and my water is certainly contributing in some way, but 1/3 in relation to the European average is indeed not enough and shows how good the programme was. Hence my questions: When can we expect another edition of the program and on what scale? Does the government plan to increase the resources allocated to the programme in order to improve its administrative service and dynamically increase home installations? Whether by the next edition the government will be able to amend the Construction Law, excluding the need to obtain a building permit for rain-free tanks or melt water with a capacity of up to 10 m3. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u8	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. We are interested in your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In fact, here we agree that a great deal of interest mobilizes us to not end up in the first and second editions, but to think about the next ones. However, before we make this decision, we must complete our second recruitment. Like I said, we're still in the process of verifying the applications, and they're still coming down to us. So, despite the fact that on June 10, the recruitment ended, we are still, as it were, in the process. Are we planning to increase our resources? I think that - as in the first and second edition - the residents showed us that there is a great need to use it, so we will definitely think about it. On the other hand, on the issue of possible changes and improvements, decisions will be taken as soon as we have completed the verification of the proposals and we will know where and what may be the result of any delays or difficulties. Then we will think about concrete improvements. I assume that we will be able to run the next editions, because this is a fairly simple way to collect water, which is just running away every day, and it's a pity. I will refer to the question about the construction law which excludes the need to obtain a permit for the construction of waste water tanks. We saw this ambiguity of interpretation of the provisions of the Law - Construction Law in obtaining building permits. Bearing in mind the key role of these facilities in supporting so-called. small retention, including the development of home installations for rainwater, we have introduced into the draft law on investment in combating the effects of drought - this is a draft law, which in the list of legislative works is under UD101 - the amendment of the Construction Law, which explicitly excludes the construction of rain-free tanks or water melters with a capacity of up to 10 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Members. Let's move on to question two. Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska and Mrs Monika Wielichnowska and Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition wanted to ask a question about the criteria for granting land from the Patriotic Fund and the justification for the decision to finance with it extremely radical organizations. This question is addressed to the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, and will be answered by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport by Minister Jarosław Sellin. And I'm gonna let you give me some private attention. Incidentally, Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska has always been a Member, and we, Minister, have been at the National Radio and Television Council and the three of us in the culture committee many years ago have been searching for the truth. I don't think she's been found by now. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Not found.]] I remember the fights. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. You're welcome. The question needs to be asked, Member. [[Voice from the room: On?]] Yes. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: Card.]] [[Voice from the room: The card must be inserted.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I have one comment: my name is Wielichowska.]] You know, I'm really sorry, ma'am, I just missed out because I know your name is Wielichowska. [[Great.]] Sometimes I'll just make a mistake. But I'm sorry. It's never gonna happen to me again. [[We're on a straight path.]] Although years fly and it can happen. But of course I'm sorry. [[That's why we can make comments.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, not land, just grants.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You know, Minister, I don't know if you guys in this cultural department are giving out land or grants. One letter in all, what difference does it make? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u11	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I'm sorry, but I'm actually using a new device to ask questions for the first time. I've mastered the vote. As it turns out, there is something else. Minister. In March of this year... [[Now it's time. Again.]] It's not good in culture with this technique. Seriously, don't worry about it. We learn more in front of you than you do in front of us. It's true, you have to learn your whole life, as the classic says, so I'm trying too. In March this year, the Patriotic Fund was set up on the initiative of Prime Minister Morawiecki and Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński. I would like to start by asking: Is this really the most appropriate form of search or instigation of patriotism among the nation and society? But apparently that's the idea of a separate fund. It was quite curious. It was explained in June this year when the first grants were granted from this fund. Well, surprisingly, these first grants came to the organization of quite ideologically homogeneous, so I would say. And unfortunately, the idea which they cultivate may be connected with patriotism, but with extreme patriotism and foreign patriotism of the Polish tradition. Well, these grants went to an organization called the National Guard, these grants went to some of the organisers of the Independence March, these grants went to commemorate the anniversary of the Youth of All Poland (The Bell), and these are millions of zlotys. Hence my question: Is this really government policy? And is this the way the government sees patriotism in supporting extremely radical organizations that exist, even though some of them maybe should be delegated, organisations that do not help the good name of our homeland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u12	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. Minister Jarosław Sellin, Secretary of State of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u13	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers, I answer precisely the question about the criteria for granting grants from the Patriotic Fund, the fund that the National Thought Heritage Institute has. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski. In accordance with the rules of the Patriotic Fund competition, each of the projects which were notified during the recruitment period was subject to a substantive assessment by experts. The experts included people with high competence and experience in the implementation of cultural projects. Each application was subject to several stages of verification. The projects were assessed in the first place for the existence of formal errors and then addressed to the substantive assessment. During the substantive evaluation, each of the proposals was independently assessed by two experts. Each project was assessed individually, which means that none of the experts knew the other. In accordance with the Fund's rules of procedure, where individual tasks received such a divergent assessment, more than 30% of the difference between the two assessments, the application was addressed to the third expert. In this situation, the sum of the evaluation of the determining expert and the highest of the two previous evaluations was decisive in the final classification of the projects. On the basis of expert assessments, the Institute has prepared ranking lists of the best rated projects. Final evaluations and lists of co-financing projects were selected during the so-called meetings. a panel of experts. In the event of a decision not to be taken by the panel members in accordance with the rules of procedure, the final decision to grant the grant was the responsibility of the Director of the National Thought Heritage Institute. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski. According to § The first priority of the Patriotic Fund's Rules of Procedure was to assess the coherence and originality of the concept of the task, the form of transmission, professionalism and experience of those involved in the realization of the task and the exploitation of cultural potential, local ties and relations with other communities. An important indicator was also the creation of the conditions for developing creative activity and for shaping open attitudes in society, as well as the reality of the timetable presented. The second important criteria were, among others, the priority criteria. the appropriateness of planned expenditure in relation to the results and scope of the actions covered by the proposal, the adequacy of the proposal in relation to the objectives of the Fund, the complexity and consistency of the concept, the clearly defined objectives and expected benefits of the task and the impact of purchasing equipment on the expansion and attractiveness of the cultural offer and the implementation of modern technologies. The funds from the Patriotic Fund received 160 entities from all over Poland, including e.g. rural hostels, local cultural units, local reconstructive groups, numerous associations referring to the Christian-national heritage. The grants received will be devoted to various projects promoting the history and national heritage of our homeland and initiatives shaping patriotic and civic attitudes. This is an area that has not been financed by public institutions so far, and small organisations promoting Polish history and culture are often kept out of modest own resources. We wanted to meet the needs and reward those who contribute to the preservation of memory and the promotion of cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u14	Thank you very much. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u15	That's all the Minister said about it, it looks beautiful in the records, but when we start looking closer to it, it turns out it's not all so transparent. Because, in fact, are all the experts acting under their own name able to say that they supported individual projects and solutions? Why, for example? Most of the organisations that have received the most funds are very close to Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Ziobra or Minister Czarnek? And I'd also like to ask you this, because it says here that it's about patriotic action and it's about making it more popular. So how high was throwing flares on the balconies of Warsaw's inhabitants during the March of Independence scored? It seems to me that saying that these are activities that promote patriotism, and we know what these marches look like, is encouraging this kind of action. However, from the Minister of Culture, who should, of course, promote good patriotic patterns, I would like to set clear and clear rules, which should not be promoted (The Bell) and which is not acceptable, which should not be the case. And I didn't hear that in the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u17	I have prepared to answer the question about the criteria for granting these grants. On the other hand, these specific questions that you are now making... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Yeah, me too.]] ...these are questions to the director of the National Thought Heritage Institute. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski, prof. Jan Żaryn, former senator. [[Member of Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: appointed by Minister of Gliński.]] However, as I say, among 160 organizations, some particular irritation caused a subsidy to two organisations. I think that in the case of the first country, two organisations are confused, but this is for checking which have a similar name. On the other hand, in the case of the Independence March there are of course major controversys around this initiative, which is an initiative of a clear political environment, which sits in the Polish Parliament and has a political mandate given by part of the Polish society. I have not heard that under these grants some illegal, illegal or illegal organization will receive a grant. If you have evidence that one of these organizations is acting contrary to Polish law or to the Polish values contained in the Constitution, then you must go to the prosecution, make such a request, lead to the ban of this organisation and take such action. [[Voice from the room: Fold.]] [[It's been complex a few times.]] On the other hand, everything else is simply an insinuation. I will read a part of the statement on the media storm that exploded in this case, in relation to some of the beneficiaries of the Patriotic Fund, which Prof. Jan Żaryn wrote. [[Called by Minister Glinski.]] The information in the media on funding from the Patriotic Fund for radical organisations is false and misleading to the public. According to Art. 13 constitutions in Poland do not have legally functioning fascist organizations, because unfortunately such wordings appeared in some mouths. The organizations cited in the texts refer to the tradition of the Polish national movement, on which the contemporary patriotism of Poles is largely based. Contrary to what the authors of the texts write, no organization resorting to criminal ideologies prohibited by Polish law applied for funds from the Patriotic Fund. Otherwise, it would be illegal organisations. The funds allocated under the Patriotic Fund are intended for various projects promoting the history and national heritage of our homeland and initiatives shaping patriotic and civic attitudes. Please do not duplicate false information that indirectly hits all beneficiaries of the Patriotic Fund, all 160 entities that received such funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's not true. That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, this was an example of smart answers. [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Not an answer.]] [[Not an answer.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: No response.]] No one knows what's going on, but we're moving on. Ladies and gentlemen, Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszak, Tadeusz Chrzan, Mieczysław Baszko and Waldemar Andzel from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about specialist advice without a limit of the Minister of Health. On behalf of the Minister of Health, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health is Mr Sławomir Gadomski. I ask Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u19	Thank you, Marshal. Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Specialized clinics play an important role in outpatient care. Patients are referred to them by their family doctor for diagnosis, diagnosis and treatment. The certificates given in these clinics are the basis for further treatment of patients diagnosed by family doctors. Since 1 March 2020, the limits for primary advice have been abolished in four specialties: neurology, orthopedics, endocrinology and cardiology. As of 1 July 2021, no limits have been imposed on doctors in outpatient care and in certain cardiac network benefits. Specialized advice, which is funded by the NFZ in a roar, is more than 580 throughout the country, they can accept any patient from 1 July. The benefits will be paid in full for them. Please answer the questions: What benefits apply to unlimited advice? What amount is foreseen for the implementation of these benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u20	Thank you very much. Minister Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the question is up-to-date. As you have already pointed out in your questions, on 1 July, rules were introduced to determine the limitlessness of outpatient services in specialized care. This is the continuation of those activities that we actually started in 2019. Already then, on 1 April 2019 we decided that unlimited funding should be covered by computer tomography, magnetic resonance, performed in outpatient mode, and cataract removal and shortly thereafter endoprotesoplastics. This movement already showed that we were able to shorten the queues by introducing unlimited benefits. In each of these ranges the queues to a specialist or to perform imaging tests, as in this case, have been shortened after a year. I'm talking after a year, because it's known that we went into the year of pandemic and that situation and presenting queues today would obviously be disturbed. On 1 March 2020 we decided to introduce unlimited benefits, i.e. funding regardless of the degree of implementation, in those specialist clinics where access was most difficult, i.e. endocrinology, cardiology, neurology, orthopedics, and the same in children's areas. Unfortunately, on 1 March 2020, we were unable to see the effects of this action for understandable pandemic reasons. At the same time, since 1 January 2021, the Act of 7 October 2020 on the Medical Fund has already been in operation, in which we have introduced unlimited funding for children's benefits, child benefits, in all respects. I'm talking about hospital coverage and outpatient care. Now this movement, which is a full extension of access, the full limitlessness of financing outpatient care benefits, is definitely a post-pandemic movement. This is definitely a movement, which on the one hand is the result of catching up on a certain COVID gap, and which on the other hand found itself, as one of the most important changes in the area of health, in the Polish Lad, just so that the health situation stabilized, so that this health debt, in terms of health of Poles, could be repaid as soon as possible. As regards technical issues, or perhaps rather the most important ones - firstly, there are no additional restrictions on the operation of this unlimited funding. All doctors of all specialties mentioned in the field of: outpatient specialist care, apart from specialists of psychiatry and rehabilitation - these are distinct ranges. Party rules haven't changed. It still applies, with some exceptions, to the doctor's health insurance. These exceptions are e.g. an oncology clinic where you don't need this referral. But, as a rule, it still works. What is important, the limit has been removed from the entire field of expertise. Not just advice. When it comes to such procedures performed in outpatient care, e.g. endoscopy, colonoscopy, gastroscopy - there is also no limit on admissions, no limit on funding. This is also important because we know that these treatments are often early diagnostics in cancer, so we wanted these issues to be extended. Of course, this is not a full catalogue of activities that we intend to implement in the field of outpatient specialist care. We are very interested in translating the accent from hospital benefits to outpatient care. These benefits are often available faster, are systemically cheaper and more efficient. This is why, as from 2019 onwards, this has also entered into force since 2020, we have significantly increased the valuation of outpatient specialist care, especially in the field of first-time benefits. But we still see the need and the need to change these valuations, and we will continue to do so. You asked me what funds we would like to use to finance unlimited benefits. This respect is very difficult, is, I think, extremely difficult, given the history of the pandemic, and generally assumptions related to shortening queues. Today we estimate that it is over PLN 400 million. This is reflected in the financial plan, which is currently, let's call it, in the parliamentary circulation, the Committee on Public Finances focused on it, and I think the Health Committee is now in session on the National Health Fund plan. This amount, on the other hand, is respectful, and here we have collateral on the side, whether it's a reserve fund in the National Health Fund, whether it's a general reserve. If there are more of these benefits (the bell) their volume of implementation will be higher, then we have secured funds to finance it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u22	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Chrzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The abolition of the limit in specialists is one of the elements of the Polish Order, a new socio-economic program, as the Minister said, for the post-COVID period. I am convinced that the abolition of the limits is intended to reduce queues and, in my expectation, to eliminate these queues. Therefore, my additional question: Minister, do you have a diagnosis of which specialist clinics are waiting the longest, i.e. in which segments of these clinics are the longest queues? And one more question: If these queues are very long, do you predict in the Ministry an increase in the number of clinics that will carry out contracts with the NFZ, i.e. which will actually be financed from the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u24	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u25	Mr. Speaker! Obviously, by introducing unlimited benefits, we will be considering extending access. I'm not saying clearly that we're going to expand it and that we're already running the competition procedures, because we can't curse reality a little. We know very well that we live in a world of limited resources, above all human resources. We're working to change this situation. We're successfully increasing admission limits for college. The regulation of the Minister of Health is currently being examined, in which the next year we increase admission limits for medical and dental studies by more than 650 places. That's quite a lot, that's almost 8% of that potential, that volume. And we've been pursuing this policy for several years now. However, of course, the directors of the voivodships of the National Health Fund are to look at the possibilities to contract, increase access to outpatient specialized care. If the potential, and the needs will be so, then - after, let's call it, the initial period of 2 and 3 months, so that we can see what the realization looks like - we're going to be thinking about enlargement. As I said, there are also secure funds in the National Health Fund. As for where these queues were the longest - these are, above all, the ranges that I talked about earlier and in which we already introduced unlimited benefits last year, just before the pandemic. These are primarily these four ranges, these four specialist clinics, where access was most difficult - endocrinology, cardiology, neurology, orthopedics. These are also children's ranges - in particular endocrinology and children's cardiology are such clinics where access was difficult. As I said, in children's areas, unlimited financing of all benefits has been operational since the beginning of this year, since 1 January 2021. I am convinced that, after a 12-month period, we will be able to assess the effects of pediatrics at the end of this year. I think that this will probably occur at the earliest after 8 and 12 months in terms of unlimited access to benefits, which we have introduced since 1 July. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u26	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Marek Polak, Frederick Kapinos, Kazimierz Chom and Teresa Pamuła from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the program This question will be addressed by Minister Gadomski, who is with us. Please, Mr Marek Polak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u27	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 1 July this year As part of the Polish Load, the program started with the program "Prophylaxis of 40+..." which assumes the implementation of a package of basic diagnostic tests for all Poles after 40 years of age. It aims to rebuild public health weakened, among others. during the pandemic of Coronavirus. According to estimates, about 20 million Poles can benefit from the programme. A large number of notifications were recorded on the first day. I am afraid that not all interested may know about the existence of such health facilities, so I would like to ask the Minister how the government evaluates the level of social interest in this programme. Is there an information campaign to promote it? Thank you very much. [[The rest of the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u28	Please, Mr Frederick Kapinos.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u29	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Undoubtedly, a program such as the 40+-prophylaxis was needed and expected from both patients and health care. During the pandemic, the vast majority of the forces of the health system were directed towards the fight against COVID-19. For this reason it was difficult to diagnose other diseases, which can unfortunately have negative consequences for the health of Poles in the future. The programme "Prophylactics 40+" is a consistent fulfillment of the promises which Law and Justice made to Poles within the framework of the Polish Order and fits perfectly into the whole process of improving the situation in health care. Minister, I would like to ask: What exactly will be the diagnostic tests that can be carried out in the framework of the 40+ programme? How can you do that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want to apply for this kind of research? Where will they be performed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u30	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the program "Prophylactics 40+" as well as unlimited benefits, which I was just talking about, was introduced within the framework of the Polish Load and started from 1 July this year. It must be borne in mind that the purpose of this programme, namely to increase the emphasis placed on prevention, has been guiding us for a long time. The 40+ program we wanted de facto, colloquially speaking, to launch much earlier. We were still working on it with Minister Łukasz Szumowski, but this work was interrupted by a pandemic. Indeed, this programme is another element in the coverage of the health gap caused by the pandemic in terms of prevention. The effects of the pandemic are very clear. Access to preventive studies, especially in the early stages of the pandemic, was clearly difficult. Often it was invasive tests, such as colonoscopy or gastroscopy. For a period of about 2 months, they did not function. For example, mammobuses, so prevention actually suffered quite badly. We also know that in terms of availability to the doctor of POZ significant problems were also indicated, and in fact in his competence and area of responsibility is to conduct an active prevention policy when it comes to patients he is caring for. The program started on July 1st. The interest in the program in the first days, you can say, was relatively large. So far, i.e. until July 7th, in less than a week 66,000. people completed a preventive survey. The preventive survey is mandatory when it comes to entering the program. Answering this second question immediately, I will say that it can be filled primarily through the patient's online account or through the National Health Fund helpline, where an expert of home health care will conduct the person concerned by the survey. By July 7, more than 500 developers signed up for the program. Currently, another 120 applications are being examined. It is also worth pointing out that among 500 reported and 120 potential developers there are often entities with multiple diagnostic points, so this number may be, I do not want to say that multiplied, but much higher than approx. 620 entities. What is important, I agree absolutely with you that we have a vacation period, so when it comes to caring for our own health, it is quite difficult. Everybody thinks about going away, everybody thinks about resting. That is why, and with these concerns that I share when it comes to interest, maintaining interest, launching communication activities, certain campaigns that we are going to pursue, we can say, from September and October. This will be primarily, perhaps starting with the most visible promotions of the program in the nationwide media. We are already starting with spot emissions in one of the television bands and in one radio band, while we are expanding and currently signing spot emissions agreements in other radio and television stations, which we want to implement in August-October. Obviously we will actively promote this program on the website of the Ministry of Health through certain communications, information in social media, in certain... I've lost track, too much. In a banner campaign on the Internet, which we also want to launch in a moment. I think that, importantly, we will reach people especially during the holiday period also through certain events, through events dedicated precisely to the 40+ programme, unlimited funding of benefits. It seems to us that this way of reaching outdoor, especially in larger cities, tourist destinations, is also a possibility to encourage Poles to join this program. As you have said, we would like the widest possible group of people to benefit from this. Of course, the maximum respect is probably 20 million Poles. We are prepared to face this challenge financially. We probably assume that this interest, especially now, in the first start-up period, may be smaller, but actually September-October, when more people think about their health and when we are able with those campaigns I have been talking about, to reach them, it should already be a period of full start of this program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it is also important to have the role of providers, programme developers. It's still very important. We also provided them with materials, a branding of this program, information materials for patients. So I am convinced that they will also be actively involved in creating this program and we will be able to encourage as many people as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u32	Thank you very much. It's time for the Polish Coalition. Members of Mirosław Maliszewski... [[But an additional question, Mr. Marshal.]] And there's gonna be an extra question, right? There's one more thing, okay? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome. So the coalition of Poland will have to wait. You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: But of course, it's time for us to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u33	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! As we all know, the second element of this program is the increase in the availability of specialist doctors. Tell me what it's gonna be like. How will the system work or mechanism that reduces waiting time for advice from a specialist doctor? In addition, the programme provides for a package of 6 to 12 diagnostic tests for each eligible patient. If the scale of the patients detected in this way proves to be high, can it be expected to extend the packages by further studies and extension of this program? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Mark Polak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u35	In fact, it has been a while since you have already asked me about this package of studies and I have not given you an answer, so I am going back. It is, in principle, a basic research package, slightly differentiated for women and men. These are primarily blood tests, complete blood count, cholesterol, glucose in the blood, creatinine, but also a general urine test. There are also, what is important, two studies focused primarily on cancer prevention, i.e. blood hidden in stools - it is called. FIT test, and for men, an extension of PSA, a prostate specific antigen, to diagnose prostate cancer. In addition, of course, the study package, which is carried out by a doctor or nurse: measuring the pressure, measuring the rhythm of the heart, such a basic - let's call it a review. Of course, these two programmes are connected, i.e. programme 40+ and programme unlimited access to benefits to specialists, because we really expect that some people diagnosed in programme 40+ will have to count on further diagnosis. First of all, it's on the doctor's side of primary health care, and his services are being used. This is the direction of the program, these are recommendations that patients will receive. On the other hand, we assume that some of these patients will have to go to specialists, and that's what the unlimited access to benefits program I was talking about, answering a previous question, a program in which we decide to finance outpatient care benefits, regardless of the contract, regardless of the contract. We know well that for many, many years the problem of the Polish health system, the problem of overperformances, limited contracts, limits of admissions, resulted in that in certain months, e.g. Autumn or winter, clinics didn't take patients, saying that their contract, their contract had run out and they couldn't give any more advice. Now, hopefully, this access will actually expand, will increase. I hope that, while continuing with these activities that I mentioned earlier in the field of outpatient specialist care, we will be able to address the challenges to which patients should be diagnosed in the prevention programme 40+. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u36	Thank you very much. Back to the Polish Coalition. Members Mirosław Maliszewski, Jan Łopata, Stefan Krajewski, Urszula Nowogórska, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz and Mieczysław Kasprzak will ask a question about insurance of farmers against the risk of natural disasters. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Bartosik. Ms Urszula Nowogórska asks the first question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u37	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question about agriculture. You know perfectly well that agriculture is a heavy piece of bread, it's hard work, it's sweat flowing from the forehead, it's different prices of fruit, goods, crops, cereals, agricultural fruits, but it's also a threat that carries weather conditions. That's what happened last time. You know very well that in June, in the area of the Limanów County, the Łukowica Municipality, the surrounding municipalities and districts there were huge hails, which resulted in huge losses in crops, orchards, agricultural production. I took the liberty of addressing the Ministry of Agriculture with interpellation and asking about the losses suffered by farmers and Sadists as a result of the hailing in the commune of Łukowica in the Limanów district and in other Polish areas and I received information that in addition to preferential loans, exemptions, deferrals, as well as exemptions from agricultural tax by wojites and mayors... This is what farmers can count on, but I wanted to ask: What happens to agricultural insurance? After all, in 2016 the Insurance Act was passed. Under this law, in 2021 public funds were to be allocated to PLN 1420 million from the state budget, with only PLN 400 million. What do these farmers have to count on? What hope do they have? This hard work requires a great deal of money and farmers are counting on state aid. They also count on a disaster fund that should be created, because that is the only way we can secure their business and agricultural production. As you know very well, additional aid measures must also be put in place, we need to run and carry out the loss verification committees efficiently. This is what farmers are counting on, and that is what we, members of the Coalition Poland - PSL club, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives are counting on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u38	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Two points were raised in the question. As far as insurance is concerned, which is already in operation, we have allocated PLN 400 million for this purpose. On the basis of the Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance Act, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development concluded agreements with seven insurance undertakings on insurance premiums for insurance contracts concluded for the current year. On the basis of the above contracts in the spring season, i.e. By 15 June this year, insurance cover under state-funded insurance contracts was covered by more than 2.1 million ha, and this was therefore at a similar level as in the years 2019 and 2020. High Izbo! Insurance undertakings indicate that one of the reasons for the reduction of insurance, e.g. the insurance of fruit against the risk of hail and the negative effects of wintering, there is a high risk associated with these insurances arising from climate change, territorial concentration and high insurance sums. Insurance undertakings also indicate that the Financial Supervision Commission has consistently monitored compliance for several years that insurance premiums should ensure at least that all insurance obligations are fulfilled and that insurance costs are covered. It should be stressed that insurance contracts are civil law contracts concluded by the parties voluntarily and formed under the existing rules. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development must not interfere with the sales policy of insurers. On the other hand, measures are being taken to propose solutions to increase the efficiency and rationality of spending budgetary resources on insurance products already offered to Polish farmers and to expand their list. As I said before, the planned amount of expenditure is PLN 400 million. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the disasters that have occurred in recent weeks, days or months, there are municipal committees set up by the voivodships. The losses are estimated, and once they are estimated, we will try to address the problem of these damages. As we know, insurance contracts are concluded on spring and autumn terms. We are trying - we are also talking to the Ministry of Finance - to increase the pool of funds, because it is indeed insufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth considering at this point, and there are preliminary work on it, on changing this system of agricultural insurance to another, more efficient one. There are different possibilities. Of course, reciprocity insurance in mutual insurance companies is important. This will be covered by the strategic plan for the common agricultural policy 2023-2027. We want to lead these insurances in this direction so that the protection of farmers, agricultural producers, is at a higher level. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u41	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! I rarely use strong words, but it's hard not to say that it's a scandal. Minister! If you've written down 1,400 million in the bill, and you're spending only 400 million, which you just admitted, and the insurance file itself or the insurance option itself lasts 3 minutes - I repeat: 3 minutes - for certain risk groups, that's it. It's just an ordinary scandal. But in order for you not to understand or attribute political action to us, I wanted to quote one paragraph of the appeal of one of the affected communes in the Opolskie district in the Lublin Voivodeship, the Karczmiska commune, who write in this way, write councillors, and signed the chairman of the council: The existing aid mechanism providing for a payment to farmers of several hundred PLN to 1 ha will in no way alleviate the losses incurred. The estimated revenue (the bell) from 1 ha of specialised crops is tens of thousands. Furthermore, we would like to point out that this year farmers had very limited possibilities to cover their crops against random events. The opening of the policy window took a few minutes - the councillors also admit. We call on the Polish Government to provide adequate assistance to the losses incurred. Minister! Help, the farmers are screaming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u42	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, the state budget could have generated 400 million PLN so far. We are trying to make more money so that these insurances are increased during the autumn period. This year, disasters are local in nature. Unfortunately, they occur with high intensity because there is rain or rain or hail. We have not yet said that we will not help farmers. At the moment, the estimate of losses is ongoing and it will continue because these disasters have occurred, but we expect that they will still take place. There's a lot of hailing. We want to increase funds during the autumn period under the current system. We talked about this at one of the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, there was a longer discussion and conclusion on it, the summary of this meeting of the committee was such as to change the insurance system to a more effective one. There are different possibilities, we are preparing and it will be possible next year. We want this system to work a little differently in 2022 and more resources for this purpose. As far as events of this year are concerned, they must first carry out their work by committees, assess the damage. Then we will intervene accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u44	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Waldemar Andzel and Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the program of repatriation of capital to Poland. This question will be asked to the Minister for Development, Work and Technology. They will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Iwona Michalek. I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The capital repatriation programme is one of the pillars of the tax restart of the economy. Please indicate the main objectives of this programme. On what basis will family foundations work? When will the proposed changes enter into force? And is the resort familiar with similar capital repatriation schemes in other European Union countries, or are we pioneers on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u46	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister, to give an extensive statement and answer this brief question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u47	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! One of the elements of the Polish Order is the introduction of a family foundation into the Polish legal order of the institution. The bill will be prepared by the Ministry, which I represent, namely the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice. This will be another step in supporting the succession of Polish companies, in particular due to generational changes. The idea of a new institution is to assume that business and family are seemingly separated from each other because family property becomes property of a family foundation. However, the family foundation works with a view to providing the family with financial resources, implementing the vision of the funder and taking care of the values accepted by him in the business. It is intended to ensure the operation of the enterprise for generations and secure the financial needs of the beneficiaries. The possibility of establishing family foundations in Poland is intended to increase the chances of successful, multigenerational succession in Polish family companies, building strong brands, accumulation and capital protection, is intended to contribute to making new investments. The basic assumptions of this project are as follows. We want to introduce a new legal person established on the territory of the Republic of Poland into legal order. We will grant the status of funder to a natural person with full legal capacity, i.a. the right to freely dispose of its assets. We will make it possible to identify individuals and public benefit organisations as beneficiaries. This means that the family foundation will become a formal owner of the company, e.g. shares in companies, securities or real estate, and families of entrepreneurs, their children and grandchildren will be beneficiaries of this family foundation. The family foundation will operate through the board of directors and will be subject to internal supervision of the board of protectors. The beneficiaries will be set up to gather beneficiaries to meet in specific cases, e.g. when supplementing the composition of the body concerned. This will ensure the necessary influence of the family on the most important issues connected with the operation of this foundation. Main issues related to the operation of the family foundation, among others: the purpose, duration, amount of the initial fund, the action of the authorities, the way the beneficiaries are designated, of course, will be specified in the statutes. We also want to ensure the tax neutrality of the family foundation and include in the taxation the family relationship between the beneficiaries and the funder. We have recently completed the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultation, and the comments submitted were discussed during the agreement conference. We are in the process of preparing another version of the project on the basis of these findings. This is a very good project and I hope that we will be able to implement it quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u48	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, this solution, the family foundation, will certainly also contribute to the fact that there will be greater certainty of capital, to the development of those small companies that are just trying to develop their capital, but also, I think, that some people who are emigrating, using this solution, will be able to function in our economic trade. Could the Minister also talk about other programmes that concern the repatriation of capital or those who are abroad? There are almost a dozen million Poles there. I think, in general terms, this idea of bringing in capital to bring in these people will be beneficial to our economy. There we talk about various reliefs, about corporate social responsibility, about solutions that create the possibility to finance various (Dawn) investments. So that if you could tell me any more about it, I'd be very obliged.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Like I said, we're actually at the end of the deal. I hope that these provisions will enter into force on 1 January 2022. This is very, very important. We want to encourage the property to return to Poland, where possible, and so that Poles can develop it here. We very much want the funds paid, for example. from the family foundation were taxed similarly as donations - funds which would be transferred directly from the funder. So we also want to make this financial issue very clear when it comes to the family foundation. Well, we prepare a lot of things, we are, sir, in the course of talks, in the course of action. I hope that in the near future we will present further proposals which will facilitate such activities, will draw Polish capital from abroad to Poland and will strengthen it here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u52	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of the Civic Coalition Dorota Niedziela, Kazimierz Plocke, Piotr Borys, Iwona Maria Kozłowska and Anna Wojciechowska will ask a question about a new strategy for combating avian influenza in the light of articles in the European press and statements from the main veterinarian and the State Veterinary Institute in Puławy. The question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will be answered by Minister Ryszard Bartosik. I would like to ask Mrs Dorota's question on Sunday. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The British press has recently published publications on this year's epidemic of avian influenza in Poland. The Veterinary Inspection noted, let us remind, this year, in 2021, a record number of 338 outbreaks of avian influenza, which concerned 12 million birds, ladies and gentlemen. Experts of animal diseases and infectious diseases not associated with the Veterinary Inspection or the PIWet claim that no biological safety standards will work with the concentration of production in the Mazowsze region and especially in the Żuromin district. During a press conference held on 19 May by the Ministry of Agriculture with the participation of the Chief Veterinary Officer and the Director of the State Veterinary Institute in Puławy, you announced that the avian influenza is contained and informed about the development of a new strategy for the control of avian influenza in Poland. However, it is worrying that a representative of the Chief Veterinary Officer in interviews in the media claims that the Chief Veterinary Officer or the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development do not have mechanisms to shape the production structure in each region. This results in virtually no impact on the shape and scope of the structure of breeding in Poland. It can also be concluded from this statement that the law in force now allows the creation of an epizootic and environmental bomb, and the state has no influence on this - it is only necessary to increase the number of doctors, the disposal, the number of services, but not to counteract what has happened, among others. This year. I believe that the new strategy for combating this disease in Poland that you have announced could explain the conflicting opinions (The Bell) and I would very much like to ask you to present me and send me this strategy in writing which would show how we will be able to protect the country from the dangers of both infectious animal diseases and zoos in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u54	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The epidemic of avian influenza in the 2020/2021 season was Europe's largest in history, both in terms of duration and number of outbreaks. Over 1350 outbreaks in poultry have been detected throughout the European Union season... [[1368.]] ...and nearly 2900 cases in wild birds. At that time, Poland confirmed 357 outbreaks in poultry and 92 cases in wild birds. Avian influenza has taken on unprecedented proportions, affecting the entire poultry sector. The situation was particularly difficult in the so-called. a poultry hole, in the powiats Mławski and Żurominski in Mazowsze. The scale of this year's avian influenza has highlighted issues which require further action in agreement and involving the poultry sector in order to improve its strategy for combating this disease. For this purpose, meetings are held and talks are held with the poultry industry. So far, the main elements of the modified strategy are primarily actions aimed at early detection of influenza virus. To this end, four additional diagnostic laboratories in the country are planned to be launched for testing samples for avian influenza. As a consequence, the National Reference Laboratory (NRL) Avian influenza of the State Veterinary Institute in Puławy will be able to focus on testing samples coming primarily from farms where avian influenza is suspected. For this purpose, veterinary hygiene laboratories were designated in Poznań, Krosno and Siedlce, as well as the Zakład Pryszczyca in Zduńska Wola. It is planned to launch these additional laboratories by the end of September. Procedures are also envisaged for speeding up and increasing the mobility of disease control activities, the creation and wider use of risk maps and the stepping up of training of poultry farmers in compliance with bioinsurance rules. The next planned action is to strengthen the bio-insurance measures of farms as far as possible. New proposals for solutions are being prepared in this area in cooperation with the poultry industry. We are preparing a new regulation to improve bioinsurance and improve safety, and all this is done in agreement with the poultry industry. A detailed schedule of these actions will, of course, be presented in writing. As we have announced, these solutions will be ready by September this year and then we will present a timetable. High Izbo! The disease scale also forced the implementation of a prevention strategy for the slaughter of poultry in high risk areas in order to break the transmission chain of infections and reduce the risk of new outbreaks. This was recommended by the National Reference Laboratory (NRL). Bird Influenza in Puławy and is also used in other countries, e.g. in the Netherlands. It is a radical method, but it allows you to fight bird flu faster and more effectively. It is also planned to amend plans for the preparedness of highly pathogenic avian influenza. As far as concentration of production is concerned, we do not really have any influence in the current legal situation. There is a law under investigation by the Ministry of Climate Affairs, and work on this issue is ongoing, but at the moment we have no influence on interference in the concentration of production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u57	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! In addition to avian influenza, African swine fever is a dangerous infectious disease. The information available shows that the situation on the pig market is very worrying. What does that tell you? In 2021, 11 ASF outbreaks were recorded, covering around 20,000. pigs, while in the last 5 years some 165 thousand have disappeared. swine flocks. According to data from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, about 80,000 remain. of pigs. This means no less, no more than that on a daily basis, about 250 farms are shutting down the production of pigs on their farms. The Civic Coalition has repeatedly presented its proposals for the fight against ASF, among others. increase expenditure from the State budget to strengthen veterinary inspections (Ringtone), 100% reimbursement of bioinsurance costs for small pig producers and not as at present as at 50% , as well as launching a nationwide information campaign aimed at the general public. Minister, I would like to ask what concrete measures the government will take to minimise the losses on pig farms in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u58	Thank you very much for that question. I ask the Minister to respond. Although the question was to be asked about avian influenza, I do not know if the Minister is prepared to answer... [[...infectious diseases.]] ...because from what I remember, pigs don't fly, but anything can happen. [[But they have infectious diseases.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u59	I'll answer as much as I can, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we did not have that question in this form. The questions were meant for pathogenic avian influenza, but of course we have a problem with African swine fever. This problem has been going on for a long time. Of course, we want to increase the resources, and soon the funds for damages will be increased for this purpose. Work is ongoing in the Committee on Public Finance in terms of increasing resources. This will be the first tranche of money... [[Inspections.]] ...preferably for damages. We're also looking for resources for inspections. [[How much?]] I hope we get some money in the second half of this year. Discussions are ongoing with the Ministry of Finance. We also increase bio-insurance. We are trying to inform farmers, to train in this area, but there are also work to rebuild the stock after the ASF. We will want to allocate resources and actions to this end, and this is a fundamental task. On the other hand, veterinary inspections shall ensure that all bioinsurance rules are complied with if there are outbreaks. According to our records, there were 13, not 15. We try to react quickly, sometimes very radically. I am aware that we are being criticised by farmers, but this type of action must be taken in emergency situations. Nevertheless, the main veterinarian checks each such case individually through his counterparts in the voivodships and in the county and all preventive measures, preventive slaughter, are applied according to the needs of the village... [[How much money?]] ...in a given area, so that the disease does not spread. Sometimes, however, it is very often painful for farmers, because we need to take radical action. [[How much money for an inspection?]] I don't know right now. As far as the scale of the funds is concerned, talks are currently ongoing with the Ministry of Finance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And how much did the ministry come up with?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u60	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the seventh question. Members Andrzej Gawron, Mariusz Trepka and Lydia Burzyńska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the "Science for Society" programme. This question is addressed to the Minister of Education and Science. Mr Wojciech Murdzek will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science. I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the Ministry of Education and Science, a new program was created for society. It is a programme addressed to higher education and science actors. As we learn, the main objective of the programme is to strengthen cooperation between science and the economy and society. Projects aimed at cooperation between scientific institutions and non-governmental, social and economic organisations may be supported. So far, the catalogue of scientific programmes seems to have lacked such a clearly targeted initiative that would cover so many key tasks. For me, the most important thing is the matter of cooperation between science and business. The aim must always be to improve the quality of research, but especially in contact with the economic environment, there is a problem with the commercialisation of research results. I have a question as to whether the "Science for Society" programme will also be implemented in this segment in order to make the commercialisation of research results more efficient. But I would also ask you to discuss the whole scope of the programme, which is particularly important now, during the pandemic period and after the pandemic. Hopefully, there will be no further waves, but new solutions need to be rehearsed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u62	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The programme is a programme that extends the existing programme of Dialog and identifies these specific needs and accents to bring science closer to society. During the pandemic, we watched how careful society becomes when it comes to achieving science, especially those that help us live, function in a safe way, show some dependency. I think that this scientific approach has shown that also through the promotion of scientific solutions an additional sense of security can be shaped, connected with the fact that someone is working, thinking on different aspects. We've been following the work on the Coronavirus tests, we've been following all the situations that describe the pandemic mechanisms. Later, a very clear accent was placed in various opinions on many questions related to vaccines. And this is a whole block that turned out to be very needed and was actively developed. But, of course, we need to point out an aspect. - again very up-to-date - this dullness in the economy, all the turbulence that broke the supply chains, and which has completely changed the way things work. Of course, we want to break through the message, which would indicate that really science in the process of rebuilding and seeking the growth of the economy is vitally important for this growth and economic recovery to be based to a large extent on the achievements of science, innovation, research, but implemented. The programme is aimed at universities, scientific institutes, the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Centre and individual institutes of the Łukasiewicz Research Network - we also think about the activities of the Polish Academy of Skills, the Centre. medical training - to all those who carry out scientific activities on their own and on a continuous basis, in order not only to address these challenges and this work, but also to make it possible to reach the public with this message. We are planning to start the selection of proposals under this programme on 2 August. Of course, stakeholders know the procedures, they know where to apply, how to apply. We would like the programme to be covered by three fundamental pillars. The first is scientific excellence in order to constantly improve the quality of scientific research, so that scientists take on new challenges, new programs, such as those I mentioned because of Coronavirus, but this space is constantly being expanded. The second pillar is science for innovation, as the Member pointed out, in order to be able to translate science into innovative solutions, such development research as could be applied and verified in economic practice. And here I will give an example of the support given to Mrs Olga Malinkiewicz in the initial phase of her work on the pervs. This is one of many examples related to science, but it is special, because it ends at the stage of the creation of a Polish factory in Wrocław, i.e. the beginning of production. So this is not only an idea, which we have always struggled with, but also a concrete implementation and expansion of various possible applications, which is this aspect. And it's worth talking about just to give the courage of other scientists to show determination in the implementation of solutions. A new element, for example, in relation to the program, is the accent related to the subject: humanities, society, identity. The idea is not to forget important issues such as health security, the economy, but also issues arising from different new situations that open up a space for research in the fields of humanities, as regards the analysis of new phenomena that occurred during the pandemic in society, so that science helps to look for good behaviour, good solutions, which is an extremely important aspect. We hope that these entities (the bell) will come forward and that this activity will serve us all as best as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u64	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A programme that is good for society, which is intended to serve society, is very much needed in my opinion. I would like to know what the amount allocated to this programme is and whether it will be continuous recruitment. Can the Minister say anything today about the Polish cure for Coronavirus or the Polish vaccine, how far are the advanced work? You can say that these universities can benefit from this programme for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u66	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u67	The programme provides for the allocation of PLN 20 million for this year. The call is continuous. The projects could be 100,000. Up to 2 million. And once again, I will point out that this is not a direct response to these solutions, this is about opening up some new spaces and communicating information, which is an additional stimulus to the world of science. On the other hand, much more resources are needed in these projects, such as for the next stage of research, preparation for the Polish vaccine. Of course, the word "Polish" is heart-friendly here, but in the global world these are international teams, these are the results of the work of various scientists. Here, for example, the activity of the Polish Development Fund is a grant of PLN 40 million in terms of one aspect related to the vaccine, while as far as these advanced works are concerned, about 10 different threads appeared with more or less chances. Of course, when it comes to programs and work related to the ventilator, the ventil system, or using a kind of double one respirator, we spend a lot of money on all of this. There are programs dedicated to the NCBR and there are scientists involved, for example, in this space of looking for answers to the coranavirus they have submitted applications, they will be considered in the near future. And we've already had two special paths in the NCBR. Let me remind you, one in the amount of over 100 million starters, the other in the amount of 200 starters. These are huge resources. However, the challenges are even greater. The point is that science prepares an offer for this initial phase, because an already advanced stage, the final stage of clinical trials related to vaccines, some say it's a level of 1 billion, 2 billion. We do not anticipate such measures. On the other hand, it is about bringing industry, business, to the point where it is worth getting into this dialogue. [[Voice from the room: Invest.]] We hope for this kind of success of Polish scientists and we would like to inform about them in this program (The Bell) that this feedback will reach society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Messengers Urszula Augustyn and Krystyna Szumilas from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition would like to ask a question about the ideological and harmful activities of educational curators, in particular Małopolska curator of education Mrs Barbara Nowak and Łódź curator of education Mr Waldemar Flaszier. This question will be asked by the Minister of Education and Science. Mr Tomasz Romankowski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science. I ask Mrs Ursula Augustyn to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We know from the previous term of office how much authority you have given to the school curators, and that you are going to give even more power to the school curators, that is what we learn from the draft laws that you are about to process. We also know that the school curators are from the minister's appointment, but this is also the responsibility of the minister and the ministry for what the school curators do. We would therefore like to ask once again for answers to our questions to the Minister of Education. We have spoken in writing many times, in the form of interpellation, but not just us, the Polish Members, but also the citizens. Nearly 2,000 have been signed by Barbara Nowak's parole officer under appeal. almost 4,000 have signed the same petition addressed to the voivodship with the same request. People, but you don't hear it, just like you don't realize that your parole officer Barbara is hurting you. Nowak has an impact on what happens in schools. What's more, except that Barbara's parole officer Nowak allows himself to have unelegant, malicious, harmful statements evaluating the environment, evaluating various phenomena, thus giving a discount to his views, as you can see, not everyone agrees with it, but your curator is still fighting with the teachers openly. How can one explain the fact that in Małopolska there are half in relation to the entire Poland of disciplinary proceedings against teachers? Moreover, as these disciplinary decisions are subsequently verified by the Board of Appeal, which acts at the Minister of Education, it turns out that the majority of these ministerial decisions are withdrawn. Therefore, we ask whether you control what is going on in individual education institutions and when you finally notice the problem and start making decisions, because that is your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u70	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Minister of Education and Science and voivodships shall assess the activities of education curators in relation to the performance of specific tasks by these authorities. The Act defines the tasks of education curators. This body shall exercise pedagogical supervision over public, non-public kindergartens and other forms of pre-school education, schools, institutions and colleges of social services staff; it shall issue administrative decisions on matters referred to in the Act; it shall cooperate with educational councils established under Article. 78 Educational law; carries out the tasks of a higher authority within the meaning of the Code of Administrative Procedure in relation to the bodies of local government units in matters of public schools and institutions, established and operated by legal persons and natural persons, and non-public schools and institutions, heads of schools in matters of school duty and obligation to study; carries out educational policy of the State, and cooperates with the authorities of local authorities in the creation and implementation of appropriately regional and local education policies; develops programmes for the use of funds for the financing of teacher training; organises olympiads, competitions, tournaments; cooperates with district examination committees; cooperates with teacher education institutions, psychological and pedagogical guidance and libraries; assists in the organisation of examinations in schools; advises the work plans of educational institutions; reviews the work plans of public organisations of schools; cooperates with authorities of local self-government bodies in the formation and development of a material base of schools; cooperates with competent authorities, organisations and other bodies in matters relating to the development of children and youth; supervises and assists with the organisation of other professional staff. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In carrying out its assessment, the Minister shall determine whether the probation officer's actions indicate negligence or inadequate performance of the assigned tasks. The public statements by Barbara Nowak's curator regarding the various aspects of social life do not indicate negligence or improper execution of the tasks of the curator laid down in the act and do not constitute grounds for non-compliance by schools and institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Shumilas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u73	Minister! You've read us a bill that everyone knows. However, you have referred to the essence of things in such a way that you simply do not want... that you accept the attitude of the curators of education, the anti-educational attitude, the attitude that offends the environment, the attitude that does not suit the teacher. Nowak's parole officer talked about giving children alcohol and drugs. I heard she got that information. I spoke with Kinga Gajewska to your parole officer with a question. She said they were anonymous calls and she couldn't intervene. When she reported that children were given alcohol and drugs (the bell), she did not intervene. Minister! You're attacking teachers. You attack teachers, and when asked why your parole officer insults the Jagiellonian University, your parole officer says he does it in private time. If the teacher participated in the strike of women in private time, you put him in front of the disciplinary committee. [[That's right.]] And one more question, Minister: How many social assistants, how many other friends will you award to the National Education Committee Medal? The headmaster of the school who punished students for his avatar got the National Education Committee Medal from you. [[Mr. Marshal, please respond... time.]] The press says he was your social assistant. How many other friends and social assistants will you award to the National Education Committee Medal for acting in accordance with your ideology, in line with what you preach, in line with government policy, in line with the party's political line? School is to be free of politics, school is to be free of ideology. And the state acts and acts through curators in such a way that schools are ideologicalized, schools are subjected to political pressure, and those who disagree with you are punished. However, you are an unpunished Małopolska curator, you are an unpunished Łódź curator, because they are your political soldiers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. [[I hope that I will also get three times the time, like Mr Shumilas.]] Madam President, you will, because the person leading you is in favour of discussing rather than shutting the mouth of Members and Members. [[I'll hold you to that, Marshal.]] I think your remarks are a little out of place, because you know that I am always conducting meetings so that all those who ask questions or give answers have the time to do so. On the other hand, I would advise you to be so active at a time when the other marshals are in session. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u75	Thank you very much. To answer Mrs Shumilas' question, I would like to say that none of my current assistants... [[Current.]] ...he didn't get the award. It is not my fault that the Łódź City Hall and the Civic Platform are haunting teachers. This case is being handled by the D.A.'s office right now. In my opinion, there has been a breach of public authority by the Vice President of Moscow, who has used the harshest instrument that gives the Teacher Card in a situation of reasonable suspicion of committing a crime - removal of the principal from school, suspension in the performance of his duties. In this situation, however, there has been, above all, the terror of political correctness. Member, do not turn your tail around. You're the ones who are trying to create the terror of political correctness. Even today, disgraceful lies, slanders and slanders appear on the website of the City Hall of Łódź before the Minister of National Education or to the Director of Dariusz Jakub. You are not even able to see as a political formation that the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence was awarded by President Andrzej Duda last year - you write that this year it was awarded. These are all lies and slanders. Director Dariusz Jakub was branded by you, persecuted and, worse, persecution continues. And we, as the Ministry of National Education, will defend ourselves against political persecution on your part... [[...assistant.]] ...good Polish teachers. [[Voice from the room: Your former assistant...]] As long as the Law and Justice rule, the school is to be apolitical, and the terror of political correctness, which you apply pointlessly where you have power, we will stigmatize and eliminate. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[You're defending your assistants, and you're harassing the teachers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u76	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Questions will be asked by Members Kazimierz Matuszny, Marek Kuchciński, Anna Paluch, Barbara Bartus, Stanisław Swed and Przemysław Drabek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. They will cover financial and organisational support for mountain rescuers to ensure greater security for tourists in the mountains. These questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Minister Maciej Wąsik. I ask Mr Kazimierz Matuszny to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For several years we have seen a rather significant increase in the interest in mountain tourism. And the pandemic year made this growth dynamic a few hundred percent. Mountain cycling is developing very rapidly. It is not meaningless here that, so to speak, technology, e-bikes somehow facilitate this form of tourism. But there's also an increasing accident rate. Especially when it comes to bicycles, these events are unfortunately such that there are very serious injuries. Of course, with the help of those people who touch something in the mountains - random events, accidents - help mountain rescuers, people who are at their disposal 7 days a week 24 hours a day and whenever necessary, with health risks, often and life help tourists. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: What measures did the government take to support this group of wonderful, heroic people, completely underestimated for many years, especially in view of all these new challenges? I am talking about both financial and organisational issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u78	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of my answer, I wanted to stress that the government absolutely appreciates the huge contribution of both GOPR and TOPR to security in the mountains. It's just an essential, capital contribution. Without these two organizations, you cannot imagine safe tourism and safe spending time in the mountains. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration realises that it is necessary to sniff and blow on these two organizations and assist them wherever they can. And it seems to me that with the huge support of the Members from the south of Poland - we feel breath and expectations and thank you very much for reminding us about these matters - we manage to make these organizations, let us call it, in well-being. The first thing that was necessary in order for the TOPR to function properly in particular is the renovation of an old, but still good and modernized Falcon helicopter, which has Tatra Volunteer Emergency Service. I wanted to tell you that in the budget for this year we have allocated 17.5 million to the repair of this helicopter. There's been an invitation to tender. Unfortunately, I would like to say that this amount was not enough. Therefore, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration decided to transfer additional resources to the TOPR so that this helicopter would be properly renovated this year. Just like they told me last time at the rescue meeting, if it's renovated, there'll be a security chopper for 10 years, which, of course, is of great importance to safety not only in the mountains, but also in this whole part of Podhale. This helicopter is often used for communication accidents. It works, saves lives. Thus, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration allocated over PLN 20 million for this purpose. The renovation is scheduled for October 1st. I hope that by the end of the year it will be completed and by the New Year it will already be over Zakopane spinning a new rotor and basically a new helicopter. That's the first thing. Second thing. These are, of course, rather mundane matters, but nevertheless important. It's about the wages of the TOPRs and the GOPRs, who serve as staff rather than volunteer workers. The first increases were already granted in 2015. It was a total of 330 thousand. zł. Later in 2016, there was 1 percent, a small increase. In 2018, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration decided to increase subsidies to mountain rescue operators to finance increases. It was on average 400 PLN net since 1 August, and since 1 January 2019 an additional 400 PLN gross per month to work. We all remember the tragedy at Giewont in 2019. The Prime Minister was there. He talked to the volunteers, he saw their needs, and he told us to make a new raise that we realized. It was $1,000. net zlotys plus an increase in the number of posts for TOPR and GOPR by 11. It was an enormous amount of 2855,000. zł. This year we met with volunteers. Indeed, they see this huge increase in traffic in the mountains that you have spoken about. Following this is a huge increase in their work. Together we decided that another 10 jobs would go accordingly: 2 to the TOPR, 8 to the GOPR, to help safety. I would like to say to you that we have also developed funds for another salary increase of PLN 800 from 1 September this year for staff members. In total, 166 people are working at GOPR and TOPR at the end of the day, the others are volunteers who volunteer. The average salary currently in TOPR is PLN 6478 gross and in GOPR PLN 5852, but I am only talking about those who have to ensure continuity of institutions, sustainable movement. It seems that cooperation with TOPR and GOPR on the part of the Ministry looks good. These meetings are nice, nice and fruitful. I wanted to highlight one more thing, which is extremely important. All the additional funds transferred this year to the TOPR and GOPR, to the helicopter, to the wage increases, to the new jobs come only from the savings made by the Ministry in the administration. So it can be said that we have made a great deal of savings, which we have entirely provided to increase security in the mountains and improve the financial satisfaction of TOPR and GOPR volunteers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u80	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Anna Paluch for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u81	Dear Minister, High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for being open to the needs of the rescue environment. I have a deep conviction that volunteering is extremely valuable, it's just a great rarity when the world is commercializing for us. These are models of behavior that everyone thinks about a career. This is why it is all the more important to appreciate the voluntary service in mountain areas, which they carry out regardless of the time of year, day and weather, as TOPR and GOPR say. We are very happy with this helicopter, and we are very happy with the increases that the Minister spoke about. It must be borne in mind that very often the chiefs, the people responsible for the organization of the rescue service, spoke of a problem such as the escape of the staff. Until the lifeguard gets trained, there aren't all the specialties done (the bell), serving as a volunteer, and then, as soon as he can work at the ski station, then... Ski stations paid a lot more and there was a drain of rescuers. So these increases that the Minister spoke of caused the problem to be reduced and as if the staff weren't running away. But we have to think ahead, we have to think about the future. Could the Minister say anything about solutions not only to professional rescuers but also to volunteer rescuers? This is an extremely valuable service for which you really need to sigh and blow and appreciate it. We are very grateful for what has been done so far, and we are very happy and thanking the Minister for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u82	Thank you very much for your thanks. Minister, would you please address the words of your Member? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u83	Aye, aye, Marshal. Of course, I can say something, and thank you very much for that question, because I didn't say one very important... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that it? No? Uh-huh. [[No, no, it's just mine.]] No, it's, sir, it's old. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I didn't say a very important element. As you probably know, we are proceeding with the Volunteer Fire Department Act, which is an essential element of which is the introduction of a pension allowance for retired volunteers who have served 25 years and, in the case of women, 20 years. If men are 65 years old and women are 60 years old, they are entitled to a pension allowance for service at the TSO. I wanted to thank you for this idea, because it was on the part of your Members that an initiative came out to join this system also of TOPR and GOPR rescuers. And, Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that thanks to the Members of the parliamentary team in the government bill, there have also been additions for TOPR and GOPR rescuers. All the volunteers who retire will be paid by the State for a small amount, but certainly an indexed pension allowance. They will certainly feel it, and it will certainly increase the attractiveness of this service. This will be a certain appreciation of rescuers by the state, because I agree with the Member that their work is simply inestimable. It is a great thing, it is our huge value, also a huge tradition, this relay of generations. This must be greatly encouraged, as the Government of Law and Justice is determined to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u84	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the last question. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the parliamentary club of the Left, will be asking questions about the disregard by the Management Board of Polish Post for wage demands of a joint union representation of 25 trade unions operating in Poczta Polska SA. This question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Andrzej Śliwka. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The joint union representation of 25 trade unions in Poczta Polska informs that the Polish Post Office Board ignores their wage demands. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Politely, Mrs... It's about you listening to the minister, isn't it? He disregards the crew's wage demands. According to the trade unions, there is a wage degradation of Polish Post employees. In 2008, the average wage in Poczta Polska, when employment was over 100,000. employees, amounted to 104% national average. Today... At the end of the year, after group redundancies and voluntary departures, there will be 70,000. postal workers and the average wage will be 75% national average. The great danger is that 60% National staff of the Polish Post operator today earns at the minimum wage level. On the one hand, young people who end up with employment contracts are not renewed, and on the other hand, you inform them that they have vacancies. In large cities in particular, workers with a high internship are leaving due to very low wages. Another difficult issue that postal workers, trade unionists, inform about is that people are fired on the one hand, and on the other hand they employ their people, retired military and police officers, who do not know about the company's current activities, for profitable, well-paid management positions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also a disturbing signal that large groups of employees are being admitted to Polish Post subsidiaries. It's about customer advisors, IT guys and couriers. Minister! When will the owner of the national operator of Polish Post invite the Management Board of Polish Post to the interview and complete the process of degradation of Polish Post employees, the highest good of this national operator? When's the government gonna start taking an interest in this? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u86	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for that question. In the Ministry of State Assets, the situation of the Polish Post is particularly concerned due to pandemic conditions and the market environment. The pandemic period was particularly difficult for Polish Post as an entity, which is a national postal operator. Nevertheless, I will refer to the questions of the Member and a few of them have been asked. First of all, I would like to stress that it is difficult to talk about disregard at a time when on 30 June 2021 the Polish Post Board reached an agreement on collective redundancies with the trade unions, the social side mentioned by the Member. That's the first line. The next issue is the discussions on wage demands. They're rolling. They were suspended due to the pandemic situation. I have a clear position outlined by the Management Board of Polish Post that the Management Board of Polish Post hopes to resume them and that this renewal will take place in the near future. Therefore, it is difficult to say, sir... It can even be said that it is not true that the Polish Post Office's declaration of disregard for common union representation is incorrect. To respond to what you have said, I would like to mention a few facts. The Management Board of Polish Post is engaged in intensive dialogue with the social side. The Polish Post established permanent representatives to conduct the dialogue. Only in the first half of the year, Mr B.C., the Management Board organised at central level 16 large meetings with representatives of the company's employees, concerning, among others. discuss the strategy of the Polish Post, which was adopted, the collective wage agreement and the distribution into the remuneration fund for 2021. The meetings also concerned the proceding of new working rules, as well as the situation in individual verticals, among others. in Piona Poczta Polska Protection, also in Piona Informatics and Telecommunications, but it is at the central level. I would still like to say that the Management Board of Polish Post is in permanent working contact with two representative trade union headquarters, i.e. OPZZ and.Solidarity. With regard to the meeting, not at central level, but at regional and local level, I would like to say that such meetings were close to 50. They took place with representatives of the trade union organisations. The parties asked questions, received answers. I would therefore like to lie to these claims that the Polish Post Board does not talk to the social side. On issues related to wage expectations. As I said, the board of directors is hoping to resume their talks in the near future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even if I could, Marshal. The Member spoke of an average monthly salary in Poczta Polska. I would like to say that between 2016 and 2020 it increased from PLN 3309 to PLN 4178. So this is nearly 900 zlotys gross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u88	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u89	Minister! I talked about disregarding the demands that have been raised as a result of discussions with trade unions. That's what the unionists write to the Prime Minister. Secondly, you mentioned an agreement on group redundancies. You're right, the board offered 2,000. The layoffs, and we've got 960. That is indeed an agreement. Third, you didn't address the pay gap. Please respond in writing on this matter. The next issue is the government's action against the national operator. The so-called ones have not yet been cleared. envelope choices. Secondly, PLN 30 million for the June-July elections. Third, the absence of PLN 250 million for the losses incurred by COVID-19 as compensation for the provision of services of a general nature. What is the minister responsible for Polish Post doing in this matter? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why doesn't he care about her, and because of that, the situation of the workers we talked about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u90	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u91	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a hurry to answer that. As regards the issue of the compensation formula for the provision of universal service for the period May-June, the request was addressed to the OOKiK as a notification is required for the funds to be transferred. This process is therefore ongoing. On the issue of settlement of elections for the President of the Republic. As regards the May elections that you mentioned, an agreement was concluded between the Polish Post Office and the National Election Office. Regarding the issue related to the settlement of the June elections, we as the Ministry of State Assets, the competent entity, are at the stage of the selection of an advisor who will examine the costs in kind and will be paid out after the examination of these funds to Poczta Polska. These three elements, which you mentioned, are therefore being examined. I understand, Mr President, that we all care about the good fate of the Polish Post, but we would also like all the elements to be carried out in accordance with the rules, in accordance with the procedure. One more element, if I could add. I would like to stress that, despite the extremely difficult situation at the end of 2020, the board and the social side reached a common agreement. This is Annex 1 to the collective wage agreement, which guarantees workers an extension of the period of supplementary benefits in the form of the Jubilee Prize and increased pension pay by the end of 2020. This is an agreement cost of PLN 160 million. In view of the nature of the activity carried out, Mr, the obligation to maintain an extensive network of establishments, to provide the universal service in question throughout the country, the costs of Polish Post are largely permanent and 70% These costs are labour costs. In view of the above, I would like to point out what the cost is. in the budget of the entity concerned. Despite such conditions, since 2016, Mr Poczta Polska's Management Board has allocated nearly PLN 1 billion to the increase in salaries of employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u92	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have this situation. The next point should start in half an hour, but we have an acceleration associated with the fact that we closed this point we talked about, so about the construction program of 100 bypasses we will start talking about at hours. 11.30. Apparently, this bypass that Minister Weber is on his way to us hasn't been built yet and hasn't just reached us yet. So if any of you would like to say anything, please, the bleacher is free. And if you don't want to say anything, I'm announcing a time-out. 11.30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 18 hours 11 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm, information will be considered on the implementation of the government programme of 100 bypasses for the years 2020 to 2030, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Peter King. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to provide a justification for today's current information. Before the construction programme was adopted, 100 bypasses were implemented on the basis of a national road construction programme. The absence of a dedicated programme caused that these investments were much less, less towns could count on moving out of the centre. In addition, it is worth recalling that the value of this programme adopted in 2015 was only PLN 107 billion and it was not entirely clear what investments were intended to be made within this amount. We were not convinced by the voices of the Civic Platform that for PLN 107 billion it is possible to carry out investments worth an estimated twice as much, or 200 billion. On the other hand, the issue of how the programme was set up and what the Minister of Infrastructure had to face when he took over his ministry after his predecessor. In parallel with the work on programming documents on the allocation of EU funds allocated to Poland, a new road programme was developed in 2014. Work started in 2013. The draft programme was addressed to the public in December 2014. The project at that time assumed for the implementation of new road investments 93 billion PLN. This amount was mainly due to the available Union funds and the possibility of financing the national contribution from the National Road Fund. The programme was then divided into two annexes: the basic list - the total limit of PLN 92.8 billion and the reserve list - PLN 40.5 billion. As a result of the public consultation and the updating of the estimates of tasks, the list of tasks on the basic and reserve list was gradually completed. In July 2015, the management of the Ministry decided to change its approach to the structure of the Programme. An assumption was made to leave one list, without dividing into the basic and reserve lists, the investment priorities of the Ministry, which may be addressed to implementation. From that point on, Annex 1 no longer indicated the specific investment titles to be implemented within the limit, but constituted only an overall pool of new investment tasks, which could be implemented within the limit, which was set at PLN 107 billion. The amount of PLN 107 billion was not sufficient from the outset to implement all the investments included in the programme. The programme included in its main part a list of large infrastructure projects, the value of which at the date of adoption of the programme amounted to almost PLN 200 billion according to estimates of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Therefore, the implementation of all the investments included in the programme for PLN 107 billion was pure fiction. Only the Government of the United Right, after its analysis of financial opportunities and investment needs, made changes to the programme in 2017 in order to sort it out. With a view to the transparency of the decision-making process, the Minister of Infrastructure prioritised the road investment tasks, which was reflected in the new form of the programme and increased to PLN 135 billion in financial limit. The main change made to the programme was the division into two groups of investment tasks under Annex 1 to the programme. The first group of tasks is the most important road tasks, which will be possible under the increased limit of PLN 135 billion. The increased financial limit of 135 billion allowed new sections of express roads and motorways, especially in Eastern Poland. This is mainly about the S19 expressway which is an important element of the Via Carpatia corridor and investments supporting Via Carpatia corridor in the form of sections of the A2 motorway and the S17 Sand - Hrebenne expressway. In addition, after assessing network needs to the list of priorities that have been addressed in the first place, i.e. within a limit of 135 billion, investments have been added to complement strings or direct new bypasses in national roads. That's, among other things.: construction of the ring road Olesna - S11, construction of the ring road Chełmna - S12, construction of the bypass road Opatowa - DK9, construction of the ring road Sępólna Krajeńskiego and Kamień Krajeńskiego - DK25 in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, construction of the ring road Zator - DK44, construction of the ring road Nowe Sącz and Chełmc - DK28, construction of the ring road Kędzierzyna-Koźla - DK40, construction of the ring road Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie - DK9 (Dzwonek), construction of the ring road road Radomska - DK42. In short, High Izbo, for the first time after 1990, we are dealing with the situation in Poland that the government of the Republic of Poland provided a full package and a full investment plan for the construction of the ring roads of the Republic of Poland, which is why we considered this information to be extremely important today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u94	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Rafał Weber to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Parliamentary Club Law and Justice very warmly, but also all Members who voted in favour of hearing the government's information on the implementation of the government's 100 bypass programme at this meeting. I am convinced that society is interested in what the implementation of the great road programme looks like. I thank Mr Peter King for this introduction, this historical introduction, because he is very important. Thinking about the future, about achieving goals and goals, we also need to look back, assess the situation, carry out a certain reconnaissance and then make decisions and set investment targets. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a reconnaissance on road needs on national road networks was carried out in 2019. The result of this reconnaissance of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was the announcement of a program of construction of 100 bypasses. Prime Minister in the autumn of 2019 in Lublin announced that if the Polish society entrusts governments in our country of Law and Justice or wider United Right for the next term, we will immediately proceed to this great transport project. And that's what happened. After the constitution of the government of the current term of office, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk and his colleagues, but also with the directors of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, carried out an in-depth, substantive road analysis and designated 100 investments to be carried out under the 100 bypasses programme. I had the privilege and pleasure of announcing these 100 tasks in February of the previous year. A few sentences, ladies and gentlemen, about what the criteria of the Ministry of Infrastructure were based on by choosing these investments. One of the most important was the intensity of traffic on the national road, which runs through the city centre. Whether it's a smaller town or a medium-sized city or a city of over 100 thousand. The second parameter is the accident parameter. It is clear that the new road is intended to increase road safety. We have tried to point out these tasks or to replace those sections of roads that have proved very dangerous in the past, those that have in the past experienced a large number of road accidents. The third parameter is the preparatory parameter of the task. By choosing 100 tasks for the basic list, we selected 48 investments that were to some extent advanced in February 2020 - even to a minimum, even in terms of defining a corridor or defining a technical and environmental study - in order to budget these investments, i.e. to allocate financial resources to them, and to carry out in the long term than tasks that do not have any documentation. The next parameter is the network consistency parameter. We look at national roads as a whole. We've got over 18 grand on the board. national roads. We want them not only safe, not only comfortable, but also consistent with each other and consistent with this communication system at the level of the voivodship, district and urban level. Finally, the last parameter: opening new economic opportunities, new economic opportunities, new opportunities for business creation. It is known that in many cases the bypass not only relieves traffic in the centre of a given village, but also opens new investment areas, which are later used to locate business activities there. This led the Minister of Infrastructure in the selection of 100 tasks that are on the basic list. We also created a reserve list. That's Annex 2 to the program. We have indicated the tasks that are needed. They will probably be implemented at the time of the savings on the basic list, but I want to assure those of you who are interested in the tasks on the reserve list that we will want to launch them gradually, i.e. sign investment programmes for preparatory work, so that when they are ready, they will be launched in an executive manner, i.e. to assign to them further funds for project implementation and construction. So that this is the aim of the Minister of Infrastructure at the moment, and I am convinced that during this term also within the framework of the great economic tool, which is Poland's Load, we will gradually sign investment programmes and launch preparatory work for further road investments. So that the programme for the construction of 100 bypasses for the years 2020 to 2030, which I have here with me, is such a first - not only since 1990, but I believe, in general in the history of the country - programme which is dedicated to solving communication problems on national roads. Those 100 towns or 100 cities that get bypasses are narrow throats. There drivers stand in traffic, there drivers stand in congestion, losing very valuable not only seconds, but also minutes, and sometimes even hours, reaching their destination. Hence our decision to eliminate this problem. It's important to remember, too. with a high yield, with a high value of such bypasses for the inhabitants of these towns, because now, when the whole transit of heavy vehicles passes there, and sometimes it is 12, 15 or as in the case of Kalisz or Stargard Gdański 18 thousand. vehicles daily, this is a very heavy burden for the inhabitants of these cities. It is not only a danger in road traffic, but it is also exhaust emissions and noise emissions, which causes very heavy inconvenience, inconvenience and the possibility of normal, free functioning. Once the bypass has been built, the traffic of heavy vehicles will be pulled either to the outskirts of the city or completely out of town. So that, in addition to increasing road safety, the inhabitants of these cities will be able to breathe full of breast-feeding without exhaust gas, without noise and other nuisances, which at the moment, through a very high volume of traffic they encounter in these places. So that the 100 bypasses programme is not only a comprehensive communication and transport problem-solving programme, but it is also a programme aimed at improving the quality of life of the inhabitants of these towns. I sincerely hope that by the end of 2030 all of the 100 investments will be completed. Already, after more than a year of implementation of this programme, I would like to thank all those who carry out these tasks very warmly. I would like to thank the Director-General of the Directorate-General for National Roads and Motorways, and I would like to thank the directors of branches who are directly responsible for these investments. Thank you to the local government, because of course the local government is also needed for this, talking to the public, convincing us to carry out a given task and this helps us in all of this. I would also like to thank all the institutions, entities that participate together with the Ministry of Infrastructure in these road tasks. I hope that we will meet the expectations on the one hand of politicians, parliamentarians, on the other hand of self-government, but above all we will meet the expectations of drivers and the Polish society, who dream of driving safe, comfortable national roads, but also wants the quality of life in their surroundings to improve in their localities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am convinced that the 100 bypasses programme will contribute to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u96	Thank you very much. Sorry, I was drinking coffee and I didn't wear a mask. I'm really sorry about that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem. 57 people have submitted for discussion and 60 minutes are foreseen for discussion. We've established a rule that every person has two minutes... [[No, one minute.]] [[Voice from the room: Wait, Mr. Marshal...]] But listen to me. If you let me drive, we'll find a way out. We've determined that every person has two minutes at their disposal. I have a proposal to reduce it to 1 minute. That way, all people will potentially ask a question. [[Applause]] On the other hand, if we leave the rule of 2 minutes, 30 people will have time to ask a question, and 30 on the second tour will not have time to ask a question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I appeal to... [[Mr. Marshal, the right side applauds you.]] I don't know if it's good for me, but it doesn't matter. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] On the other hand, I ask, because I am Vice-Marshal of the entire Sejm, if you accept such a proposal. Yes? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[How much?]] Okay, so I'm making the rule that it's 1 minute. Let's get to the discussion. The first one came forward... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, hello? Is something wrong? We can, right? [[Absolutely.]] Good. The first report was made by Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for starting the implementation of the 100 bypasses programme as another programme for the sustainable development of our country. This programme is possible because the Government of Law and Justice has a vision and is implementing it step by step. I am very glad that on this list 100 bypasses there is a bypass in my district of Bladownia and Herbów, but there are plenty of such dangerous places, such as Kłomnice commune, where there is a very intense traffic on Route 91, there is a tight building and there are dangerous places, it is a very frequent road, as well as very crowded and on the reserve list Kłobuck. Minister, there was a statement in your statement that there would still be backup bypasses. I hope these two bypasses will be included. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The safety and comfort of travelling on Polish roads are a priority of the current government," said Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure. So how does this apply to the people expected for many years by the Sępólna Krajńskiego and Kamień Krajńskie bypasses on the national road No. 25? These circuits were indeed entered, but still under the PO-PSL regime, for the years 2014 to 2023 to the National Road Construction Programme. The years pass, the average annual daily traffic on the national road in the county of Sępolensk is already 16 thousand. vehicles from the direction of Bydgoszcz, Poznań and in the same towns. These small towns, the Vulture and the Stone, during the holiday season, and even during rush hour, are simply impassable. Lack of security, lack of fluidity of transport, lack of comfort of the inhabitants' lives are the most important arguments which argue that it is high time to start these investments. So what's the schedule for the construction of these bypasses? At what stage is the preparation of the documentation of these investments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will their construction begin? Please respond in writing, Minister. And just a brief question about the Government Road Development Fund. I would like to ask if there is a chance that the municipality of Węcbork will receive funding from this fund also for the construction of the ring road, but on the road no. 241 of the voivodeship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, it's over.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's not prolong.]] [[Let's not take up time. It's taking time.]] [[No, these are important topics, not taking time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, As we learn from the pages of the Silesian Voivodeship Office, only five bypasses will be created in the Silesian Voivodeship. Is that a lot in such a highly urbanized area? The Minister and the ladies and gentlemen will answer for themselves. At the same time, the inhabitants of Zagłębia expect not only bypasses, but also simple communication solutions in Zagłębie. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! When will the expected junctions be built on national road 86 and on express roads in Zagłębie? When will the sound-intensive screens be installed that the inhabitants of Zagłębia are asking for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u102	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Although the main purpose of my speech is to obtain information on the prospect of implementing the Nakła Śląski and Świerkliniec bypass in the Śląskie voivodship, but on this occasion I would like to draw your attention to a 40 km away from this bypass Elektrociepłownia Tychy, one of the key assets of the state company Tauron Warło. There a few days ago, the vice president was the son of one of the members of the Law and Justice, a graduate of physical education academy, volleyball enthusiast, sports manager and tourism. This is one of the fastest and most brilliant careers in the management boards of the State Treasury companies in the Silesian Voivodeship. Minister, don't you think that wasting public money on wages for such PiS nominates can, as a result, slow down or delay the implementation of this fantastic program to build 100 bypasses? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u105	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister, if you would just listen to me for a moment, because I will not talk, like my previous speaker, about things that are not about the subject of today's current information, but I will be talking about the 100 bypass programme, because this topic, as you can see, is very interested. Even the number of Members who have been voted in is proof of this because everyone wants to ask what is going on, what is going to happen in the place where he lives, where he starts from. And that's what I'm gonna do. Minister! Recently we talked a lot about the communication situation of a small town in Małopolska, which is my beloved Gorlice. Of course, we also talked about a very important case, about the trial girl, but it's next door. Gorlice has no chance to look forward to a solution as big as high-speed roads that could steer us south, but very much await the ring road, for a real (Bell) ring road within Route 28. She's on the reserve list, and as I asked you personally, once again from this place, please so that she can be on this basic list. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your 100 bypasses for 2020-2030 are as real as the promised 100,000. apartments, 1 million electric cars, mass bridges on Polish rivers, construction of powerful ferries or reconstruction of castles. It's all written on the water. All these projects did not survive a hard collision with reality. [[Voice from the hall: What's she saying?]] During one of the events, Minister Adamczyk said that the government bets not only on major infrastructure projects, but also on investments improving local communication. So what about the Beskydy Integration Road, whose construction you're still putting off in time? Recent reports say that the construction works are only expected to be carried out in the years 2027 and this is still in question. I would like to ask if funds were secured for the revitalization of railway lines: No 139 (Dawn) from Czechowice-Dziedzice to the state border in Zwardon, No 97 on the section Żywiec - Sucha Beskidzka and No 190 on the section Bielsko-Biała - Skoczów. [[Voice from the room: This is not the subject for today.]] [[Over time and not about.]] [[Member of the Commission, 19, 20 seconds after the deadline.]] Minister! They're concrete. That's something to think about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u108	Miss, thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the current program... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. President, for a moment, if you would excuse me, sir. You're not helping me. Screaming that someone's two seconds, three seconds longer, someone's gonna cut it short. Let me drive this. You're really not helping me. It's not gonna change anything. I'm gonna do what I'm supposed to do anyway. You're welcome, sir. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Only three bypasses in my constituency, the Kruszwica, Strzelna and Nowa Wielka, are included in the current bypass construction program. I have a question for the Minister: What is the time schedule for preparing and implementing these investments? At what investment stage are they located? In my voivodship there are more towns where investment preparations have been underway for years regarding the construction of bypasses. The previous government has entered into the programme of the Sępólno Krajńskie and Kamienie Krajński. I have a question: At what stage is the preparation of the construction of the Krajńskie Sępólne and Krajny Stone ring roads? For 15 years preparations have been underway for the construction of the Tuchola ring road, the capital of Borów Tucholskie, one of the most beautiful Polish towns. So? [[It's a voivodship road.]] What's the question? At what stage is the preparation of this investment? At what stage is the preparation of the investment Sobork and Mogilna? Mr King, you are from the same voivodship. You should be interested in that question. [[That's why he says it's a voivodship road.]] And I have a question for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The value of the programme is PLN 28 billion. In case of an increase in the cost of construction of bypasses and exceeding PLN 28 billion, does the government plan to increase the funds for this programme? Will it be possible to enter more if the investments fall out of this programme? I would very kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u110	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Eight bypasses are planned in this program for Wielkopolska voivodship. Mr President, a request to put on a mask. Excuse me, I have to get back to my seat. [[Voice from the courtroom: Ask from the point of view.]] Sorry to keep you waiting. In this are the bypasses of Gostynia and Koźmin Wielkopolski. Within Route 12 there is also Jarachevo, which is not included in this program, and it is such a narrow throat. I would like to ask you about the implementation of one of Kalisz's most urgent bypasses within Route 25. There was a certain course. At the moment, studies are underway on a new course. The question to the Minister is whether there is a choice as to the implementation of this investment, given what the local authorities also say in the case of this road, for example the local government of Nowe Skalmierzyc, but also the local government of Kalisz. And a case concerning Koźmin Wielkopolski's ring road. How is she in this implementation schedule? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When Prime Minister Morawiecki drove around Poland in 2019, he promised many things, among others. He promised that the 100 bypasses plan would include the ring road of the town of Circle, extremely necessary. Cost of PLN 30.40 million. A 23,000-dollar city can't afford to have a relationship with her. Then, when the list was presented, this ring road was missing. Mr Galemba said in March 2020 that projects have already been carried out in the case of this ring road. At the end of the year, however, only local authorities left to themselves had to agree to carry out these projects. Stop lying about the Circle ring road and tell me when you're gonna give her the money. [[If the local government...]] Madame, please make it very possible to speak. [[But I'm not interrupting.]] Well, you're reacting and discussing. And if we fire all the saturate cats from the State Treasury (the bell) from the supervisory boards, we would probably have money for more bypasses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u114	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u115	Dear Marshal, High Seym! We have just heard from a Member of the opposition, precisely the Left, a list of needs in terms of road construction. This is actually a list of left-wing negligence and platform negligence. [[Applause]] When we took power, it was $3,000. km of roads. Today is over 1.3 thousand. km of high-speed roads more. We're repairing our predecessors' negligence... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mercy, Member.]] ...such programs as the Government Road Development Fund and the 100 bypasses programme, which responds to the enormous, enormous expectations of local government officials. I am very pleased that the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship will have six bypasses within this program, three bypasses in my district, Brest Kujawski's bypasses, Lipna and Kowalew Pomorski's bypasses. As far as the Brest ring road is concerned, the platform has been masquerading for years of self-government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You lied, you lied. You've deleted Brest's bypass at the last moment. Today we give those people who live there a great deal of hope. These roads will be built. For that, Minister, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u116	And the question? [[These aren't questions, Marshal. According to the Rules of Procedure, these are statements.]] There you go, Mrs. Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The rules for qualifying for 100 bypasses are not understandable. Malbork, for example, has been doing this for 19 years. [[Voice from the room: 19 years.]] In 2006, a large amount of money was spent on STEŚ. In 2007, the option was chosen - not on the list. Kwidzyn is one of the largest cities in Poland without a bypass. The Kwidzyn authorities have been running for the ring road for 20 years. In 2002, the city of Kwidzyn, together with GDDKiA, financed the implementation of the concept. The route of the ring road was established in 2006. Why isn't she on the list? You're proud of the Starogard Gdansk ring road. There is nothing to do, because we have been working for six years - I, from this speaker, have tabled amendments to the budget, interpelations, I responded to the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure - to make sure that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the Minister himself said, 18,000. vehicles pass through the middle of the city, that's transit. You entered the Shuttle Ridge into the 2nd quarter of 2020. This is after the election. I hope you, this government, will not be there. It's easy to promise. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: You will not accomplish this. It's a wish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u118	Here you go, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki has indeed promised the northern ring road of the Circle. It didn't work because it didn't meet the requirements because it didn't connect the national road, it connects to the road. Ah, county. I would like to ask, therefore, whether such an important investment for this local environment, which is decisive for the socio-economic development of the East Wielkopolska and the Circle, can count on the support of a new source of support for local authorities, which is the strategic investment programme for local government units, which is now launched on 1 July, or the Government Fund for Roads of Local Government. Among the eight bypasses in Wielkopolska qualified for the program is the ring road of Grzymiszew along road 72. What is the timetable for the implementation of this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u120	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Five bypasses are to be formed in Warmia and Mazury. The Circuit Writes, Smolajn and Goose, Szczytna, Olsztyn and Dyvit. An important problem is also, Minister, the S5 route to run from Ostróda to Grudziądz. This tour is about to... There are two hallways left. There's one in the area of Iława, the other in the area of Lubawa. I have a question for the Minister because you were talking about this thing, about emissions, noise, traffic reduction and improved city safety. The city of Iława, Minister, is waiting for your dreams to come true, because the city of 40 thousand is jammed during the tourist season. Whoever comes to Iława knows how hard it is to get through Iława. Therefore, I ask the Minister whether, as part of the S5 route, which connects Wroclaw with Grudziądz, with A1, there are planned investments on the S16 (The Bell) on the construction of the viaduct Iława - Kisielice or viaduct in the very centre of Iława. Do you have a plan? Alternatively, it is a connection between S5 and the Voivodship strategy of route 538. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u122	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Hanna Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u123	Dear Minister, I wanted to learn about the implementation of the 100 bypasses in the Łódź voivodship, where, as you know, the bypasses of Błaszek, Brzezin, Łowicz, Srock and Wielenia were planned to be realized. In the Łódź voivodship, she also works as the President of the Łódź Sejm, Mrs Iwona Koperska, who as a fat cat sits on the board of Eko-Location in Bełchatów. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u124	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I had the pleasure of managing the municipality during the time when the PO-PSL ruled, and during the times of the PiS. During the time of PO-PSL there was a local road construction program, the so-called program. Zero, which means zero funds for local roads in local governments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[There's no need to clap, it's better to cry.]] During the PiS period, the local government already benefited from three sources of funding. The Pilski district is the district where local governments use financial resources. Finally, one can deny what the opposition says that only local governments associated with PiS receive funding. Minister! He started a program to recruit applications for the construction of bypass roads in the voivodship roads. The Wielkopolska Marshal's office, envying that the funds go to local government roads, submitted not three but five applications, including four applications (Dzwonek) in the Pilski district. I hope that the Pelski district will be appreciated, among others. The municipality of Trzcianka will benefit from the funding and this bypass will be implemented. And in the end, Minister, sometimes don't take advice from Sławomir Nowak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u126	I would now ask Mrs Krystyna Sibinska to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I ask for two bypasses in Lubuskie voivodship: Słubice and Kargova. In 2018 the then head of GDDKiA in Zielona Góra said: Krosno Odrzańskie, Słubice and Kostrzyn are three villages with the highest traffic intensity in our region. That's why I think the bypass is just needed in Słubice. Minister Rafalska and voivode Dajczak promised that there was money for STEŚ in 2019. There's no money, there's no STEW, and there's no Słubice bypass, just like it was in the field, that's it. The people speak straight: the PiS has deceived us. And they promised they would. This bypass is on the backup list. But how can you proceed and say that the most optimistic of possible options is the putting into service of the ring road after 5 years, i.e. 2023. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from that speech, when there's no ID? And Kargova has a complete building permit. Nearly PLN 6 million was spent on documentation, building permits, and nothing is done in this direction. Minister! Please, I'm begging for these two bypasses. They are extremely needed by the inhabitants of Lubuskie Voivodeship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u128	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am speaking on behalf of the Social Committee of the Municipal Basement, people who have organized themselves and are trying to meet Minister Adamczyk in vain and talk about the planned bypass. Circuits, which they do not want in this proposal and which, as they raise themselves, can be a disaster for the Valley of Poprad. Following meetings and discussions with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and document analysis, the residents point out that the construction of the Piwniczna ring road will result in the creation of a transport corridor for large-scale vehicles by the Poprad Valley region and further through the Piwniczna - Nniszek border crossing to Slovakia. This means that through the spa, the naturally valuable areas will pass through the tire every day, which will contribute to the degradation of these areas, will make life more difficult for the inhabitants and destroy the environment. I would like to point out that there is a citizens' proposal that enjoys the support of local authorities (the bell). In this proposal from the Crossword Puzzle there would be car traffic to the transition in Leluchow. Therefore, I ask and ask: Can Minister Adamczyk, who is also a Member of Małopolska, invite a social committee to the Ministry? This written reply will be the shortest answer. That's just setting a date for the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u130	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Łódź Voivodeship five bypasses are planned as part of the construction program of 100 bypasses: in Łowicz, Wieluń, Błaszki, Srock and Brzeziny. What's most worried is the long-term completion of these bypasses. Basic question: Do you have a plan and do you have any indication of speeding up these deadlines? The second point: the work has not started yet, and the fights about the course have already started, among others. in Huntowicz. Could the Minister refer to the comments made by the inhabitants of Huntich regarding the conduct of that ring road? I am also interested that the Minister should provide information on the conduct of the Birkenau ring road. Of course, I am interested in the schedule of work, but I am also interested in the plans of the Ministry concerning those bypasses, which are not included in the plan, and which the inhabitants of the Łódź voivodship (Dzwonek) are looking for, among others. Skierniewic, Tomaszów Mazowiecki and of course Sulejow, who is to have a ring road in the course of the S12 expressway. When is the construction going to start there? I ask, because the promise made by you has long been out of date, unfortunately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u133	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the programme of construction of bypasses is extremely important, while only five are expected to be created in the Silesian Voivodeship. It's amazing how little. Minister! The question is, what about the Beskydy Integration Road, which is also de facto a ring road. What about section S1 Bieruń - Mysłowice, where the state creates a completely absurd ring road instead of building this section to the end? But there is one characteristic bypass that is built by Law and Justice. This is the ring road of honesty, integrity and diligence. This bypass is built of nepotism, laziness and loosening, as President Kaczyński said. This ring road of many activists - fat cats from Law and Justice - arrives at work every day, collects these jobs every day, and the face of this nepotism, as you say yourself, sits among you, Members of Law and Justice. Minister! I have a question about why the government is hiding the real scale of nepotism. But more importantly: Don't you think that this nepotism, this laziness, is the loose conduct that President Kaczyński was talking about in the context of your Members, Law and Justice activists, has a negative impact on the efficiency of building, among other things. The bypass, but the whole road infrastructure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u134	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dziuk. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case, Mrs Urszula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u135	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Me precisely to these 100 bypasses per century of independence. It's listed on the eastern Tarnov ring road. The only problem is that she's in and that's it. I want to ask you what this fund looks like and how the ring road works. Because suddenly it turns out that everything is ready, you could announce a tender in the middle of the year, but the general management says: unfortunately, we will not announce a tender because there is no money for this ring road. And suddenly it turns out, and this is confirmed in his statements by Minister Adamczyk, that the city must pay PLN 338 million to this ring road. How is that possible? Is there a fund to build 100 bypasses or isn't it? 'Cause if it's like you have a fund for your own people, and those self-governments that aren't favorable to you, or you think they're some kind of resource, they don't get the money, then where's that fund of 100 bypasses for a century? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The eastern Tarnów bypass is valued at 517 million. I don't know why so much, but it is. 56% To pay the city and this is your 100 bypass fund. Explain to me where the fund is and where the money is for this construction of the ring road. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Stay in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u136	I ask you, especially government representatives, not to discuss with the benches, because there will be a moment when the Minister has the time. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u137	High Izbo! The plan of 100 bypasses was created before Poland joined the Fund for Reconstruction. For the Fund for Reconstruction, a very important part is the support for improving air quality and energy efficiency. Therefore, there are financial bases to significantly expand the ring road program. I would like to ask about bypasses which are not included in the programme and are essential for Wielkopolska. There are eight bypasses of cities, towns that I will not exchange here for lack of time. Poznań, the centre of the Poznań agglomeration, is ranked 8th on the list of cities with the most polluted air in the world. The third and fourth frames planned since the 1970s, i.e. the bypasses of the city of Poznań, have not been created until today, and even the seeds of the plans for their uprising in the government's work are not visible. That's my first question, and I'm asking you to answer it in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u138	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u139	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Since I'm from West Pomerania, I could be happy with nine bypasses. Thank you very much for these. Fingers crossed, not just words, but specific deadlines and concrete executions. This is one appeal. The second case, Minister, concerns the local government, which with great effort began investments at the Gryfic, Barlinka and Pyrzyc bypasses. I'm asking that we also make those bypasses that are not included on this list, but the work on their construction is already advanced. Together we can talk about our common success. Third thing. Minister, 100 bypasses. There's a lot more to need. I don't think it's worth getting attached to that number. On the other hand, this needs to be extended, because it is clear that local governments are willing to invest together. Together it means better, faster and often cheaper. I encourage such reflection. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u140	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Tracz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Apartments and inhabitants of cities in Poland are waiting for the bypasses. Circuits are needed, but it's very important not to follow the bodies of nature. Unfortunately, many of the planned 100 bypasses in the event of a bad investment process can actually harm local communities and nature. Such an example is Milicz's ring road on the national road 15. Milicz is the heart of the Baryce Valley. These areas are the sites of many species of animals, birds - so-called. Bird paradise. There's fish ponds there, too. We do not yet know the exact course of Milicz's ring road, but we already know that it will run through Natura 2000 sites, ecological corridors, Barycza Valley Landscape Park and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Milickie Pond Reserve. I would like to ask the Minister: Can you guarantee that none of the 100 bypasses will rise contrary to the EU's rule of no significant harm, i.e. it will not harm nature and local communities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u142	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Przemysław Koperski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's go back a little bit in time. It's 2005, the election campaign for the Sejm elections. Politicians of the Civic Platform and Law and Justice jointly promise the inhabitants of my region the construction of the Beskidzki Way of Integration. Moreover, in 2007 Minister Poláczek says: the tender documentation is already in place, we are already on the move, in two to three years' time this road will connect Bielsko-Biała and Kraków. It's been 25 years. In the place where the route is to take place, grass continues to grow, rams and cows graze. Cars don't go there. [[Five years.]] The latest declarations by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways are that you want to build this road in 10 years. That's 35 years. I don't know if you've confused this path with the Sagrada Família basilica, because the people of my region will probably get out of this world faster than they're going to get this investment. My question: When will this road (The Bell), which is also the ring road of Kęt, Andrychow, Wadowice, be built? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u144	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u145	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2020, the first agreement signed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways under the 100 ring road construction programme was the contract for the construction of the ring road on the national road No 79 next to the city of Leipzig. I wanted to thank you very much from this place for this journey. The residents have been waiting for her for many years. We know that the entire transit traffic goes directly through the center of this extremely charming city and is extremely burdensome for the inhabitants. I would like to ask for another two investments very important for southern Mazowsze. It's about the Liberation ring road and the Scaryshev ring road. Are there any concerns regarding e.g. change of the deadline for implementing these investments? I'd like to ask you about another road that is not (the bell) on this program, which is the Ice ring road. Is the implementation of this investment at risk because of COVID? How's it going? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u146	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I looked into this emotional program of 100 bypasses. What's in it? In Appendix 1 we have a list of investment tasks carried out under the programme. The present time. On the other hand, when it comes to the construction date, there is no present time. They will all rise in the distant future. I understand that for the PiS the realization is about writing. Now I know why there is no bypass in my part of the Śląskie voivodship, which is the Western subregion. However, we prefer to build, but we prefer concrete. But as a result, I hope for another annex, which is called: A list of investment tasks - and now - that can be accomplished. So I'm lucky, the ones that can be realized are the ones that are at the end. And that's where Raciborz's ring road was on Route 45. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I have a question, Minister - and I ask you to answer in writing, because your writing is going better than your construction - about the stage at which this ring road can be realized. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u148	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u149	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Brief question about my voivodship, Łódź voivodship. The people of Novosolna have been waiting for years to build a ring road. In April of this year, residents blocked national road 72, blocked roundabouts, rode it free in protest against excessive, dangerous truck traffic in the area. At this point it is also worth adding that the inhabitants of Novosolna have been fighting for the construction of the ring road for almost two decades. In the program of 100 bypasses in the Łódź voivodship five places were selected, they were already mentioned today: Błaszki, Brzeziny, Łowicz, Srock, Wieluń. Minister! Is there any chance that the Newsolna ring road will be created within the program? If so, when could construction work begin? If not, why not? And is it possible to listen to the voice of the inhabitants and to accept their requests? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u151	High Izbo! We had, we wanted to talk today about the nepotism of the PiS, the organized plunder of the state, starting with the companies of the Treasury. You chose a safe, seemingly safe subject of 100 bypasses. Safe because it sounds nice, but in concrete terms - this year the construction of three will begin. By 2025, you want to finish 16 until 1/4 is due to end in the years 2029 and 2030. So what's the pace? And here's the question of why this program is so miserable and sleazy, Minister. In our day, we returned about 10 bypasses a year. During this period you also plan to pay back 10 a year, but so far it was better to call it the 85 ring road construction program for the years 2006... 2016... 2026 and 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That would be true, but here we have more propaganda than reality. And one last question. We are the only voivodship - I am talking about Opole - where there are more bypasses on the reserve list than on the basic list. Why is Opole a phenomenon in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: How many entrepreneurs fell in your day?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u152	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question, and immediately I ask you to answer in writing, on the matter of the only ring road in my district in the Silesian Voivodeship - the ring road of Nakła Śląski and Świerkliniec within the national road No. 78. Namely, my question is basically a question asked by the councillors of the municipality of Świerkliniec at the last meeting of the council, where the fourth option proposed by the road designer was discussed and rejected. The councillors believe that this fourth variant in red is bad, harmful, because the bypass should be moving out of the village, not bringing it into it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Besides, this bypass goes through the forested area, so there would be very large environmental losses if this option were chosen. So my questions, Minister, to you in writing, are: First, will this option be rejected? Because these three other proposals are okay. And secondly, what's the planned schedule for the construction of this bypass? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u154	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u155	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In 2013, in Kolbuszowa, in the town where I was mayor, a social committee for supporting the construction of the Kolbusz ring road was established. It didn't work out. He was supported by over 10,000. The votes, he had support from Rzeszow to Tarnobrzeg. Minister! I would like to thank you very much that Kolbuszowa and Nowa Dęba are on the list of construction of 100 bypasses. In Kolbuszowa next Wednesday, we are already conducting a consultation on the corridor, how the bypasses are to run. There are nine variants, we work with local government, we're all very happy. Cooperation with the general management, with the branch in Rzeszow is really great. I would like to ask what is the prospect of a tender in New Dęba, because we are all waiting for this ring road as well. Minister! Thank you very much again. And I ask my colleagues from the opposition - you know very well that we need to talk about the future, not the present. Minister Grabarczyk, very experienced, knows that the bypass does not arise within one year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u156	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Ionski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the western ring road of Łódź - S14. She is built for almost PLN 1350 million in two episodes, will be paid in two instalments. But it's built, and it's good. However, I am asking about the reunion to the third largest city in Poland, I am talking about the node of the Theophiles. There is no exit to the city of Łódź in this project. We're getting information that's political. You said on the committee that if the city decided to renovate Szczecińska Street, which is an access point for this reunion, the Ministry would decide to build this reunion so that drivers could go to the city. Notabene is probably the only bypass of the city from which you will not be able to go down to this city. A quick question, Minister. The city declares that it has money, and now the question is, what are you going to do, build it or not? I ask for a specific answer, because the inhabitants of Łódź are waiting for it, but I think that also residents of the whole Poland, because we are talking about the highway ring of the city, which is centrally located. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 100 bypasses with a total length of 820 km will be completed as part of the bypass program. This will require an investment of PLN 28 billion. This is a very big challenge. My question is: Will other road investments be stopped or will they be implemented? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u160	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u161	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Coalition has proposed that we discuss nepotism in the PiS. We wanted to tell you how to combat nepotism effectively. You chose the subject of 100 bypasses, okay, but you're using false data. I'm sending everyone to the web site Interesting numbers. en. It's a site run by independent authors. Between 2007 and 2015, a total of 3442 km were built, in the years of the PiS government, 2015.2020, 1372 km were built. This is for those Members who have confused the data. You also confuse the data in the case of this flagship Polish Load document. On page 57 of the Polish Load there is a map (The bell), on which the navy blue is marked the existing roads. We are looking at this map in magnification - the A4 motorway does not exist. [[Applause]] High Izbo, the A4 motorway does not exist - from the end to the end, from the western border to the border with Ukraine. The S17 road does not exist, the S8 road between Łódź and Warsaw does not exist. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Important parts of the S7 expressway do not exist. That's what your truth looks like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u162	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Hreniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the completion of the programme of construction of 100 bypasses in the Wrocław area, we will eliminate a significant part of the communication problems faced by the county cities. The only thing left to realize is the Shooting ring road, and I believe it will happen quite quickly. In front of our eyes, as far as the development of transport infrastructure is concerned, there is a civilization leap, and investments that have been expected by the inhabitants for decades. Within the framework of the government program, three bypasses were planned in the Wrocław district: Oławy, Milicz, Międzyborza, and additionally a small bypass of Trzebnica. Equally important, I hope that also subsidised by the government, will be the ring road Obornik Śląskie along the voivodeship road. All bypasses, as far as the Wrocław area is concerned, are implemented under the programme at the stage of development of the project documentation. And I ask from this place that the Ministry and the General Directorate keep up the pace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u164	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government program of construction of 100 bypasses, as many programs of the government of the United Right, balances Poland's development. In the days of the previous government, PO-PSL, in the polarization of the development of large agglomerations there was no diffusion of district-dominant Poland. Sustainable development reached cities, towns, Polish villages. As a Member of the Brightest Republic of Poland, I would like to heartily thank the Government of the United Right with Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki at the head. Last Tuesday, at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, we discussed a government document on road safety, which shows that a large number of accidents are decreasing from year to year. This is also the result of a large number of kilometers of new roads, remodeled roads. In the south-western part of my voivodship, Pomorskie voivodship, there will be built bypasses of Brzezia, Człuchów (Dzwonek), in reserve there is a bypass of Czerska. I would also like to talk about the ring road of Starogard Gdansk, which the late Member has been very keen on. Jan Kilian, which was his dream. Thank you so much for making this ring road. The day he died, I called on her to wear his name because Janek, my friend, deserved it. [[Applause]] Minister, in your statement, you spoke of the reserve. I am very pleased, Minister, that there will be a reserve as far as possible. I run very, very hard against the Czerska ring road along DK22, a very large road. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u166	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Szałabawka. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u167	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I will agree with the opposition, which says that the scale of needs is enormous, but I will tell you why there is such a great scale of needs: because the scale of negligence from the time you ruled is simply gigantic. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] If you were doing what you were supposed to do, we wouldn't have any problems like this right now. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Świętokrzyskie voivodship is concerned, I will replace the bypasses of Chmielnik, Osieka, Starachowice, Wąchocka, Morawica. If we add to this the Abatov bypass, which the inhabitants have waited for many years, and where the work is already beginning, we will add work on the national road 73, on the road S74, we will add a small bypass of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, where money is also found at this moment, when we, Law and Justice, rule, will remain nothing else, Minister, as to say: thank you very much for what you are doing on the roads in Świętokrzyskie voivodeship at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, of course, there are needs, ladies and gentlemen, which is why I would like to ask the Minister what happened to the large ring road of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski. Local government officials, entrepreneurs and residents are also waiting for it. If this can be implemented, it will be a really big deal. And that's the question. Maybe we could plan a highway like a highway to heaven - a highway to reason. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Then those who talk about things that aren't relevant to this discussion might understand what we're talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u168	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mariusz Trepka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This heated discussion shows that this programme was very much needed and that the Government of Law and Justice introduced it. Ladies and gentlemen, these needs are actually much more, and we all see them, while this programme already allows to reduce these needs. Minister! Here I would like to strengthen the voice of my colleague and my colleague from the Częstochowa district regarding the Kłobuck ring road and thank you for the ring road Herb and Blacliny. All residents need better access, less burdensome in particular localities. I would like to ask that such a program be created also for the voivodship roads, because on the voivodship roads, in the town of Myszków - this is my county town (Dzwonek) - such a bypass will also be, it is very necessary. So, thank you so much for the Metal Room and Herby, I'm asking Kłobuck to move it on this list. And hopefully this realization will be as quick as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u170	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Starowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the five bypasses that will be implemented in the Podlaskie Voivodeship. I would also like to stress that two bypasses are actually after the tender and the implementation process has started. So you can see that we don't promise, we do. [[Applause]] I would first of all like to thank the Minister for Via Baltica and Via Carpatia express roads. The Civic Platform simply did not want these express roads, and our government is implementing these investments. First of all, I would like to ask about one bypass that will be implemented under the programme. This is the construction of the Zamborov ring road. At what stage is she now? Because I know some work has been started. I would also like to ask whether the Government of Law and Justice intends to carry out further bypasses, e.g. Kolno, Grajewo or Mońki. I know that during Via Carpatia and Via Baltica expressways there will be many of these roads, the bypasses of our cities, for which I thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warecha, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u173	High Izbo! Minister! Under the PO-PSL regime, residents and local government officials of four subcarpathians, Pilzna, Brzostku, Kołaczyc and Jasła, demanded the removal of transit traffic from their town centers. They justified these demands by improving road safety and capacity. It should be added that on this section, where tire runs from Kielce and Tarnow to the border crossing point in Barwinek, the traffic is similar as on the motorway of Dębica - Rzeszów. The expectations of the inhabitants are materialised only in the favor of the governments of the United Right, the ministers of infrastructure, us, the parliamentarians, including the active support of Mr Bogdan Rzońca, as well as the Jasielsk, Obama and the mayors of these cities. Four 25 km long bypasses are planned to be implemented under the government's 100 bypass programme, are at the stage of preparatory work. Minister, please answer: How advanced are the preparations for this huge and extremely important investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u174	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister was polite to mention Kalisz as a city, which is the only city in Poland of this size without a ring road. I thank you for the other seven bypasses in Wielkopolska, because eight bypasses are quite a big achievement in terms of plans and implementation by 2030. However, there are two important issues. Firstly, in April 2018, the President of Kalisza met with parliamentarians, not only the Law and Justice, and we discussed several options, we approved the third option, which was also the highest in 2020 by ZOPI, namely the third option of the ring road. For me and for many inhabitants of Kalisz, but also for parts of Skalmierzyc it is incomprehensible to force the city authorities and the municipality of Skalmierzyce variant four, so-called. S, which pushes Kalisz's ring road into the city limits, denying the idea of the ring road as such. Therefore, I have a hot request (the bell) to lean on the proposals of the inhabitants of Kalisz, parliamentarians, not only of the Law and Justice, concerning the third option. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u176	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I represent the land of Lubuskie, from which five bypasses were included in the program of 100 bypasses, for which I thank you very much. But I would like to point out, Minister, that local government officials, of course, working with the Ministry, which is very desirable, at the same time as they are embezzling from the public narrative the contribution of Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice to this work of building bypasses. In view of the above, this is a more appeal to self-government to be honest in their narrative. 30 years of residents of Krosna Odrzański waited for the construction of the ring road, and finally it becomes a fact. At the same time, we have a reserve list. The reserve list includes, among others: the city of Słubice, which is the gateway for Europeans to Poland. Therefore, also on behalf of the inhabitants of Słubic, I ask for support for this investment (the bell), as do the other four from the reserve list for the land of Lubuskie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u178	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u179	Dear Marshal, Minister! How much we need this program to build 100 bypasses, this discussion and the level of emotions that accompany it. We all agree that moving beyond small towns, beyond larger towns, is a prerequisite for the safety of the inhabitants, contributes to improving the climate. We all know that, but it was the government of Law and Justice that put in place a 100 ring road construction program and has been implementing it consistently for a year. Minister! Since the map of Poland includes the bypasses planned also in the Małopolskie Voivodeship in Tarnów County, and one of the Members mentioned that there are problems with financing this ring road, I would ask you very much to explain to me why these problems occur. The question should be addressed to the representatives of the option that you represent. [[Voice from the hall: But this is your 100 bypass program.]] I would like to thank Minister Adamczyk very warmly at this point for the consistent implementation of this programme. I would also like to thank Minister Adamczyk for the fact that the long-awaited Brest ring road, which is not in this programme, but is very much needed, is the first stage of the construction of the court, is implemented and will be implemented. He's hoping that the whole jury will be up in a little while. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You will ask in Tarnów where the money is for this ring road.]] [[But why aren't you giving money?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you, Minister, about Kłobuck's ring road. Kłobuck, a county town, crosses virtually the middle of the national road no. 43. In this place, in the centre of Kłobuck, this road crosses with the province road 492. As the Minister said, he meets all traffic conditions, accidents. The perimeter would also open new investment areas. So I call for this bypass that's on the reserve list to be implemented. Thank you for the Herba - Metallurgy ring road. This is a very important investment, a road with a very high volume of traffic. I ask you to answer the stage at which it is to prepare the construction of this ring road. To conclude, I will say this: The platform once had the password: Poland under construction. All they have left is the password, and we're building it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And you're walking.]] [[At least tell me the truth, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u182	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska. I would like to ask the honourable Member not to lead the discussion from the benches. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Three bypasses will be built in my constituency as part of the 100 bypasses: the Głogów ring road along with the new crossing through Odra, the Ducky ring road on the national road no. 3 and the Legnica ring road on the national road no. 94 is the most important one for me. Currently, this road is moving through the old Legnica building and the new bypass, which has been mentioned for more than 20 years and no government has leaned over it, it will not only bring out transit traffic from Legnica, but also the internal movement of residents to work in the Legnica Special Economic Zone and the Legnica Copperworks. I am glad that these bypasses will be implemented, and at the same time I have a question about the stage at which the individual bypasses are implemented (The Bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u184	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Malik. If there isn't, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The programme for the construction of bypasses is in a sense different from national roads or other roads, as the Minister pointed out. The construction program of the bypasses is focused on the locality. The aim is to help a given locality with the discharge of traffic without the negative impact of traffic on the locality. I wanted to ask you, Minister, if this approach will also apply to other investments such as national roads, voivodship roads. Will the road through smaller towns, the middle towns (Dzwonek) make it difficult for these towns to develop? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u186	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u187	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Government program of construction of 100 bypasses is a program long awaited by Poles and Poles. Thank you and I am glad that Ciechanów bypass is included in this program on the national road no. 60, as well as the Łącka bypass, long awaited by the inhabitants of my area. I've been through this episode many times, I've been trying to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, this will increase the attractiveness of our area as well as road safety. New jobs will be created as well as Polish construction companies will be able to develop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u188	Thank you. I would now like to see Mrs Beata Arrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Lublin Voivodeship has been waiting for further decisions on the development and construction of new road infrastructure for years. The subsequent governments did not see the fact that the main transport routes were intersecting in several counties, both east and west of Europe, which makes the volume of traffic very large and more burdensome for the inhabitants. That is why it is so important to strengthen road safety in this section. The construction programme of 100 bypasses for Lublin Voivodship provides for the construction of seven bypasses, including five on the national road No 74. Three of them will rise in Zamość County - the bypass of Zamość, Szczebrzeszyn and Gorajca. It's a long-awaited solution that delights the inhabitants of these towns. Similar solutions are expected by the people of Biłgoraj and Tarnogrod. Minister! I would like to ask: What is the schedule for these bypasses? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u190	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Zieliński will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u191	Of the five bypasses in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, three - Suchowola, Sztabin and Białobrzegi - include the villages along the national road No. 8 on the section Białystok - Augustów. This is a good one, Minister, to respond to the sudden communication problems on this road. But I ask you to answer the question: Do the mileage and parameters of these bypasses take into account the need to include this road on section Białystok - Augustów - Racka in the expressway network? The problem is known to the Minister, and we have discussed it many times, but in the context of today's discussion I must repeat this question. Secondly, please inform about the planned route of the bypass of the village of Białobrzegi near Augustów and so-called. the eastern Augustów ring road in the context of the need to connect road 8 with S61 in Raczki, as I have just mentioned, and the emotional and controversial future function of the Augustów - Sejny road through the Augustów Forest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Given the multifaceted nature of this case, I ask the Minister to respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u192	Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u193	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the implementation of bypasses in the Lublin Voivodeship within the S74 national road. I mean Janów Lubelski, Dzwole, Gorajec. I've been working for these investments for many years. I recall the years 2005-2007, when some of these investments were to be created under the Eastern Poland programme. Unfortunately, in 2007 we lost the election and the hearing about these investments went missing. Thank you to the government... [[What about A4? And the S17? And the S8?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] Mr President, I would very much like to ask you not to disturb me. ...thank you to the Minister for returning to these investments. We're looking forward to a quick implementation. I'd like to know about the advancement of these tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u194	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Kozanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u195	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, The government programme of construction of 100 bypasses, which was announced in April this year, is a program for which Poles and residents of all cities and towns have been waiting for a very, very long time. I am thinking here especially about bypasses in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, especially in Strzelno, Kruszwica and Nowa Wielka. It was only the Government of Law and Justice that really leaned on the needs of the inhabitants and on the construction of such important road investments. This is especially important for the safety of both drivers and residents, cyclists, pedestrians, because first of all transit traffic will be carried out from these cities and towns. Minister! I have a question. A lot of work has already been done in connection with the construction of bypasses. At what stage is the construction of bypasses in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship at the moment, especially those places that I called (the bell) at the outset? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u196	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Uruski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u197	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Eight new investments will be created in Podkarpacie as part of the government's 100 ring road construction programme in Poland. The first stage of Sanok's ring road was completed in 2020 and contributed to the unloading of traffic in Bieszczady and the development of the city. As part of the programme, the second stage of the Sanok bypass is planned, as well as the Piast Space bypass. The planned road linking Sanok with the S19 express road, on which the authorities of district and municipal authorities of the south-eastern part of the Podkarpackie voivodship signed a letter of intent in October 2017. Therefore, the question is: What is the state of preparation for the second part of the Sanok ring road, as well as the Piast Sea ring road, and what is the chance for a quick implementation of the road connecting Sanok to the S19 expressway? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u198	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, I had a specific question prepared, but I have to refer to the speech of a Member of the Opole Land who claimed that there are no investments related to bypasses on our land. Mr. Speaker! I'm sorry you're not here, but maybe you'll hear it. Thinking, devoted. Niemodlin - in realization. Kędzierzyn-Koźle - in realization. In the implementation there are also Prudnik's bypasses, Lędzin, Siedziny. The 100 bypasses are also included in the programme... [[And the Curly made?]] No, sir, Kędzierzyn-Koźle east. [[Done.]] You know Deputy Minister Jarmuziewicz well... [[And the judge?]] ...who was famous in Opole because when you come to him and talk about something, what can I do? I can't do anything. [[Voice from the room: But don't disturb me.]] 6 years of rule of law and justice - nine bypasses, including three bridge crossings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Members of Parliament from the opposition! You've experienced collective blindness, and you don't see what's really happening in your circles. It's gonna be hard to find you an eye doctor. [[Voice from the room: That's very good.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Patryk Wicher will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say this: Małopolska, especially southern Małopolska, Minister, has had a wonderful program, for which we thank you very much - seven bypasses in Małopolska, and in southern Małopolska it is Limanowa, Nowy Targ and Piwniczna. This arrangement, the removal of transit traffic from and around these towns or the improvement of traffic to tourist destinations between Limanowa and Rabka or New Exhibition And even if we were buried and not only, this is what we've been waiting for for decades, we couldn't wait, my dear ladies and gentlemen, in our territory. Minister! My questions are going in the following direction, because really this programme is needed, it was expected, because there was a very large delay: Is there any chance that it would be extended by further bypasses in the perspective, say, of the coming months or years, whether from savings or from new funds? I'm especially talking about New Snot. Nowy Sącz, who will have the entrance of the courtesan, on the other hand will have a ring road to the cellar, needs this layout in his territory to make it (the bell) complete so that it does not enter this movement into the New Sinclair. So, Minister, would you be able to introduce this investment into the program? Since there are also spa towns like the Piwniczna, I would like to ask if it would also be possible to evaluate the TIR traffic, which will possibly take place on such new stretches of built roads, because it gives rise to some controversy there. If the Minister is unable to answer right now, I would ask you very much in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u202	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Rychlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are on 28 June 2018, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk is coming to a corked Wieluń for a meeting with residents on current issues concerning the Law and Justice programme, but this meeting has been dominated by the need to build the second ring road of Wieluń. We are on 19 June 2020, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk is coming to Wieluń and signing an investment programme for the construction of the bypass of Wieluń. We have May 2021, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways presents options of the ring road, which of course also arouse emotions and some comments of the inhabitants, but I am convinced that this will be achieved. I say this in the context of this manipulation and the lies of the opposition state, who claim that this program is just PR, that this is not real action. Ladies and gentlemen (The Bell), even a child in early school knows that the shortest construction of the ring road lasts, and the documentation itself lasts for a long time. The examination of the growing period of plants or animals is a year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, look at what you have achieved, and perhaps you will give us the number of entrepreneurs who, through the construction of roads and highways, have closed down their businesses, and often ended in tragic events. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u204	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Moskal. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm not registered.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Every infrastructure program deserves recognition. Increases safety, there are social expectations, increases comfort and this construction program of 100 bypasses fits into it. But as we hear here, there are some concerns about whether this programme will be properly implemented. Minister, are there any financial or locational risks - because here such doubts were - the construction of any bypass that are on this program? And a very detailed question that my colleague had already asked: Is there any threat to the construction of the ring road on the national road 73 Pilsno - Brzostek - Kołaczyce - Jasło? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u206	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Ławniczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Greater Poland will be built in the 1920s. The 21st century eight bypasses on national roads, four of which are located in southern Wielkopolska. These are the bypasses of Kalisz, Krotoszyn, Gostynia and Koźmina Wielkopolski. Five more bypasses are on the backup list. In addition, within the framework of the national road construction programme for 2014-2023, with a view to 2025, the southern ring road Pleszewo will be established, which will be a link between the future S11 and the national road No 12. In June this year. a tender was concluded for the implementation of the Gostyni ring road. This is a good example of cooperation between local government and government units, in this case with the branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Poznań. In this connection, I have a question: What are the chances of launching the investment process with the bypasses on the reserve list? Because documentation of projects such as the Jaraczew ring road in the Jarocin district or the Leszna ring road, both within the national road no. 12, are largely advanced at the level of the corridor study thanks to the involvement of the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u208	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u209	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One of the members of the PiS appealed: the highway to reason. And I appeal to the Members of the PiS: the highway to memory. For 8 years, 885 km of motorways were built. To PiS: in 2017 - 0, in 2018 - 0, in 2020, until May - 0. Only in 2019 - 58 km. [[Applause]] Highway to reason. In 2007-2015 built roads - 3342 km, 2015.2020 - 1372 km. Highway to reason. Are 3300 more than the 1300? More. [[Applause]] Highway to reason. You have a budget of 28 billion for these 100 bypasses. The Minister from Podkarpacie remembers perfectly. A4 motorway in Podkarpacie - 10 billion. It's a memory bell. [[Applause]] One more thing. The president of PiS arrived in Podkarpat before the elections to Rzeszow and promised the southern ring road. You were there, too. Where's the ring road? Minister, where's the president's application? South perimeter. We're waiting for the South Rzeszow ring road because it's not eight years old. [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: How long does it take...?]] Eight bypasses. There's no southern ring road. Thank you very much. Ex-Leniart Voivodeship. I expect answers in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u210	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Janów Lubelski's perimeter is extremely desirable, very expected by the inhabitants, but you have chosen the worst variant, a variant running through areas of intensive single-family and economic buildings, through historical areas, through medieval cemeteries. Over 700 people from White First and White Second signed against this option. From this point of view, I would like to appeal to the Minister: choose the option that the residents indicate, the option that does not destroy their homes, farms and lives, the option they are asking for - because this bypass is meant to be for people and not for the interests of local groups. I ask you to consider the voice of the residents. Today you moved the bypass by 80 m (The Bell) to bypass the oldest medieval cemetery in Lublin, but this does not settle the matter. You build people a road 8 meters from their homes, tear down their farms, tear down their lives. I ask the Minister to finally respond to my next interviews and that the GDDKiA meet with people and conduct a normal public consultation. You can't treat people like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u212	Thank you very much. This speech concludes Question Time. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Peter King.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I was called by the name of the Left Member from my district. I could have expected someone outside Bydgoszcz from outside the Bydgoszcz land to say, "Oh, that bad fellow from the Bydgoszcz land, because you have so many investments there. However, it turns out that a member of the Bydgoszcz land appears in front of the High Seym and seems a little... I must defend my fellow Member from you so that you do not feel that my colleague has problems with seeing reality. [[I'll defend myself. Don't defend me.]] [[Answer the questions.]] The facts are as follows. During the SLD for Bydgoszcz and Bydgoszcz, no infrastructure investment was made. For this, we were eliminated by the medical academy, as the only one in Poland. Under the rule of the Platform, no infrastructure investment was made in Bydgoszcz or on Bydgoszcz land, except that the railway station PKP Bydgoszcz Główna was rebuilt - it was rebuilt so that at the moment the fifth platform had to be extended because it was too short and the trains did not fit on it. As vice-president of the Sejm Committee on Infrastructure, I can say that we did not have so many infrastructure investments in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and the former Bydgoszcz voivodship. I wanted to thank the Minister publicly because we have talked about this many times. I'll remind you the facts, the hard facts. In the programme of construction of national roads and motorways we have included the construction of the Sępólna Krajńskiego ring road and the Krajński stone - this is the first fact. In the program we are talking about today, that is the 100 bypasses program, we have a Strzelna bypass - a town which is famous throughout Poland, because it is run over by tractor saddles - the New Great Village bypass and the Kruszwica bypass. If that's not enough, we'll end up building the S5 and in June we'll get a full passover. I will remind you that Bydgoszcz is one of the largest cities in Poland, if not the largest, which still do not have full communication with any express road. Moreover, we have finally managed to obtain funds, and this is a historical work, and to announce a tender - this is probably a real concrete one - for the most awaited road in this part of Poland, i.e. the road S10 between Bydgoszcz and Torun. A member of the Left asks for the Tuchola ring road. It is I who answer to Mr Tucholi: the Tucholi ring road is within the voivodeship road, and the misfortune of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship is that it is ruled by either the Left or the Platform. At least build this one bypass as we build so many. [[Applause]] [[But you have excuses.]] This is the first reference to this. Through the Bydgoszcz land, I wanted to show you what a significant, qualitative change we have made. In conclusion, I wanted to thank the Members of Law and Justice first of all, because unfortunately, the truth is that - I say it with regret - that the majority of the votes on this programme, concerning specific investments, specific bypasses have just fallen from my club. So thank you for that. [[Applause]] To sum up, the government's 100 bypass programme will certainly increase road safety in our country and reduce traffic in different localities, which will improve the comfort of life of Poles. Clean air, less noise and improved capacity of the entire road network will also be an important effect of the programme. In April of this year, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the establishment of a multi-annual programme called the "Construction Programme of 100 Circuits for the years 2020-2030 '. Nearly 28 billion PLN will be allocated to the implementation of the investment. The programme will focus on the bypasses of localities located outside the TEN-T network, i.e. are located in expressways and motorways. The construction will be financed by the National Road Fund. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk has announced the start of the implementation of the government programme of 100 bypasses for the years 2020 to 2030, showing the location of these investments. The total length of all bypasses shall be approx. 820 km. Minister, we just keep our fingers crossed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was a hot, lively and emotional discussion, and I thank you for it. Thank you for the substantive questions, those that actually referred to the substance of the case, to the subject matter of current information. Thank you for the non-essential ones, too. I understand this ritual, which, in particular, Members of the opposition and Members of the opposition must perform in the Seym Chair. I'll split my answer in two. The first part will be the information section that answers the general questions, the general issues that you have raised. The second part will be educational, but some information or some things need to be clarified. Minister, this isn't a class for you to lecture, you just have to answer questions, so please don't share... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: But, Marshal...]] Excuse me, Mr. Messengers, let me tell you. [[We're not messengers, at least I am.]] There is no possibility that the Minister will instruct Members. At best, the relationship can be reversed. And there's no teaching part, there's just a part of answering questions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He too...]] [[Voice from the room: Minister explained...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But the Marshal cannot decide what the Minister, who is an MEP, says.]] You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Mr. Marshal! But you're talking about teaching, not me. I didn't use that word at all. It's Mr. Marshal... Well, why don't you take a look in the dictionary and see what didactics mean, and now answer the questions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: And I confirm my word. [[Dydactism.]] [[But we very much ask that Members of the opposition understand...]] Dydactism is also needed in this case. [[Voice in the O.R.: Answer the questions.]] I'll answer, calm down. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the information part before I go to the other one. In addition to the construction programme of 100 bypasses, there are two other programs. The first is the National Road Construction Programme, which focuses mainly, but not only on the implementation of express roads, but also on motorways. We finish A1, we finish A2, we eliminate the longest staircase in the world, i.e. A18, build S7 north of Warsaw, build S7 north of Krakow and south of Krakow, build Via Carpatia, or S19 between Rzeszow and Lublin, finish S3 both in the Lower Silesian voivodeship and in the West Pomeranian voivodeship, build S6, linking Szczecin with Gdańsk, and in Gdańsk or the whole Tricity Metropolitan Circuit Tricity, build S61, the first episodes of this route will be completed next week, international route, build in Silesia S1. So that it is a number of investments consisting in the construction of high-speed roads, which are also bypasses, which you asked about here in part. These tasks are being carried out. And another program: Government Road Development Fund, which aims to support the construction of bypasses in the lines of voivodship roads, as well as district roads. The selection of requests for support of bypasses in voivodship roads was carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure. I would like to thank all the parliamentarians and all the Members, the senators, who increased the funds from this fund last year. Voivodship, but also cities on the rights of the county could submit applications. Such applications have been submitted. We're finishing their analysis. We will want information to be given to the public in the next three weeks about those tasks that will be supported. So that it is an expression of the interest of the Government of Law and Justice to also support local government investment in voivodeship roads, i.e. in these lines that we do not manage. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the specific issues that were raised, the real honey for my heart was the speech of Minister Caesar Grabarczyk. If a man with such experience, after 4 years of serving as Minister of Transport in his speech, accuses that the A4 motorway was marked not in black, but in gray color... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and stresses this as the most important problem in road construction, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy, [[Applause]] I really am a happy man after more than two years of being vice-minister of infrastructure. Minister! I bow low. By staying at the A4 motorway, I would like to say that it was written by you as part of the National Road Construction Programme 2008-2012 as the one to be prepared for the European Championship in Poland and Ukraine. Of course, she wasn't ready until 2012. Few of this, she was not prepared for the next European Championship in 2016. We had to finish it and put the last episodes in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship into service. [[Applause]] So if we're talking about delays in the investment process, it's a highway. A4 during the Citizen Platform and PSL governments is the best example of this. And another teaching part. One of the messengers asked about Tarnov's ring road. In fact, this bypass is included in the construction program of 100 bypasses. According to the law, which has been in force for several decades now, the city is the district's road manager, i.e. Tarnów manages all the municipal, district and voivodeship roads on the administrative borders, also by national road No 73. Therefore, in 2008, not in our time, an agreement was signed between the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and the City of Tarnów on the joint initiative - I stress: a joint initiative - the construction of the eastern ring road Tarnów, within which, according to many years of legislation - I will refer to them again - Tarnów is responsible for the construction of the eastern ring road within the administrative borders of the city, and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways outside the administrative borders of the city. We are prepared to implement this agreement, we have the financial resources prepared for it, only the question of how President Tarnow will behave here, how he will approach his commitment or the commitment of the authorities of 2008. I hope this commitment will be fulfilled. We have good examples of this type of cooperation. I can rely on Wałbrzych, on the construction of the ring road within the national road No. 35, when within the administrative boundaries of Wałbrzych this investment was in fact and financially responsible for the city, and beyond the administrative borders of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Those are the laws, we apply those laws. We can't limit local governments here. I hear you're fighting for local government freedom, so that local governments can carry out their tasks. [[Applause]] The way they like it. We do not want to interfere in this sphere and we do not want to interfere, but we are, all the time emphasized, ready to co-finance the construction of the eastern ring road of Tarnow in the part for which the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is responsible in accordance with the law. [[So the ring road fund is fiction.]] Next thing you know, it's Newsolna. There was a question about Novosolna on national road 72. Newsolna is a district of Łódź. In the Łódź district, is the Ministry of Infrastructure supposed to solve communication problems in such a direct way? Oh, no. As I said, cities on the rights of the county, and Łódź is also a city on the rights of the county, manage the entire road infrastructure, of course excluding the network of highways, i.e. highways and expressways. [[Voice from the hall: This is not a city.]] That question, as I understand it, was directed against the passivity of the city... [[This isn't a city. This isn't the capital...]] ... Łódź, because as far as I know, Novosolna is a district of the city of Łódź. [[Minister, this is not a city.]] So that we have also dealt with such examples: the questions to the Minister of Infrastructure or even the accusations addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure were really not intended to explain the situation, to show the problem, but were intended to be blunt... [[The problem is Janów Lubelski.]] ...a blind attack and an attempt to undermine 100 bypasses. [[Don't yell.]] I encourage you to go to Warmia and Mazury, there is an example of an investment that is already being carried out in relation to these land works, the bypass... [[Janów Lubelski.]] ... Smolajn. Two years from the announcement of the program, this ring road will be... [[The last woman in the room asked, wait.]] ...functiond, will be put into service next year, will relieve the load, will serve both drivers and those who live in Smolajna. I am convinced that every task that we have set up under the 100 bypasses programme will be accomplished. Not only do we have the money prepared for this, but we have great determination, will... [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] ...as well as credibility. We've proven that we can carry out... [[You're the ones who use lies.]] ...road investment. In our day, the network of high-speed roads increased by 40%, from 3,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Up to 4300. [[Applause]] [[Janów Lubelski.]] We are convinced that the 100 bypass programme will be delivered to the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the Łódź ring road, Minister.]] Minister, if you are running out of time, I will gladly extend it if you answer the question of Mrs Janów Lubelski. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Mr. Marshal, I have a list of all 100 bypasses in front of me and a plan for these bypasses. If Mr. Marshal gives me 15 minutes, I can refer not only to Janow's ring road, but also to any other ring road that is... Finally, you would address the questions asked by Members in substance. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[It's all about substance all the time. That's the teaching part you need for the marshal.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...determinated under this program. Głogów Oblast - tender notice: December 2022, date of signature: October 2023, start of implementation: February 2025, completion: December 2027. This is the first bypass. Ducks - tender announcement: 2025, third quarter, signature: 2026, start of implementation: June 2026, end: December 2028. Legnica - tender announcement: May 2024, date of signature: November 2024, start of implementation: September 2026, completion: August 2029. Międzyborz - tender notice: August 2024, date of signature: May 2025, start of implementation: March 2027, completion: June 2029. Milicz - tender announcement: June 2024, date of signature: March 2025, start of implementation: January 2027, completion: October 2029. Oława - announcement of tender: March 2024, signing of contract: November 2024, beginning of implementation: September 2026, completion of implementation: December 2028. Gold Stok - tender announcement: June 2024, contract signing: March 2025, start of implementation: January 2027, completion: end of 2029. Brest Kujawski - tender announcement: December 2024, contract signing: October 2025, start of implementation: August 2028, completion: November 2029. Kowalewo Pomorskie - tender announcement: December 2024, signing of contract: October 2025, commencement of implementation: August 2027, completion: November 2029. Kruszwica - tender announcement: December 2024, contract signing: October 2025, implementation start: August 2027, completion: November 2029. Lipno - announcement of tender: December 2024, signing of contract: October 2025, beginning of implementation of... [[Mr. Marshal, it's on the site.]] [[Voice from the room: But it was supposed to be substantive.]] [[Voice from the room: The substance of the information is such...]] Excuse me. Madame, I am so sorry. Minister, if you thought I was prolonging your time so that you could read from the note about when all the investments were made, then you're wrong, because I wanted you to answer me in substance... [[Voice from the hall: Well, the marshal wanted substantively.]] ...for questions asked from the room, not for you to sit or stand and read the whole table. Then please make it available to the Members... [[A voice from the hall: But you're doing a circus.]] ...if it's not classified information, but not read. [[The voice from the courtroom: But the marshal wanted it.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Mr. Marshal, of course it's not classified information. Members of the House write interpellations, write parliamentary questions, we answer them with pleasure... [[Voice from the room: Make up your mind. Mr. Marshal gets lost: once he says yes, once he does.]] ...and I can also now, out of respect for the High House, answer all these questions. Whatever the marshal thinks. I started, as I understand it, out of respect just to... If there's a question about Janów Podlaski... [[Lubelski.]] ...or Lubelski, it is not at the same time such information that you will now read about all tenders. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Mr. Marshal, what if there were questions about other bypasses? And those were the questions. Then talk about the others, too, but not all of them. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: That's what I'm doing. That's what I'm doing. [[Voice from the room: But answer questions.]] All right. Then let's move on to Janów Lubelski. [[Voice from the hall: Kruszwica was.]] [[Voice from the hall: Kruszwica was still there.]] [[Voice from the hall: Zambrów.]] [[Voice from the room: Continue reading because we want to know.]] [[The voice from the hall: I asked about nature...]] Janów Lubelski - announcement of the tender - September 2024, of course an executive invitation to tender, I am not talking about these earlier preparatory stages, e.g. technical and economic study, environmental study or programme concept, depending on how these investments are carried out, only of course about the announcement of a tender for the implementation work. Conclusion of the implementation agreement - March 2025, start of implementation - April 2026, end of implementation - December 2028 So much for Janów Lubelski... [[Voice from the hall: Zambrów.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u216	I thank the Minister for this substantive response. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[But in corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u217	Current information on the government implementation of the 100 bypasses programme for the period 2020-2030. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, the government's programme of construction of 100 bypasses for the years 2020-2030.In terms of the Opolskie voivodship, it assumes the construction of four bypasses - Brzeg, Lędzin, Prudnik and Sidziny. As a resident of Opole, I know that these investments are needed by our region, but this is only part of the needs of the inhabitants. Does the government intend to set up another new programme to build bypasses on national roads? Or will the programme be extended by further investments? In addition to the funds from this programme, will there also be funds for the construction of other bypasses which are not included in the GDDKiA plan by 2030?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u218	We proceed to item 15 of the agenda... [[But in corrigendum mode, I was called by name.]] Mr... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] Sir, we're already... [[Voice from the courtroom: But the marshal has finished this point.]] [[No, but I did. It can't be like that.]] We're proceeding with a new point. [[Voice from the room: But where are we?]] [[But in correction mode even?]] It's just one person, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] That's because we're already at a different point. [[Voice from the hall: What ring road fund? There are no bypasses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's not a question of color. [[Voice from the room: Color.]] This is a matter of information which sections the government considers built and put into operation in the most important document, with which at the moment after Poland... [[Voice from the room: But this is the end of the point.]] ...like Kolberg once in the country, now you drive with the Polish Lad the Prime Minister Morawiecki. In this Polish Łada the state offered to double the length of sections completed. If you're disabling sections built over 1,000 km from the pool, that means you're declaring that you're going to build a lot less than you need to. That's the first one. There's a reprimand for you because a map like this is a mess. You will check in with the Prime Minister, explain (the bell) why such a mistake was made. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] And one more thing. [[Voice from the hall: You're scaring.]] Nowosolna is a community. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] There is also a part of Nowosolna within the borders of Łódź, but Nowosolna is an independent municipality and please do not underestimate this municipality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński. There you go. [[Voice from the room: What kind of discussion is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because she was summoned here... [[Voice from the room: But what is this point?]] ...Tuchola's perimeter, that's what I'd like to explain as follows. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] [[In the right mode.]] Between 2006 and 2009 in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, the Civic Platform - PiS was ruled by the coalition. In the country, PiS ruled in 2005 and 2007 - it was then announced the construction of the ring road in Tuchola. Today I have the right to ask what stage the construction of the Sępólna Krajński ring road is at and how the construction of the Tuchola ring road is advanced. And I will ask even though some Members say that I am not to ask. I'll ask. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u222	The Minister has told me that the answers to your speeches will be... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: No, I didn't say that, marshal.]] I'm your... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I said I would not go into polemics anymore, that's all.]] [[Minister, I'm asking...]] Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this point. The discussion is closed. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity of Witold Pilecki and some other laws (prints No. 1341 and 1386). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u223	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the joint committees, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of the name of Witold Pilecki and some other laws. This is a government project that entered the Sejm on 29 June 2021. He was given a print number, print number 1341. The joint committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Culture and Media were involved in this project yesterday. The Commission examined the various articles of the draft amendment very carefully. In the course of the work, several amendments were tabled, which were rejected, and in general the wording in which they were proposed was accepted, i.e. they were very precise in terms of legal and legislative drafting. So we are pleased that such a good project has entered the High House. During the work, one substantive request was made - not for this particular draft of the amendment, but for the future, for the activities of the Pilecki Institute. The idea is to increase funds for prizes for people who are descendants of Poles who gave their lives by saving Jews. These descendants and their children, grandchildren or close relatives are now in a very difficult financial situation when they are old. So we thought it was worthwhile to remember the heroism of their ancestors to support them to a greater extent. Finally, the combined committees recommended by an overwhelming majority that the High House adopt a bill amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity of the name Witold Pilecki and some other laws. 33 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 1 abstention. Since, during the joint committee meeting, there was a signal that we will probably, probably soon, be hearing this, that amendments will be tabled, so there is a request that we no longer turn to further work, to the committee, to re-examine these amendments, but that we should consider these amendments today in the voting block. Because it is indeed a very important law that allows the establishment of a branch of the Pilecki Institute in New York. It is very important that in the American territory it is possible to remind Poles of the sacrifice of saving Jews, also to remind them of the sacrifice and heroism of captain Witold Pilecki from the time he volunteered for Auschwitz, and also from later years when he was a solid soldier murdered by communists. So we ask you to consider these amendments if they are tabled today in the voting block. Once again, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Communications and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I recommend that the High House adopt this proposal to amend this important law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mrs Joanna Lichocka, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! After all the words that have already been made here about the amendment of this law, it is actually appropriate to say one sentence: yes, Law and Justice supports this amendment. We want the Pilecki Institute to have as many opportunities as possible to operate outside the European Union. We are very excited about this ambitious project of setting up an institute in New York City and perhaps in Tel Aviv, as well as, hopefully, in subsequent places in the world, where the truth about the Polish fate against the two totalitarians, the two greatest misfortunes of the 20th century, can be presented in a professional manner, consistent with historical truth, based on documents in archives, and will be, like many other countries that care about this, an important voice in correcting lies about our past. It will also be simply an awareness of the international opinion, what happened here on this earth and how we had to face this barbarism from the West and from the East. So that Law and Justice does not make any amendments. We are pleased that this project is going through properly with the agreement of all the political forces in Parliament. It is also a very important signal that there are matters, such imponderabilies that unite the political class. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u226	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Paweł Kowal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees has in fact shown that there are still things that many Members and many Members in this Chamber have in common. But discussion at second reading is also an opportunity to say a few words about the issues that this law is really about. And that's why I'm going back to the issue I was arguing with the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński yesterday. We cannot abstract ourselves from the effectiveness of spending Polish public funds for promotional purposes. That's why I went to the trouble of checking the data and according to my calculations - we will still appeal for it in detail - the Pilecki Institute in the years 2017 and 2020 used 93 million PLN. During the shorter period the Polish National Foundation used up to PLN 254 million. This means, Prime Minister, that the Prime Minister is not here with us - that it is so that there is a big difference in the scale of resources. Of course, the Pilecki Institute looks good on this background. And that's one of the reasons why we're giving him the benefit of the doubt. The second point is our credibility. Today I speak here as a politician and I speak to politicians. I must say that if we go to America and want to promote ourselves as a country that came out, the authoritarian system survived, someone will say semi-automatic, before the war, later German occupation, later the times of totalitarianism, then we must show ourselves whole. We show our history, but the events we are observing today, connected with the attempt to limit the freedom of the press in Poland, connected with attempts to violate the freedom of courts, also affect our image and weaken the functioning of institutions such as the Pilecki Institute. And that is also what honesty tells us today, because in such matters our greatest friend must be the truth. It is difficult to introduce ourselves as we would like, since today we cannot say that everything in Poland is as it should be in a democratic country. Mr. Marshal! We are making, as President Babinetz said, two amendments that have been announced, discussed, and I assume that they will not cause much controversy. The first of these amendments concerns the matter, and it seems obvious to me, in this context, in which we are debating now and in which we discussed yesterday. As an opposition, we want to give credit to institutions such as those undertaken by the Pilecki Institute, with special attention to research on the German occupation in Poland. And here is another comment: in this room we would need a serious and courageous discussion on the whole Polish promotion, because the question arises: Isn't it such that the Pilecki Institute is doing a large part of the activities which the Institute of National Remembrance should have done long ago? The Institute of National Remembrance should realize many of the things that the Pilecki Institute is doing today. So I'm going back to the basics. We give credit to trust, and if we give credit to trust, then we propose that the Pilecki Institute, and now, and after the change of power, present its report every year also to the combined parliamentary committees, so that we can assess it in terms of efficiency in carrying out tasks and effectiveness in implementing the budget. This could also be an opportunity for the discussion I want, i.e. a comprehensive discussion, a resolution, according to clear criteria, about how Poland is promoted. And this can also give the Institute, its authorities, officials in the Ministry, those of the management who are responsible for the promotion of Poland, the promotion of Polish history, an opportunity to discuss with Members of all political forces, an opportunity for this dialogue. I therefore encourage you not to be afraid of this dialogue. I already discussed this amendment yesterday, and today I am making it on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. The second amendment is, in a sense, merely order. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It details the competence of the Institute of National Remembrance in the context of decorations. My last sentence, before we vote, because we will probably vote on it today, is this: we took for a good coin, that it is not for the right hand, neither for the left, nor for the center, that it is for Poland and this is an action on behalf of the Polish state right. And I wish those who are responsible for these matters in the ministry, as well as the management of the institute, to work as if they had not seen the political colors of this or other government, to serve Poland. Only according to this criterion will we assess the activities of the institute and similar institutions, and we will judge harshly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u228	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Joanna Senyshin to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club does not support the government's draft law on amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of Witold Pilecki or any undue haste in the process of this project. And it's not because the cultural committee rejected our amendments. Our left-wing opposition has a deeper foundation. Even when the Pilecki Institute was appointed by the Act of 9 November 2017, it was noted that it would duplicate the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, and even more so - the Centre for Research on Totalitarianism. Mr Witold Pilecki, appointed by the Minister of Culture of 29 April 2016 As this was the case, the Law of 20 July 2018 amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Valour was merged with the Centre for the Research on Totalitarianism. Witold Pilecki. Now another amendment is being made. It is clear that all the changes so far, like the idea of setting up an institute, have arisen quickly, without further reflection and have been created for current needs, including personal needs. The same is true today with the appointment of two subsidiaries in New York and Tel Aviv, although we do not yet know for whom jobs are specifically prepared there, which are expected to cost us 8600 000 a year. zł, because that's all the money was spent on just the wages. Yesterday I did not hear a specific answer, how many jobs are planned and what will be the wage rates, because ministerial explanations focused on criticizing my statement that the Pilecki Institute was conceived as a younger and poorer cousin of the IPN to serve as a liar and forgery of history. The great outrage of Minister Gliński can be said with a proverb: hit the table and the scissors will speak. So I ask again, Minister: Who and how much will earn in the subsidiaries of Israel and the United States? How will the employees of these entities be selected? Will there be a contest? And if so, what are the rules? Is working in these entities part of the PiS resolution on the fight against nepotism, but will we find your families, your brother-in-laws and friends there? Or maybe the most important question is, what exactly are these people supposed to do in New York and Tel Aviv? What are the specific tasks of these troops? Admit what you want to spend over 260 million PLN on in 10 years? You could build three hospitals for that and name them Pilecki, but you'd rather do more propaganda. You prefer spending money without control, which you shamelessly allow in this bill. Prof. Gliński knows very well that it is written in the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 The aims of the Institute, which is to conduct research in the field of historical sciences and interdisciplinary research using tools related to humanities and social sciences, and in particular research, documenting and possessing knowledge about totalitarianism and Nazi and communist crimes in the 20th century, are carried out at universities. If they had gotten the extra millions of zlotys that go to the Pilecki Institute, they could have done so much more effectively. That is why I repeat: the real purpose of the amendment is to give your people more money to make water out of their brains and create more warm jobs for protégés less and less United Right, this time jobs in the United States and Israel. For relatives and friends of ducks there are not enough boards and supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury in Poland, so they want to cross the borders not only of decency, but also of the European Union. The Left Club will not support the amendment of the Act on the Pilecki Institute, but in the future we will be happy to change our minds if the much more harmful Institute of National Remembrance is dissolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzep will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today we are considering a draft amendment to the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. rtm. Witold Pilecki, prints 1341 and 1386. Yesterday, at first reading, we discussed this project in this Chamber, and then we met as members of the Committee on Culture and Media at the meeting. Although several amendments were tabled at this meeting, a substantive discussion was followed up due to the understanding of the meaning of the provisions which were presented. I mean, for example, about public procurement. Why, if subsidiaries are established in the United States or Israel, we will use the public procurement rules laid down for a Member State of the European Union. And this has been explained, ladies and gentlemen, of course yesterday - not always reading the records literally, we could be so sure - but thanks to this we adopted this proposal without amendments at the committee meeting yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the purpose of this change is concerned, we are primarily talking about two divisions, Israel and the United States. As a club, we agree with the intention that we must first of all ensure that in these countries we talk about the historical truth connected with totalitarianism both Hitler and Stalinist, we should talk about it. From here too, Minister, I appeal, and I said this yesterday, that we should also think about places in Eastern Europe. I think that today is certainly difficult, but the Pilecki Institute should also pay attention to this topic. We talked about it, it is very important that the permanent institutional presence of the Polish narrative is present in these key places. Ladies and gentlemen! We also spoke yesterday about a case that may be difficult or maybe even slightly embarrassing, i.e. About the prizes. Minister, through you, I am referring to Prime Minister Gliński to consider increasing the prize pot. Because today I don't know if you guys know, it's only 50,000. Gold. It's not enough. [[Voice from the room: 40.]] Maybe it's worth it, because these people or those who were connected to them are still alive today. It is worth to pay tribute to them, and even in this way in their difficult moments of life express gratitude, because they fought and struggled with totalitarianism, and today we live in free Poland. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PSL - Coalition of Polish and European Democrats and Conservatives, I would like to express my deep respect for the achievements and work of the Institute so far and at the same time ensure that our club will vote in full for these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Bosak, who will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Poland has been participating in something that we can call information war for a long time. In the information war, you have to have tools to fight. It is clear that the decision to establish the Institute of Pilecki is a kind of diagnosis of the effectiveness of the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. that he does not carry out the tasks of representing the Polish point of view in the historical battle on interpretation of Polish history, on the interpretation of Polish participation in World War II, on how Poland was affected by the German occupation, and polemics with an internationally-funded lie thesis about Polish participation in the Holocaust. The Pilecki Institute was established in 2017. It has quite a significant budget - PLN 75 million. There is much to be done for this budget, so the decision to extend the possibilities of the Pilecki Institute's activities beyond national borders seems rational. At the same time, it is worth noting that in order for polemics and actions to be effective, close cooperation between the institute and all other institutions responsible for public diplomacy is necessary, a policy of memory, such as the Institute of National Remembrance, such as the Polish National Foundation, which takes action to reach opinion-making circles in other countries, such as those responsible for public diplomacy and the culture of diplomatic institutions. Cooperation with Polish universities, with historical departments. If we are to argue on historical issues, then historians must speak. For the last 5 years, the PiS governments have not seen this coordination. Moreover, at a time when the government finances the Pilecki Institute, which is supposed to argue with lies, the same government finances researchers who promote completely opposite thesis, and that is sometimes against the facts, and therefore calls from the Confederation for policy coordination in the area of historical memory and building the image of Poland outside the borders of the country, because at the moment these actions are unfortunately inconsistent. We also have doubts as to whether opening physical offices in specific cities is really appropriate. Perhaps it is better to invest in the ability to move around the world, in a team of specialists who are able to organize events in different capitals and move between capitals. Not invest in teams rooted in specific cities, offices, but in maneuverability, because the debate centre is once here, once there, and it is necessary to move skillfully in this debate. There is also no way to fail to notice a certain ineffectiveness of the PiS government in the completion of projects in the area of historical policy. Enough here for examples of still unfinished Polish History Museum or new Polish Army Museum, surprise of the government that we had the 100th anniversary of regaining independence or the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle. I think that in three days we will also see (the bell) once again surprise the government that we have an anniversary of bloody Sunday and that no commemoration has been prepared again in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Hanna Gill-Friday, who will present the position of the Circle of Poselski Polska 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As Poland 2050, we listened to the Polish-Polish War, which started in this room on this project. This really is a good example of what old politicians can do with a case eventually quite simple. It is simply about allowing the creation of new institutions to be financed by the Pilecki Institute. I also wanted to commend the Minister, who is watching over the course of our deliberations, who is taking care of this project in the course of the work on this bill. I must point out that she is trying to convince us, to explain the issues of doubt, and that is why I would like to thank you very much. However, as Poland 2050 we had and we still have a reservation, which we maintain. This is about the public spending regime. In our view, the Act overly loosens this discipline and exempts from public procurement law all contracts below the EU threshold. I understand what that means. This is due to the fact that when you put a building, a museum, buying pencils abroad, it all has to be translated by an expert translator. It means that we simply have a bad law in this area and we should correct it, not pour out a child with a bath and allow him to spend a huge amount of money out of his free hand. So, on the hands of the marshal, I'm making an amendment that removes this possibility with a certain degree of probability. I hope that this amendment will pass, but if it is lost, it is worth leaning forward - I am talking to the government side - about how Polish institutions, not just this institute, spend money abroad and whether we have made it a horror that prevents them from acting de facto. Please, Marshal. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Thank you very much. Just a second. At the beginning of this meeting, I said that because the Circles of Parliament, e.g. our Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, is limited to the possibility of expressing freely, for every minute received I will recall in my statements during this meeting one fat man A PiS cat. Today it is Mr Andrzej Jaroch, Councilman of the Lower Silesian Sejm, who also sits on the board of one of the KGHM companies. In the second minute our circle was taken away - Ms Aneta Niedźwiecka, who is the councilwoman of the Łódź Seymika, and somehow received a function at the Bełchatów Power Plant. She's an organizational specialist now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You have called the Pilecki Institute as an institution that actually duplicates the Institute of National Remembrance. Now you want to expand the work of this institute. Why not an IPN? History is very important, but you don't want to commemorate history, you want to lead your own version of historical politics. The proposed bill is intended to enable the establishment of foreign branches of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Witold Pilecki. Why? For 6 years you have been destroying the name of Poland in the world. Putting another million zlotys into foreign branches of the Pilecki Institute won't do any good. I ask you, how much is this going to cost? What's in it for Poles except to present in the world not always the true version of your story? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In 2018 the High Sejm adopted the IPN Act. This law has caused a huge crisis on the Polish-Israel line. This was argued in such a way that legislation restricts the freedom of research and can contribute to the counterfeiting of history. We claimed that such allegations were unfounded. Despite this, the passed law of the High Sejm changed. The current draft law entitles the Institute to create organisational units established outside Poland, acting as subsidiaries. We heard in this room that a branch of the institute in Tel Aviv will be created. And therefore I have a question to the Minister: Were diplomatic negotiations with the Israeli party because Poland wants to create a subsidiary of the Witold Pilecki Institute under this law (The Bell) in Tel Aviv in Israel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The most important question that arises is: What topics has the Pilecki Institute dealt with so far, which is not the IPN? I'd ask you to name them. In what part of the materials on the basis of which the Pilecki Institute works come from the IPN? What topics will new foreign institutions address? Will their activities be merely propaganda? Since the voter's serious doubts raise the issue of millions of new jobs, I want to ask you how many jobs are to be in New York and Tel Aviv? Are other subsidiaries also planned outside Europe? If so, where? What are the wage rates gonna be? How will (the bell) be selected employees? Are there gonna be competitions? If so, what are the rules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The article raises doubts. 4 and, in particular, Article. 4c. These are subsidiaries in legal form. In general, the purpose of these entities raises various doubts. Detailed records all the more. While the establishment of an entity, the creation of an entity within the body requires the approval of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, then the appointment of such an entity, the appointment of a director will already take place by means of an arbitrary decision of the institute without any supervision, control. Only the Director of the Institute will assess the performance of substantive tasks, but also staff policy and financial policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u245	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask about issues related to HR policy, because this obviously seems an interesting idea from the point of view of researching Polish history and telling about this story. On the other hand, it would be very bad if these new units, which can play an interesting role, were filled by the nominates of the governing party, as we see in the Treasury companies, in ministries. All of this, such a nepotism procedure causes it all to disperse, cease to function, cease to function in the interests of the state, act in the interests of parties and groups of party companions. Question: "What will be the procedures for recruiting people who will work in these units?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u246	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question to the Ministry because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the last 2 years has recorded a 38% decrease in cases related to the occurrence of statements such as Polish death camps, Polish extermination camps, i.e. interventions in terms of this nomenclature, decreased by 38%, in cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance. Question to the Ministry: Does such institutes, the development of the Pilecki Institute, the development of the Institute of National Remembrance make it easier for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to access information? Does this also affect the reduction of such false historical expressions in the international arena? Is this where these institutes work through this cooperation and are they needed? Is the development of these institutes (the bell) needed in the international arena? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u248	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read: the establishment of foreign institutes in Israel and New York is currently under consideration, but the planned regulation aims to create an efficient instrument enabling the establishment and operation of institutes also in subsequent locations. Minister! Please inform us what are the plans for the development of the institute and the location of these new branches in Poland and abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u250	Thank you very much. I understand that Mrs Joanna Lichocka... [[Yes.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for letting me ask you another question. I just wanted to correct my statement on behalf of the club, because I said that there was imponderabilia, which brings together all the political forces, because that's the conclusion I came up with from yesterday's committee meeting when we were working on this project. But today's speech by a representative of the Left, who was a shocking performance, which contained purely Stalinist thesis, led me out of error. So I wanted to correct that most political forces, most political elite understand the essence and importance of the work and operation of the Pilecki Institute, but there is also a group reaching for the legacy of totalitarianism, after the legacy of communism, which does not support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u252	Thank you very much. That was not a question, Madame. Please, Minister Magdalena Gawin, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank all Members for their comments, for their questions, for their reflection on the establishment of the Pilecki Institute outside the European Union. One introductory word, explaining. We're not talking about whether the institute is supposed to have branches outside the country. Here is my word to the Left, who really knows nothing about the institute, never opened the site of the institute, never read the sources, never watched any of the exhibitions - and one very big one is in Kraków Przedmieście - he knows nothing at all. So I repeat once again: this amendment concerns the creation of institutes, but beyond borders, attention, the European Union. We're talking about it. [[Thank you for your instruction.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now there's a collective remark, and I'm going to try to take advantage of the few moments that I have to pass on to you. If you believe that you are unconvinced that you can promote knowledge about our country, culture, history only from Warsaw, then you are in great error. We're doing it way too late. May I remind you that the German Historical Institutes... There must be six or seven of them. In Poland it was established in 1993. In addition, such an institute exists in Rome, Paris, London, Washington, Moscow. In addition, Germany has set up four other institutes, including in the world, all of which belong to the foundation of public law to them. Max Weber. All these humanistic institutes outside Germany are financed by the budget of the Ministry of Education. Such institutions dealing with memory culture, history in Germany is actually very, very much. Another one was literally called this year. You're all showing a certain tendency to bounce back from the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. ask the Institute of National Remembrance to take care of everything. It's impossible. It is simply impossible, as it is impossible to promote knowledge about the culture and history of the country from Warsaw. Short trips to Paris won't make the French know more about us. I am really trying very hard, and I am doing this very, very rarely, but, Commissioner, we spoke yesterday at the Committee on Culture. I just can't speak such a language, I can't listen to the language that you're offering us, which we're supposed to communicate with at all. [[Then don't listen.]] I'm not done yet. I understand you want to measure your measure. I'm just embarrassed about this level. [[Marshal, please instruct the Minister that...]] Please remain calm in the courtroom. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: I was happy about this - and I am very pleased - that most of the members of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Foreign Affairs voted in favour of this project, but we really need to assume good will. And not just good will. First of all, the Pilecki Institute has been operating for 4 years and I am convinced today by Members of the opposition that it is worth investing, that it will serve every Poland, that the maximum that we have been running from the very beginning: not for the left, not for the right, for the whole, is really important. I do not need to prove that the Pilecki Institute does good things because a lot has already been done, but it is difficult for me to discuss with Members of the Left who keep asking about money, jobs, nepotism. How about some examples of nepotism at the Pilecki Institute? Come on, it's been running for four years. I'd like to say, since you're asking me what it's gonna look like to be recruiting for executive positions, that these aren't stand-alone positions. We specially constructed it in such a way that the most important position is the position of the director in Warsaw, who coordinates the whole work. These institutes outside the country cannot become independent. We need to have a coherent policy, which is why the manager is appointed by the director. If you ask what kind of people work there, I hope they're as good as they are in Warsaw, Berlin. I invite all Members, especially those who are unconvinced, especially those who believe that this is a way to draw money so that they may kindly visit exhibitions, come to the Pilecki Institute and, above all, visit Berlin. Last week we had two huge articles in the German press, and these are not items purchased, these are not purchased pages, please look at this. First of all, what Poles will get out of it is what matters. There was a question on the part of the Members of the Left about what the Poles would get out of it. And I think we've already paid a very high price because we didn't do what the Germans did and we didn't set up historical institutes outside the country in the 1990s. That wasn't possible at the time. Poland was a very poor country, Poland was undergoing a very violent transformation and it seemed to us that in a united European Union everyone understood what Poland had been through, but it was not. This knowledge, especially about World War II, is changing with very high dynamics. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, when we are talking about it - Mrs Senyszyn asked this question - on the basis of what sources the institute is working on. Madame, we are carrying out the greatest digitization in the history of German archives, at all, any major. We have already brought 8 million scans of sources from Ludwigsburg to Poland, we are now entering other archives. We have powerful materials from the U.N. archives, brought in from New York, and we have other U.S. materials. So this is a vacuum cleaner that sucks all the source materials about Poland and Poles. There are several such institutions in the world - The Wiener Holocaust Library in London, The Holocaust History Museum - Yad Vashem. We're the fourth such institution. We should have these materials, a historian can't write a story out of his head, a historian must have source materials. There was not only access for employees of the Pilecki Institute, ladies and gentlemen, even employees of the Warsaw, Jagiellonian and other universities had no access to source materials. We will not only do this, as I said, for the Pilecki Institute itself, but also for other scientists. I would like to look forward to a time like this - and this is really important to me - when Parliament and parliamentarians call us, as the Bundestag does, to build a real museum in New York, which will be devoted to the 20th century history of Poland, not only to the period of German occupation, but also to the period of communism, also to the history of [[Fake.]] ...by saying that 1980 was not a year of breakthrough. I wish I could. Apart from these misunderstandings - I still believe that these voices on the left side are misunderstandings - I believe that we have succeeded together. I would like to thank the Members of Law and Justice and, above all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and my boss Prof. Gliński for enabling me to develop the activities of the Pilecki Institute. I would also like to thank all the opposition Members who trusted us and supported the development of the Pilecki Institute and the effective promotion of knowledge about the history of Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u254	Thank you very much. [[Your Marshal...]] Please, Mrs Senyshin, in the correction procedure. One minute. I ask that this be one minute and that this really be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised that the Minister, instead of simply answering questions like her predecessor recently on current matters, has decided to instruct Members, to judge us because it is highly inappropriate. We're the ones who judge the executive authority, which is the government, including you. Your rude behavior and remarks are nothing unwarranted, except for the miscarriage that is in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u256	Please take the floor of the applicant and the rapporteur, Mr Babinetz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! True, fear to speak, since it turns out that the professor, Minister Magdalena Gawin, turned out to be some horrible beast, but briefly, a few words, because we have to proceed immediately with the Committee on Culture and Communications on another matter. I just wanted to add that when it comes to the promotion of Polish culture or Polish history abroad, it is worth to look at the report from the Supreme Audit Chamber, which evaluated these actions for the years 2013 to 2018 in the context of the activities of Polish embassies and Polish institutes, i.e. under the governments of various governing coalitions. Indeed, there are a number of criticisms, but this is a structural, institutional problem, I would say, not political or party. We discussed this in the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is an understanding here from the Ministers of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, as well as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and we will try to change that with regard to those institutions. But I think we should also say, because there were a lot of critical remarks here, such, I would say, unfair, about the Institute of National Remembrance... It must be remembered that the Institute of National Remembrance conducts extensive research, including source, scientific, archival research, talks with witnesses, with descendants of witnesses, not only as regards the anti-communist underground or the Soviet occupation, but also as far as the German occupation is concerned. The Institute of National Remembrance also promotes its activities, its educational projects, among others. in the United States. Only that the Pilecki Institute is a much more specialised institution, a much narrower area of activity, as the Minister said, and I think that these institutes, contrary to what has been said here, complement each other well. And it must be borne in mind that extensive research into German sources - which also needs to be carried out not only in Germany, but also in the United States and as far as possible in Russia, because these German sources, the German archives are very scattered in different places in the world - they require long and tedious work. It is not possible to expect here a very rapid presentation of all the effects of these works. Of course, it is worth acting infinitely in many places, in different countries, but the headquarters, such basics, branches in New York and Tel Aviv are necessary, necessary - I also think that if it worked, it also in the East. On the other hand, first of all, I would like to thank all the Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Culture and Media, because in fact the work was in general very much in line with the few exceptions, and it is good that this is how we work together for the development of the Pilecki Institute. Once again, I ask you to consider the amendments in the block of today's Parliamentary votes. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u258	Thank you very much. And Minister Magdalena Gawin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to correct one further comment or opinion which appeared in this Chamber that the Pilecki Institute has a budget of 76 million PLN. Of course, this is not true because the institute received 76 million PLN once. And it was like this: headquarters, jobs, computers, tooling, digitalization, everything. It was a one-time drop. In fact, our grant is very, very modest. The Pilecki Institute employs the best exhibitors in the country, among others. They created the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising, but also the Museum of Emigration in Gdynia, these are very outstanding Polish artists. It also employs very excellent and good researchers and historians. I think that we must all understand today that the Polish weakness in promoting knowledge about Poland and Central and Eastern Europe does not result from the fact that our history is not interesting, it does not result from the fact that we are very disliked. It simply follows that we are taking these actions relatively late. But you have to start sometime. It really makes sense. There's a point. And this method, which we use, that we work with Anglo-Saxon historians, for which we translate sources in Polish, to which they do not have access, is really a very good method. So I hope that the Institute in New York will develop its activities as well as in Berlin. I also wanted to say that I am very sorry that there is a pandemic because I wanted to invite everyone to some individual trips to Berlin to see both the permanent exhibition, which is about the Polish Underground State, the mission of the rotmaster of Pilecki, and the temporary exhibition, which concerns protests in Belarus, and to see first of all the team and the impressive, impressive work of a very small team. There are dozens of people working in Berlin who have prepared a huge digitalization, including archives. Once again, I would like to thank all the Members who have trusted me and who have expressed their support for this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u260	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to join the third reading of the draft law without referring the draft to the committee and after service of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] [[Objection!]] I heard an objection. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on wine products (print No 1314). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Richard Bartosik, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the draft law on wine products. The draft Law on Wine Products is a draft new law which will take over most of the provisions contained in the Act of 12 May 2011 on the manufacture and distribution of wine products, the marketing of these products and the organisation of the wine market. The provisions of the Act of 12 May 2011 will be limited only to the geographical indications of such products. As a consequence, the title of the Act will be amended to include the geographical indications of wines and aromatised wine products. The proposed provisions provide for the issuing of four regulations of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. On the basis of the current provisions, eight regulations of the Minister for Agriculture are issued. The proposed law regulates the rules for the manufacture and labelling of fermented wine drinks, i.e. e.g. fruit wines, ciders, perrys, potted honeys, aromatised ciders, as well as implementing European Union rules on the organisation of the wine market. The Act gives producers the possibility to produce high quality products with a high share of fruit or honey and adapts the definitions of such products to the needs of the market. The proposed legislation simplifies and harmonises the rules of entry in the register of regulated activities, while transferring the keeping of that register from the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to the competence of the National Agricultural Support Centre. In the case of traders producing or spilling small quantities of high-quality fermented wine drinks: fruit wines, quality ciders, quality perrys, quality ice cider, ice perry, cider, perry, quality honey, the law introduces the possibility to purchase parts of fruit or honey originating in the area of production. There is no such possibility at present. The maximum production limit is also increased from 10 000. Up to 100,000. l on a yearly basis and the possibility of producing such products outside the tax warehouse and retailing at the place of production is introduced. For the implementation of European Union legislation, the Act shall specify, inter alia, the control bodies, the rules for the circulation of documents, the recording of wine-growing, the rules for the certification of vintage wine and the rules for the certification of the variety wine. High Izbo! We propose a change in the title of the bill. The term "product trade' contained in the title of the Act of 12 May 2011 requires removal as this law does not regulate the rules of trade in wine products. This is the matter of the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and combating alcoholism. The proposed law covers a wider scope than the matter regulated by the Law of 12 May 2011 and defines the names for fermented wine drinks. We also propose changes to the definitions used in the law. These changes are several: changes in the definition of fermented wine drink, changes in the product of fermented wine drinks. We also propose the introduction of a register of regulated activities, as well as the entry in the register of regulated activities on a simplified basis. We also introduce additional rules on regulated activities and define the organisation of the wine market. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that this law be passed, which will be subject to the notification process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kapinos, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u263	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on wine products, print No. 1314. The Minister has already mentioned that this is a new law which will take over most of the provisions contained in the Act of 12 May 2011 on the manufacture and distribution of wine products, the marketing of these products and the organisation of the wine market. This law meets the expectations of producers of wine products. It has been consulted with the wine producers' environment. During the public consultation, a large proportion of the comments were accepted and taken into account in this law. The proposed law amends the products of fermented wine drinks such as ciders, perrys, fruit wines, etc. by modifying, adding new and deleting certain definitions of fermented wine drinks, simplifying and harmonising the rules of entry in the register of operators engaged in the production or distribution of wine products. For operators carrying out activities in the field of manufacture or distribution of small quantities of high quality wine products, fruit wines, quality cider, quality perry, ice cider, ice perry, cider, perry or quality honey, it simplifies the requirements for obtaining an entry in the above mentioned. register, allows, among others. the purchase of parts of fruit or honey originating in the production area increases the maximum production limit from 100 hl per year to a maximum of 1 000. hl per year. It introduces the possibility of producing such products outside the tax warehouse, introduces the possibility of retailing of products at the place of production, abolishes the obligation to approve the plant, remains the obligation to register plants kept by the district health inspector, amends the principle of labelling fermented wine drinks. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the Government's draft legislation on wine products in the course of parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition in relation to the Wine Products Act, a law which has an industrial dimension, is certainly important for wine producers, fermented beverages, including cider. It actually has a technical dimension. It regulates the rules for the manufacture of fermented wine drinks, the pursuit of economic activities in the field concerned, the labelling of those beverages, with names on them. This is a rather important issue. I will also refer later to the marking with excise marks. The organization of the wine market... I will not discuss these specific solutions. I would rather focus on what the law does not really have, and what the industry has been expecting for a long time, because this law unfortunately does not meet, and should, by the way, how each law should give certainty to those who are engaged in business activities should make compliance with its provisions give a sense of security to their business. This is not, in fact, because the definitions used in this Act are not consistent with the definitions resulting from the Combined Nomenclature of CN codes, with those used for excise duty collection purposes and, consequently, do not provide certainty that the products produced in accordance with the definitions of that Act will be classified in accordance with other definitions for the same product groups. There is no clear indication that products produced in accordance with the Winery Act produced in accordance with the definitions contained therein will be classified under the CN codes, which means that specific rates of excise duty are subsequently paid. In our view, therefore, it is necessary to supplement the provisions of this Act and to assign to the specific definitions contained in the Act the relevant CN codes, which will clearly indicate whether, for tax purposes, these products will be included in wines or fermented beverages, whether they will be outside this group and will be included in a group of spirit products. This is, in fact, very important because excise duty rates vary according to the CN group. The rate of excise duty on wine and fermented products falling within CN headings 2204, 2205 and 2206 shall be PLN 174 for 1 hl of finished product, per cider, depending on whether we have cider up to 5% or more than 5% alcoholic strength by volume of 97 or 174 zł, and all products having an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 1,2% , falling within CN codes 2207, 2208, are covered by rates for ethyl alcohol and that is PLN 6275 from 1 hl of ethyl alcohol contained in the finished product. I repeat: the rate of excise duty, i.e. the costs determining the business sense, is determined by the classification of the CN which is not assigned to the specific definitions in the wine law determining the method of production. And that's what I've been talking about, which is marking. It does not seem necessary to mark e.g. Cider with excise marks. In many countries such solutions have been adopted. We have an analogy to beer, practically the same power that isn't marked. We have a clear inconsistency here, and this is in fact proof that Poland resort is very well. In our opinion, we should not allow this to happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want to sort this out. We think we have enough time, given the fact that the bill requires notification to make up for the shortcomings that we encourage. At the same time, I request that the law be passed not only to the Committee on Agriculture, but also to the Committee on Public Finance, because of our expectations, to force the Minister of Finance's involvement in the regulation of the issue, to supplement the project with a very important solution in my view. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting our opinion on the Wine Products Act on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. This bill does indeed meet the expectations of this environment. Of course, the only question is why it's taking so long. The 2011 Act had nothing to do with changes in EU legislation, as in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2015 were amended by directives and regulations of the European Union, while the Polish government absolutely did not respond and implement the provisions of the directives into Polish law. The question arises as to why this was happening. Perhaps because we do not appreciate this industry, because so far Poland will probably not be a tycoon in wine production, but it can be noted that the number of areas used for vineyards per year is increasing. Today it is estimated to be about 500 ha and the interest of producers is undoubtedly considerable, but they actually paid attention to the fact that it must be regulated by law. I am saying this as a Western Pomeranian Member, the Western Wall, which, in short, is at the moment a kind of leader in wine production. It is about Zachodniopomorskie and Lubuskie voivodships. The new law has ordered a number of regulations and there is no doubt that it is very beneficial for the industry, because the 2011 law had a lot of flaws. The situation of small producers of these beverages will undoubtedly improve, because the important thing is that the records of both producers and growers, i.e. the owners of vineyards, will finally be entered. It's important, too. The proposed provisions of the Act are intended, as far as intentions are concerned, to ensure that fruit is used in production, which will, in short, be produced in Poland by Polish growers. Undoubtedly, this should be the way it should be, because so far there has been such practice that fruits were bought outside the borders and production was not so directly connected with Polish growers. An increase of 100,000 is being introduced. And, which will be governed by this law, and that's also good, that also gives us a chance to develop. Of course, the Act does not only apply to wines, but also to the production of ciders and drinking honeys. The law gives the possibility of various solutions, and this is certainly very beneficial. However, producers do indeed pay attention to issues related to excise duty and to the ambiguities of the rules in this regard. I therefore think that in the course of the committee's work, this remark, which is absolutely right, should be taken into account. The aim is to clearly know how to classify such products, not to qualify them as a product, e.g. alcohol, which is, in short, taxed at high rates. This will undoubtedly require legal solutions as well. The Left Club is with the aim of proceding this law in committees, and will support its swift adoption. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much to a colleague from Western Pomerania for noticing that the western and southern walls are leaders when it comes to production. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the effect of climate change that we have been observing for some time. There is another reason, a certain fashion that comes to us, but also a return to traditions that have been associated with certain centers. Today, thanks to these facilitations it's more visible. And here, Minister, thank you for these solutions, because they are going in the right direction. On the other hand, on a number of areas today, I would like to draw attention to the topics that we will be discussing as part of the amendments tabled. I hope that, in the course of the work on this bill, we will reach solutions, compromises. That's what the trade unions are talking about. And you will allow me, Minister, to say that trade unions are primarily talking about the lack of harmonisation of the draft law with excise legislation. I think it's already sounded in this room, and I hope we're working on it. There is no clarity as to classification and the related fiscal risks. That's what the producers are talking about. Of course, they also talk about the positives: the increase of up to 100,000, as much as possible, about the fact that these little ones will finally be able to compete on better terms. There is some doubt about the possibility of buying raw materials. I think it would be worth considering, however, to leave this 50% share not so much in the voivodship as in the country. Perhaps it would be worth extending this range to the whole country, because for example. in the case of neighbouring voivodships, this limits to some extent. Sometimes these vineyards are very far away and this element can be very problematic when it comes to the possibility of acquiring raw materials. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the records - I think as close as possible to the manufacturer, this is the right direction. I hope, Minister, that of course you meant KOWR, KOWR's branches in the regions concerned, which will keep this record and keep an eye on this accomplice with the producers. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that, as I said at the very beginning, this is a law that is needed, expected, yet with some shortcomings, but I think that today we can talk about starting the process of improving it or adjusting it. The point is, at the very end, when the High House makes its decision, this bill is the best. And above all, it is about giving it a chance to make what has been created in Poland over the last few years, or to return to a certain, as I have allowed it to be defined, fashion, is accompanied by a good law, which will not only give prospects for development, but also safeguard all those producers who are already on the market today, precisely so that they can function well. Thank you again for this project. I remind other regions, and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that I encourage them to draw from ideas and traditions of Lubuskie, Western Pomerania, because some of them are already earning quite well today. And as far as what I said is that the climate is changing, which gives us the possibility that our wines can already compete more and more successfully with these traditional European or global depths, I think this law can help. And I hope that here the political consensus from left to right will be absolutely justified. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u270	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member of the Lubuskie Voivodeship, where the Lubuskie Wine and Honey Route is, as a Member of the Zielona Góra, where wine collection is known for the whole of Poland, I naturally could not fail to deal with this project. Naturally, we welcome this draft wine law, which sets out certain definitions, introduces new categories of products desirable by the market, proposes significant facilitations for small producers of wine and fermented beverages, simplifies the principle of starting up and later carrying out activities, which will allow the development of local production, which we all care about. The point is to make more small vineyards. We see many advantages of this bill: increasing production limits from a maximum of 100 hl to a maximum of 1 000. hl, simplifying the regulatory structure, simplifying and harmonising the rules of registration, which we consider to be a great facilitation. The wine industry suggests that such facilitations will help to develop it, but the industry also points out that there is a lack of harmonisation of the draft law with excise legislation. Unfortunately, there is no improvement in this respect, but I hope that this will be refined. This problem of the industry was not resolved, and the industry was hoping that this new law would be drafted in such a way that the producers of fermented wine drinks in Poland in accordance with the proposed law would be able to be sure that these beverages would be qualified for fermented beverages also in excise terms. But I'm hoping this will be worked out. As a Confederation, we will submit two amendments extending the possibility of purchasing raw materials. We believe it's Art. 2 point 24 (a) b should be replaced by the following: wine-growing plants located in the territory of the Republic of Poland in a quantity of not more than 50% by weight of all raw materials derived from vines, and Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 shall be replaced by the following: within the limit set in paragraph. 1 fermented wine drinks referred to in paragraph 1. 1, may also be made from purchased fruit and honey if these raw materials are produced in the Republic of Poland and represent not more than 50% by weight of all the fruit and honey used in the manufacture of those beverages. We believe that such an amendment will improve the activity, because not always the area of the voivodship coincides with the area of raw material collection. This area may be slightly out of the voivodship and then, according to what is written in this bill, there is a problem. I hope that this amendment will solve this problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u273	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The submission is a consequence of European Union legislation. We appreciate that it brings simplification and harmonisation of rules on wine products. We are pleased to increase the competitiveness of small producers of cider, honey or fruit wines produced from raw materials on their own farms. It draws our attention to meeting the expectations of the 21st century, i.e. the creation of an electronic circulation of documents between producers of wine products and the institution which is responsible for keeping the register. The Act significantly improves the regulation of the wine and cider market, taking into account some of the demands of small producers. Any changes in taxes and charges, such as those mentioned by a colleague from the Civic Coalition, regarding excise marks or the possibility of assigning cider farmers to the ZUS area to replace the current KRUS, will be critical during the work. Although the submission does not open the way for local wine producers as wide as e.g. Canadian legislation - there is the famous case of Belgian emigrant Pascal Miche, who convinced the whole legal system that you can produce wine from tomatoes, and earlier proved that the tomato, according to botany, is a fruit - but for this it refers directly to traditional Polish liquor, i.e. drinking, good quality honey. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 sees the need for further work on the project in Parliamentary committees. We will be actively involved in the work on this submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u274	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. One minute. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland the production of wine intended for wholesale sale is a relatively new phenomenon. In 2009, they were produced by 20 producers, and today there are 330 of them. As far as the number of producers is concerned, Małopolska leads. We have some of the best climate conditions in this respect, and with the changing climate, of course, these conditions will change, so the rules should make wine production easier for producers. We should create rules that are harmonised. Unfortunately, this amendment lacks one thing, namely excise legislation. Today, producers of fermented wine drinks cannot be sure that their product will be classified as wine or any other type of alcohol drink. In the case of wine, producers will often be more profitable simply to import a grape base from abroad than to produce it in Poland, which is probably not what we should be talking about. I would therefore like to ask the Ministry: Why did it not propose to amend these excise regulations so as to increase legal certainty and enable Polish producers (Bell) to produce wine in accordance with stable regulations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u276	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My doubt raises the record relating to small producers of wine drinks and others mentioned in the project. Although the Act gives a limited possibility to purchase raw materials from external sources, it is 50% However, it requires that this purchase can only be made in the district where the producer is located or in the neighbouring district. Such a record condemns the producer to serious difficulties in the event of a natural disaster or plant disease in the region of his residence. I will not mention any flavour additives that may sometimes not even exist in our country. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Does the European Union impose such provisions, or is it the ministry's own idea? Are the Member States of the European Union free to regulate in this regard? I would very much ask for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u279	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the wine industry is developing very dynamically and these changes, which are designed, largely meet expectations and are needed. However, during the consultation, comments were made on the lack of harmonisation of the draft law with excise legislation. As a result, this nomen omen can result in the abandonment of the use of native fruits, the native base and the conversion of this raw material into imported ones. I wanted to ask the Minister: Has this been corrected in the project? Are you open to discussion at the committee meeting? Indeed, on the one hand, there are provisions that meet expectations, i.e. they should make this activity easier, but if it is not properly included in tax regulations, all this effort will be in vain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u280	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The wine environments are closely involved in the work on this law. His representatives include: they submitted comments on the harmonisation of technological and qualitative procedures in the case of fruit wines, cider and perry. These products, as wine products covered by the Act, should be produced as much as possible technologically as grape wines, i.e. with the maximum proportion of natural juices or fruit musts, and with a small share of industrial ingredients - of course without the addition of improvers, improvers taste. As explained in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, a definition of sweetening has been added which takes into account the addition of one or more sweetening products, in particular the production of cider and perry. It should be noted that the use of fruit juices in the production of wine products improves the quality of these products but also increases the benefits for fruit growers. Minister! Do the current regulations include the possibility of sweetening (The Bell) or the sweetening of cider and perry with natural juice without industrial sucrose? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as this law is concerned, the products that go outside the tax warehouse and at the same time build a direct market... When it comes to alcohol, when it comes to wine, that's it. It's a great record, by the way. In addition, the purchase of regional goods strengthens the region in terms of our domestic products and our domestic agriculture. On the other hand, on this subject I wanted to ask whether the agricultural resort and the right-wing politicians were considering the situation of artificial dyes within the European Union, because, as we know on the fruit market soft Sadists, Polish farmers have a problem with selling goods not only because there is high competition, but also because artificial dyes kill these natural ones. I'm talking about strengthening agriculture by promoting natural dyes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are work in this area being undertaken in the ministry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u284	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns the current situation and the second forecasts after the entry into force of these provisions. First question: What is the current level of annual production of wine products by small producers? I didn't find that in the explanatory memorandum, and I think that's important information. Second question: What is the forecast of the increase in production volume and how can the number of small producers' transformations into enterprises today be estimated, whose main objective or main focus will be the production of fermented wine drinks? This is possible, and this is justified, and I think that these forecasts are absolutely not enough. And there's not enough information about the current situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u286	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u287	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I discuss the Wine Products Act, I'd like to talk about the cider. As the largest exporter of apples in Europe and the third in the world, we could undoubtedly be the power of producing this liquor. Let me remind you that in Poland there are 4 million tons of apples a year, which is as much as in Spain. Can you imagine Spain without wine? However, the annual sales of cider in Poland are only PLN 50 million, although it was estimated only recently that it would be PLN 1 billion. In comparison, the annual value of beer sold in Poland exceeds PLN 17 billion. Let us remember that cider usually has a similar alcoholic strength to beer and sometimes even lower. I would therefore like to know why it is still subject to higher excise duty than to beer, and the bottles must have a banner. Why Still Ciders You can't advertise? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister Morawiecki has promised to introduce a zero excise duty for Polish cider since 2018, to erase the obligation to bandolate, but you have not yet fulfilled these promises. Maybe it's about time we did it on this bill. Then we can say to each other in a glass of good Polish, national cider: health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u288	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to thank you very much for the club speeches and for the positive approach to the rules facilitating wine production on our national ground. Ladies and gentlemen! We're gonna keep working on this bill. As I said, it is subject to notification. I'm going to refer to some of the statements and questions that were asked during the club appearances. A representative of the Civic Platform talked about definitions that are different. They are indeed different, but CN codes are used for other purposes and there is no way to assign these codes. This is a separate matter, which was analysed in detail with the Ministry of Finance. There is also a distinction between CN codes and names used on labels in Union legislation. The excise duty rates are derived from the provisions of the excise duty Act. The proposed names in the Act bring them closer to the definitions set out in the Excise Tax Act. Marking is much more detailed than excise legislation, e.g. the excise tax law contains fermented beverages and there is no definition fruit wines Or honey. By the way, I would like to say that the excise duty bill will be presented to the High House and that many of the issues that we have just discussed will be raised in this law. Another request, the Left Club, for changes to European Union legislation. These changes resulted from the regulations of the European Union which we apply directly in this law. Amendments to European Union legislation were issued in 2020. The rules do not apply to the production of cider or fruit wines. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Meaning?]] There's been a lot of talk about fiscal risks. Mr Rzepa spoke about this. Thank you first of all for the warm words about this bill. The provisions of the Act are similar to those of excise duties. The expansion of purchases to the country is very difficult, therefore we propose the area of the voivodship. This is agreed with the Ministry of Finance and we give these opportunities, but we limit them to shopping in the voivodship. And that's a deal with the Ministry of Finance. As regards the excise duty referred to above all by a Member of the Confederation, in line with the position of the Minister of Finance, each product must be analysed as a CN product. The rules in this area are very similar and the lack of harmonisation may result from the filtration process itself, these are already specific things. Too heavily filtered fruit wine can be questioned by customs officers and even considered a spirit drink. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law regulates the issue of sweetening. You can sugarify, you can also sugarify cider. This is precisely included in the definitions. But cider, for example. you can only sweeten with apple juice. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk asked about the addition of artificial dyes. The addition is defined by European Union legislation, which is precisely defined there. If we want to change this, it is only possible at European Union level. I would like to address the questions that have been raised by individual Members. Mr Mishalski asked about the tax rules. I mentioned earlier that this is not the scope of this bill. The rules governing these issues will be amended, but by the Ministry of Finance. Mr Jan Szczepański spoke about the scope of functioning in the county. There are no such regulations, we propose the voivodship here. That's what I've been talking about before. Mr Mirosław Suchoń on the lack of harmonisation with excise legislation. We are approaching this harmonisation and, if possible, this law is written in this way. I think that's all the questions right now. There was a request for an answer to the question of a Member from the Polish People's Party, written, and we will answer that question. I think that's it. Thank you. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Minister, what about the cider? But what does that mean? Can it be sold? Does he have a different excise duty than wine or the same?]] As far as cider and excise legislation are concerned, these are the provisions of the Ministry of Finance and we are not talking about this in this law. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But Mrs Jachira's proposal was to standardize.]] Yes. And we understand that proposal, but this is a request to the Ministry of Finance. We don't include it in this bill. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: This must be corrected.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u290	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on wine products to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the bill to the Public Finance Commission in addition. We will settle this conclusion in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government proposal for a law on relief and loan registers (print No. 1313). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mrs Olga Semeniuk, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u291	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Law on Aid and Loan Funds is a consequence of the amendments introduced by the amendment of the Law on Trade Unions, and its primary objective is to give the right rank to the rules governing the issue of Aid and Loan Funds and to clarify them. Currently, Article is the basis for the operation of relief and lending banks. 39 First Law and Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 19 December 1992 on employee relief and loan banks and cooperative savings and credit banks in workplaces. On 1 January 2019 the Law of 5 July 2018 amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws, hereinafter referred to as the 2018 amendment, entered into force. As a result of the amendments introduced by this law, full union coalition law, i.e. the right to establish and join trade unions has been extended to all persons engaged in employment. This group includes, in addition to employees, persons providing work for remuneration on a different basis than the employment relationship if they do not employ other persons for such employment, irrespective of the basis of employment, and have rights and interests relating to the performance of work which may be represented and defended by a trade union. As a result of the extension of the Law of the Union Coalition, the 2018 amendment also amended the Article. 39 Trade Unions Act. At that time the concept of "worker" was replaced by the concept of "employer" and the concept of "worker" by "worker" by "worker" by "worker." The revision of the current 1992 Regulation is not justified. The issue of relief and lending banks concerns citizens' rights and obligations and therefore constitutes a statutory matter. In addition to the fact that the amendment of the current regulation is not justified, it should also be noted that although the functioning of the relief and loan banks was based on the provisions of the Trade Union Act, they are now independent and independent of trade unions and union membership is not relevant for obtaining the status of a member of the relief and loan register. Moreover, the loan-aid money may be created even if no trade union exists with the employer concerned. Therefore, there is no basis for issues relating to the functioning of the relief and lending banks to be currently governed by the Trade Union Act and its implementing rules. The scope of the draft law covers the principles of creating, organising and acting on behalf of employers of loan and relief banks and their liquidation, and largely repeats the provisions of the current 1992 regulation. In view of the above, the government is asking for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u292	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Patryk Wicher will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It was my honor to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the draft law on relief and loan funds contained in print 1313. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it should be emphasised that money is a matter of self-help for workers. This is a very important element, because it should be placed in the social economy, and this phenomenon is very useful for the functioning of a properly functioning civil society, which we very much want to shape its future. As a result, the development of further quantities, but also the quality of functioning of these cash registers, is a very important element. Currently, there are only 934 cash registers in the country, which covers about 4,000. employers. My fellow Member States, as the Minister rightly said just a moment ago, this project is a project which is designed to systematise and standardise the conceptual sphere, and to give such summary clear rules which are contained in a single provision, and not as yet, both in the Trade Unions Act and in the Regulation applicable to the functioning of the cash registers. Of course, it is important, ladies and gentlemen, to stress that the function of cash registers, I quote in favour of the law, is democratic governance and preventive support for families of workers and pensioners at risk of poverty and social exclusion due to low income. As it was said, this conceptual sphere has been regulated. The concept of "worker' has been replaced by "employer', "workers' and "workers'. As you can see, in accordance with the principles and legislative techniques of all these conditions, it is because the cash register is independent of the existence of trade unions within a given company, it may be cash, it does not have to be trade unions, it may be labour councils or certain communities and organisations of employees, associations. Therefore, it needs to be separated into a separate bill, which today we have the honour of presenting to you and of course recommend. It is very important that these standards are addressed by future actors, groups of employees who will create these funds. It is therefore important to stress that the bill is of a blank nature. That is to say, it regulates certain basic concepts and assumptions and basic principles of the operation of the cash register, but also gives great freedom to shape certain scopes in the statutes of individual cash registers. Therefore, my dear country, it must be borne in mind, however, that this blankism is not a matter of being in conflict with the law. Of course, everything must be in accordance with the higher order. Ladies and gentlemen! Further, of course, other concepts are also regulated: the contribution of a member, the benefit, and not only, but has also been taken for example. the issue of supervision. Because this is a concept that goes too far into the functioning of the cash register, we replace it with control. Control, for example, by trade union organisations, employees' councils or representation of persons working for a given trader. My dear fellows! Of course, for money to be created, it's a technique that requires a minimum of 10 people. One money in one bet. Inter-channel cash may be created. I remind you that, as so far, the cash register has legal capacity, but not legal personality. Therefore, we are talking about this form of defective legal personality. It should be pointed out that the cashiers cannot conduct business. Of course, it is also a very important element to adapt these provisions to the scope of GDPR, as you know, which has been operating in line with European Union standards for several years. These provisions are implemented in this project so that they are already compatible with the entire personal data protection system. This law also regulates other accounting spheres, functioning, and requires the employer to assist in the functioning of the cash register, to give space to its operation, to help raise contributions and not only, and also to specify that the accounting year is, of course, the calendar year ending in the financial statements. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it must be stated explicitly that this law does not interfere with the functioning of the cash registers today, but at the time of its entry, these cash registers will be supposed to be the cashiers in respect of those provisions which will enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the law. Casinos have 18 months to adapt their statutes to this regulation. This does not impose any additional obligations on employers, which is also very important, but regulates and regulates these provisions. Of course, the project was consulted with numerous external actors. Finally, my dear countries (the bell), Law and Justice recommend this project to you and stress that we are very interested in the development of money in the country. We encourage employees to create and create this social economy, to create this mutual self-help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present its position on the Government's proposal for a law on relief and loan funds contained in print no. 1313. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this law is a new legal act regulating, among others. the creation of relief and lending banks and their activities, the rights and obligations of the members of the relief and lending banks, the tasks of the statutory bodies and the financial management of the relief and lending banks. Currently, the deposit-and-lending funds operate on the basis of an article. 39 the Trade Unions Act of 23 May 1991 and on the basis of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 19 December 1992 on employee relief and loan banks and cooperative savings and credit banks in workplaces. This draft law is nothing more than a repetition of the provisions of the current regulation. Dear Minister, If a new act is being created, this should be done well and certain provisions should be clarified. The Act gives the cashiers the legal capacity that makes them a legal person. But they will not pay corporate income tax. So what about the financial statements? According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 and 3 of the Accounting Act, the financial statements of the cashier are simplified and consist exclusively of the balance sheet. Since the report of the relief and loan fund is not subject to submission to the National Tax Administration or to the National Tax Administration, it should be understood that it should be kept as well as the accounts - by the assistance and loan fund. The next thing you know, it's a question of the execution of the benefits from the loan-aid fund, specifically the benefits. There's no provision to specify whether the bailout benefits are excluded from the execution. Should this be considered as a targeted grant? Or would it be better to make that clear in this bill? Dear Minister, Here's another thing. In January 2020, a brutal leap was made on the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok, a Polish private bank. First all accounts and money were arrested, and later many entrepreneurs, many individuals and organizations lost their funds. Shortly thereafter, the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund and his deputy resigned. Why? Perhaps because this forced restructuring of the bank was not the right thing to do. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about it because the bank accounts of the loan and relief banks in this bank also lost the money - the money of the members of these funds. This raises the question of why it is not possible to protect the cash in the bank accounts of the deposit-and-lending banks. In this bill, you're making an adjustment to the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, but I don't think it's in this place. Minister! The report on the public consultation of the draft law dated November 2020 also deserves attention. It states that the position towards the project was presented by: the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), the Trade Union Forum and the Confederation of Leviathan, and I still have the position of the National Trade Union Agreement on this bill, which is dated on 30 July 2020, so it probably reached consultation. I do not understand why this position was not taken into account, because taking all positions into account makes it possible to create better rules. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club welcomes this draft law and requests that it be referred to the relevant committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u296	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club, the Left has the pleasure of presenting an opinion on the government proposal for a law on relief and loan funds. The legal basis for the operation of the cashiers so far, as has already been mentioned, were the provisions of the 1991 Trade Unions Act and the 1992 Council of Ministers Regulation on Employee Aid and Loan Funds and cooperative savings and credit banks in workplaces. Two and a half years ago, an amendment to the Trade Union Act entered into force. These new provisions required an appropriate revision of the 1992 Aid and Loan Regulation. Instead, it was decided to include provisions on relief and loan banks in a separate legal act, independent of the Trade Union Act. In the opinion of the parliamentary club, the Left is right, as the provisions on relief and loan funds are provisions governing the rights and obligations of citizens and as such are a broader legal matter than the matter of the trade unions themselves. Hence, a separate legal act is justified. It is only necessary to ask why after three years, exactly after three years, the amendment of the Trade Union Act has been decided to introduce a draft law covering the principles of creation, organisation, operation and liquidation of relief and loan banks to the Sejm and the Senate. A separate law regulating the operation of cash registers can spread them, which in the opinion of the parliamentary club Left is desirable, especially now, when many Poles and Poles lose their jobs, experience shortages, the effects of rising prices, inflation, lack of means for survival, to bind the end to the next one. Aid-borrowing funds are a form of self-help. They offer non-refundable benefits and low-interest loans to workers, as well as to pensioners and pensioners. Sometimes a loan from the cash register is the only way to obtain the necessary funds without additional costs in the form of commissions or interest, which is particularly important at such a difficult time as a pandemic. They are a healthy counterweight to pathologies lurking everywhere on desperate people, moments and quick loans, traps that only strengthen existing debt loops. It is important in this context to raise awareness of the existence of bailouts and the possibility of setting up them in each workplace. It is not necessarily common knowledge that these funds operate not only in the public sector, not only in large plants. They can also work in quite small companies. In order to belong to the cashiers there is no need for employment on the basis of a contract of employment, because the amendment of the above-mentioned law on trade unions - the parliamentary club Lefta sought for this - also includes people who provide work not because of the contract of employment, but because of the contract for work or contract of order. They may also include pensioners and pensioners. Ten people are enough to make that kind of money. It works completely socially, not for profit. It is a completely bottom-up and self-governing initiative. In times of growing neoliberal belief in the need to commercialise public services, these cash registers are sometimes associated as a relic of the past. Nothing more wrong. The idea behind the creation of these funds was, and is, the provision of financial assistance to a colleague. The cash register started 60 years ago as a social structure of the CIS, then spread to other industries and are in some way specific to Poland. Money is social, it doesn't arise for profit, it works on the principles of social solidarity, social assistance. May solidarity and camaraderie never become a relic of the past in Poland. Of course, I am referring to the unselfish and noble camaraderie, not its nepotical, perverted version, which has now spread in Poland. I'm moving on to regulation. The novelty is that, despite the cash register, they operate on the basis of the supplemented and updated provisions of the Trade Union Act repeated in the aforementioned regulation, which assume that the cash register is independent, independent and unionary units is irrelevant in their case. It does not matter whether there is a trade union in the workplace. The money could be inter-channel. Ten people who want to drive that kind of money are enough to make it. Social control over cash is ensured, which has already been mentioned (the bell). We live in a time when social solidarity is becoming increasingly difficult, and we often have to fight an uneven battle for it. The cash register preserved the principles of well-understood camaraderie. I hope they're still developing it. The Left Parliamentary Club welcomes this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u298	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u299	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Aid-borrowing funds are a permanent element of our reality. Most of us have met with this solution. The solution is based on friendship, mutual support in needs. If you sometimes need a quick moment, in a simple way - there are no complicated procedures - you can get money and meet needs without going to the bank. Mutual taxation... It's not the money that comes out of nowhere. First you have to tax yourself and deposit your money. Community support can then be used. Then you also have to pay it back, but this is a simple, cheap and good solution. A lot of employees use it. This should not be questioned. I don't think anyone's gonna question that. The forms of employment are changing, many other laws are changing, so we need to adapt the solutions that have been in place so far. It is good that this discussion continues, but it is only the first reading. I think that detailed solutions should be addressed at the committee meeting and a number of amendments should be made so as to avoid any misunderstandings. Although there has been a public consultation, there are some comments. There will be time in committee for the substantive work. We will need to devote time to this bill and work out good solutions. Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland is in favour of referring the bill to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. Put your mask on, sir. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: In such an empty room, your marshal? The virus won't make it to anyone.]] Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the Confederacy will not object to this law. Like he said, sleep. Ronald Reagan, if something's working, tax something if it's still working, regulate how it's stopped working, give it a donation. We note with satisfaction that the first stage, or taxation, has been omitted here, but I have no doubt that it will not last a year, 2 or 3 years - since these funds have acquired some sort of legal personality - and will eventually be taxed, because if something lives, it will be taxed of course. But it's not so far, so we're not going to oppose it. On the other hand, we are surprised that such money needs to be regulated. They worked, for example. in the Prussian partition, both in Silesia and in the Grand Duchy of Poznań. They acted without any regulation, and they didn't need any regulation, because why? Why regulate something that works without regulation? So that I repeat: it may not work in Poland without regulation, but we do not see a particular need to regulate anything. Anything, I repeat, we will not object to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u303	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government proposal for a law on relief and loan registers. High Izbo! The purpose of the regulation is de facto to transfer to the statutory status the rules on the organisation and operation of the relief and lending banks. These rules are currently included in the Regulation. This regulation is in principle working properly, while the legislator, the government, has recognised that there are grounds for forcing it to be transferred to the statutory level. We are going to examine whether this is really necessary, because it seems to be one of those institutions that work perfectly. I'm sure a lot of parliamentarians are or have been members of the relief and loan funds. This formula was working out. In principle, however, most of these provisions will be retained, de facto transferred from the Regulation to the Act. The same organs, more or less similar regulations, so there's not much change here. It's worth, I think, reminding that there are about 1060 of these cash registers in Poland. Perhaps there are at least tens of thousands of Poles and Poles. This is, I would say, a very close form of cooperativeism to all of us. On the other hand, it is worth mentioning a few things that appear to be suitable for analysis in this law. First of all, in the article. 5 is referred to control over KZP by trade union organisations or, in the absence of an organisation, in another formula. On the other hand, I have the impression that this is not about control over the cash registers, but rather about control over the operations of the cash registers, and this probably requires additional regulation. I would like to draw attention to the article. 35, in which the government proposes to regulate the issue of guarantees at the level of the law. It seems that it works perfectly in the form in which it currently functions, i.e. that it is the cash registers that self-governably define the form of guarantee. I'm having second thoughts about whether or not it needs to be transferred to legal matter. It is a question of the general issue of the policy of granting benefits, which is regulated today in the regulation, but the government proposal is bringing it to the level of the statutes. The question is whether, in a dynamically changing reality, this should function and be regulated in this way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One last thing. It is indeed the protection of the capital of the banks, which is collected in bank accounts - there is nothing here about it, and it seems it is time to settle it. So, on behalf of my circle, I request that the project be sent to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The existence of bailouts is not a novelty. As has been mentioned many times, the regulations are known to us all - and the Council of Ministers regulation, and the Trade Union Act. But one thing we need to be sure: that this mutual form of help for many people is very much needed and really tested for many years. That is to say, today, capital or financial resources are collected from contributions from members of this cash register and spent in various forms, most often loans, also from these contributions. It must be remembered that in this case we are not talking about some large amounts, because the loan can be carried out - according to the rules, because each of the cash registers has its own rules - only and only within the resources available. And the money comes from contributions and repayment of loans, so there must be awareness here too. all of us, however, that these measures are not known what amount, but it is always better - and in relation to commercial high-interest loans - that at a certain level of demand for goods we can use this form. This may not be a novelty for me, but the attitude, the role of the employer, is very important in this regulation. The employer is obliged in this law to many responsibilities, among others. the availability of the room, the collection of these contributions, the settlement, so, apart from the fact that there are individual bodies mentioned, the role of the employer is very important. And one more important thing in my opinion is the interest in which areas these cash registers operate. In such cases, where they were state-owned enterprises, where the Treasury still has its shares. This is rarely used in companies or companies with private capital. I think, Minister, that some form of promotion of this form of mutual support should be activated so that workers are aware that they can also use this form, even though they work in private companies, where there are most often no trade unions. As near Kukiz,15 we support this law, we give a positive opinion and, of course, we ask that it be directed to further work in the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'll set the time for questioning - 1 minute. First Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the gradation of cases that are submitted to the Sejm by the government. I am directing this question to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Does the government bill really concern the biggest problem of Poles and Poles? The so-called national vaccination programme is collapsing. Frankish people have been waiting for years to make their point, they text me and they call my parliamentary office and ask me if it's some kind of joke or if it's really happening. The Minister of Health is openly talking about the fourth wave of pandemics, and you, Prime Minister, instead of submitting a proposal for a solution to the High Sejm for the vaccination programme, tells us to deal with matters that are probably important, but is there really a time at the moment to consider and consider such subjects? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u308	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask why the proposed law identifies trade unions as a privileged party in the management of money belonging to the members of the cash register. I mean, for example. the content of the Article. 5. The members of the cash register as an independent body should be able, on the one hand, to entrust the management of the cash register to the selected trade union or manage it independently and independently of the trade union organisations with the help of the Management Board of its choice, and the composition of the members of the cash register does not have to coincide with the composition of the active trade unionists on the list and, on the other hand, the list of trade unionists of the largest relationship in the work establishment concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u311	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you two questions. The first concerns Article. 50, which provides for a ban on pooling positions, while the government has not proposed any consequences in the event of such an event, which seems to be so puzzling that this provision concerns the proper security of the assets of the cashier and members. Why would I say the idea of not securing it in any way with a consequence, some kind of criminal provision? The second point that I have already mentioned in my speech on behalf of the circle concerns the transfer of the rules for granting loans to the level of the statutes. So far it has been an area which freely created the board, now the state wants it to be implemented by means of a resolution of the assembly of members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Why, for what reasons?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Aid-lending banks have been operating in workplaces for many years with a great benefit to employees and this change in legislation is actually not changing much, it will only be a new law. However, there are some questionable records. The proposed law introduces an obligation for the audit committee to review the activities of the relief and loan banks at least once a quarter and to draw up a protocol for that control. I ask why the obligation to check so often is introduced into the bill. The review committee should determine how often money needs to be controlled. I think it's enough if it's done at least once a year, not every quarter. Shouldn't it be possible, when drawing up the bill, to take into account the good solutions that (the bell) were applied to these cash registers and which are available? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u314	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u315	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Certainly almost everyone who worked in a steelworks, sugar factory, cement factory or school was a member of the employee's loan and relief fund. Therefore, the bill, which regulates the operation of such cash registers, should be welcomed. As a Member, I have sometimes encountered the problem that the families of the members of the cash register have told me about the recovery of the accumulated contributions in the event of the death of a member of the cash register. Of course, the statutes regulated certain issues, said that the law of succession was in force at the time, but in some cases there were no such records in the statutes and then there were problems related to the recovery of these funds, and even if there was such a provision (the bell) and there was not a designated member who could receive the money, it was difficult. Will this be regulated in these new regulations so... Thank you very much. ...to be obliged to pay the money to the person indicated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the amended act, among others. it is proposed to introduce criteria to be met by the guarantor. It cannot be the person whose legal relationship with the employer has been terminated. The same guarantor of the loan can only be a person who also works in a given establishment. Therefore, will not the provision in the law on the requirement of a guarantor make it impossible for many employees to take a loan exceeding their own contribution because they will not have someone to guarantee it because few people will agree to guarantee the loan to a non-family associate? Will an employee who has a signed contract be able to guarantee someone a loan, e.g. for a year, if his contract doesn't specify its term of validity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u318	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The money from the fund was always a great support for employees, for members of the fund, for pensioners. This help enjoys and enjoyed great popularity among Poles. Therefore, this regulation has great value and it is good that it appears. The Act will support and consolidate a very good and proven practice of mutual financial support of the members of the loan-aid fund. We know very well that it has often been such a quick help for many people and has saved many families financially. Still, I have a question about employers. During the preparation of this law, did there appear any information from employers (the bell) that the law itself imposes such obligations as will hinder the development of the relief and lending banks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u319	Thank you very much. Last question, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u320	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have one brief question because of the doubts raised by Members, among others. Mrs Navel, on guarantees. The State did not foresee the use of a note there. So I would like to ask: as a method and a means of guarantee, did the state plan to do so, and if not, why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u321	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I now ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Olga Ewa Semeniuk. You're welcome. [[Thank you, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u322	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I'll start from the beginning. Grabbing things isn't really here. I believe that, in parallel to important matters, we must also lead you. This is the role of the Aid and Loan Fund Act. Secondly, as far as trade unions are concerned, we maintain their functioning in accordance with the Regulation. They were in charge, now they're in control. So the question seems unreasonable because we maintain our competence in the law in accordance with the regulation. Third question. Please respond and clarify in writing - we will be happy to answer it - because it was not entirely clear. As regards the duty of control and the review committee, we, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, secure the assets of the cash register, so the audit committee must meet more often than once a year. Once a year, ladies and gentlemen, we can prepare reports and certainly not carry out audits or the work of the audit committee. As regards Mr Kryj's question, it should be said that we have stated in the Act that, as regards the organs of KZP, at least one person entitled to receive a Member State contribution in the event of his death, hereinafter referred to as the entitled person, should be identified and the statement of that person referred to in Article submitted. 43 draft law. Thus, we maintain liquidity. As far as the criteria for the guarantor are concerned, the safety principle must be met here. Hence, these guarantors, those who perform this function, must be properly trained, but must also have appropriate competence. As regards the question of imposing any additional tasks on employers, I would also like to say to Mrs April that obligations are maintained, i.e. legal, cash and accounting services, and no additional obligations on employers are imposed. The rest of the questions will be answered in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u323	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the new elements of the new law will be among others. the ability of at least 10 employees to create cash for the employer concerned. The money will therefore be able to be founded not only by employees, but also e.g. The contractor, the contractor. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum of this Act states that: "However, the proposed regulation is private law and not public law, so those who can exercise social supervision over KZP do not have the means to intervene in the activities of the cash registers in power. Therefore, the use of the term'supervised' would be misleading and could also give rise to practical doubts. Therefore, the term'supervised' has been replaced by the term 'control', which does not contain in its meaning field the possibility of interfering with the controlled entity. Therefore, what control tools will be given to employees so that they can clearly control the funds they collect? What forms of appeal, security is provided for by the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u325	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on relief and loan funds, contained in print No 1313, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 16. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 53 hours 16 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 1384. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft Parliamentary Law on the creation of the Zamość Academy, prints 1101, 1147 and 1147-A - third reading. Formal proposal, Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Coalition. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request a break and an explanation to Members of the situation in which we are in today. At night, the text of the bill amending the Act on Radiophony and Television - anonymous, unknown authorship, which introduced a lot of confusion. At the same time, the committee is investigating the draft law on amending the law, but not on this. However, when it comes to this project, we do not know who the author is or what his intentions are. Well, if this project had been processed and had it been implemented... [[Voice from the room: Suski.]] ...not only would ruin the media order in Poland, but it would expose the audience to a lack of news, reliable news and real messages, while at the same time would expose Poland to conflicts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's such an amateur that we really want anyone to explain to us what it's really meant to be. Thank you very much. It cannot be that you deprive people of the constitution, the right to information and freedom of speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u327	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Member. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 208 - for, 229 - against, 2 stopped. The conclusion was not received by the majority. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act... [[Member Hanna Gill-Friday: Formal request...]] Member, I didn't have you on the list. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Here you are, a formal proposal, Mrs Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u328	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal request to order an adjournment... [[Voice from the room: It's already been done.]] Madame, I am sorry, Mrs... Because it happened... Madame, I am sorry, Mrs... Turn around, please. Member, she's been... Marshal, I'll just tell you what's going on. Member, but listen to me. You can't file that motion anymore because you voted. You can file another formal application. [[Voice from the room: O adjournment.]] Request for a change of vote may I? I am applying for a change of vote as it turned out that the Civic Platform at the Bureau meeting... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ... She made the decision to have one of the biggest cyber security specialists in this room... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...Mr Michał Grammar is excluded from the Digitization Commission in which he works. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So, please, right now... [[But he's not our Member.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] This is simply hindering the work (the bell) of one of the better Members. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] What you're doing is personal revenge. Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... So I'm asking you to print for... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u329	Madam President, this is not a formal proposal and I will not put it to the vote. We're back to point two of order... [[With a formal application, may I?]] I'm asking you to sign up for formal applications. There was only one formal conclusion. There you go. [[Does your marshal know that a formal application cannot be signed up for a break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voices from the room: Mask! Mask!]] Speaking of the president, I would like to remind you... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, really. I don't hear anything. [[Voice from the room: But there is no mask.]] Mr President, you will turn to me. Put your mask on, or you'll be off the stand. I'll be back.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u331	There you go. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Very good.]] Who is included in the formal application? There are no Members registered for formal applications. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: I'm saved, Marshal.]] [[In corrigendum mode. I promise you...]] No, sir, please. [[But it has to be explained, because the truth hasn't been...]] There you go, Mr. Cezary Tomczyk with a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In corrigendum mode. I would just like to say - I think it should be clear to everyone - that Mr Grammar is not a member of our club. Therefore, we do not have the opportunity to refer him to the committee, nor do we have the opportunity to dismiss him from the committee. I wish that was clear. Let's tell each other the truth in this room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Kulesza in the mask. You're welcome. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u334	Thank you. In general, the mask is a very cool comedy film. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the proposal of the formal Madam-President of Gill-Friday and remind her of her vote when these principles, that the parliamentary wheels are excluded from many important committees such as the Commission for Digitisation, were applied at the beginning of the term of office to the Circle of the Polish Confederation. Then I didn't see the protests of President Gill-Friday. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] The members of the Confederation have been excluded from these committees and I have not seen any protest from the honourable Member, as can also be seen in the votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Indeed, a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u335	With the last formal proposal by Mr Klużna. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am making a request and, at the same time, I have a request to change the way the debate is conducted in such key issues, because today we will vote on the IPN, and in particular... [[This is not a debate.]] You don't mind. ... The Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. When we said this here, from this speaker, that a strong state must be built on the truth, we said that a strong state must be built on justice, we said that our political environment with Mr Jarosław Kaczyński did not stand on this side, among others. Because he has a different attitude to the past, and finally when we said we had to... [[Because you're on Russia's side.]] ...explain the circumstances of the death of Fr. A dry-haired man, Fr. Balnicki, Fr. Błaszczak, when we talked about all this, unfortunately this debate was conducted by Marshal Czarzasty, who is from this environment, who obviously did not regret his choosy comments and who tells himself that he is a communist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Mr... I don't think Mr. Marshal Czarzasty should be conducting such a discussion in this Seym. Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u337	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, we are not having any discussion. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1335-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u338	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit an additional report to the Public Finance Committee... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Louder.]] ...about a government bill amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Louder or take off the mask.]] ...the system of guaranteeing deposits and compulsory restructuring and certain other laws in print No 1164. The Sejm shall meet at its 34th meeting on 7 July 2021 in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 1335 to the Committee on Public Finance to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering 8 amendments at its meeting on 7 July 2021, proposes that they be rejected and that amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 be put together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u339	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1335. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to the added point 22a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 174 - for, 266 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 72 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 52 for, 377 against, 14 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 96b. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 50 for, 391 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 96c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 50 for, 390 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 21. Amendments 6 to 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 5 to 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 204 - for, 236 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1335, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 434 - for, 1 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1295-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the second reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws, 45 amendments were made. Today, the joint committees: the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry have examined the amendments tabled. Following their consideration, the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt amendments: 1, 2, 4, 7, 12, 14, 17, 20, 21, 24, 29, 31, 34, 36 and 40 and reject amendments 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 35, 37, 38, 39, 41 and 42. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u341	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1295. The committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 36 were tabled in Article. 1 containing amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Law in the municipalities. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The amended act shall propose amendments to paragraph 2. 3b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 443 was for, no one was against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2a The amended act shall propose amendments to paragraph 2. 1 and 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 439 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 The amended act proposes that the applicant delete the added point 6b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 4 and 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 22 - for, 391 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 3 (1) (a) Point 6b and Article 2. 6d paragraph. Paragraph 4 (7) of the Amending Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 5 and 16. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 317 - for, 1 - against, 124 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 5. the amendment is without object. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3 The amended act shall propose a new wording to the applicant. 2d. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 18 - for, 418 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 4 in paragraph 2. 2a of the amended law propose to add point 6. - Eight. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 8th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 315 - for, 2 - against, with 122 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 8. the amendment is without object. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 4b amended law. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will make the 10th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 205 - for, 232 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 4b of the amended law, applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 207 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 6th Amendment Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 13 - for, against - 427, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 6c of the amended act, applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph 1. 2b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 6c of the amended act propose that the added paragraphs be deleted. 3a-3d. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 14 and 15 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 10 for, 428 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 6c of the amended act propose to add paragraph. 3a-3e. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will result in an unobtrusive 15th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 303 - for, against - 11, 126 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 15 has become pointless. Amendment 16 has also become pointless. In the 17th amendment to the article. 6j paragraph. 1 of the amended act, applicants propose amendments to point 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 209 - for, 229 - against, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 11 for, 430 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th Amendment... [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal, please note that there are people in the Chamber who are not Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if there are people in the courtroom who are not Members, I would ask you to move on to the clowns. [[It's the minister's voice.]] [[Voice from the hall: It's for the carriage.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone... [[Voice from the room: Is there a rule book or not?]] [[Voice from the hall: But he's a minister.]] Please don't get feverish, please, okay? If someone isn't an MP, go into the cockroaches, and if anyone is a minister, please sit down here. In the 19th amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicants propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will make the 20th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 212 - for, 226 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicant shall propose an amendment to paragraph 1. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 316 - for, 1 - against, with 123 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicants propose amendments to paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will make the 22nd amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 302 for, 140 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicants propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 3b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 211-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 3ba-3bc. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will make the 25th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 308 - for, 2 - against, with 132 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 25 has become pointless. In the 26th amendment to the article. 6j of the amended act, the applicants propose to delete the added paragraph. 3f. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 205-- for, 232 was against, six stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 6k paragraph. 2a of the amended act, the applicant shall propose an amendment to points 3 and 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 28th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 134 - for, 264 - against, 44 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 6k paragraph. 2a of the amended law propose to maintain the wording of point 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 9 for, against - 428, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 6o of the amended act, the applicants propose, inter alia, to add paragraph 1. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 30th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 300 for, no one was against, 140 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 30th amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 31st amendment to Article. 6q of the amended act, the applicant shall propose an amendment to the added paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 437 - for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 6q of the amended law propose to add paragraph. 4 and 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 209 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. 6r of the amended act propose amendments to paragraph. 2da, paragraph 2. 3a and 3b, as well as to add paragraph. 3aa. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 34 and 35. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 204 for, 230 against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. 6r of the amended act propose amendments to paragraph. 2da, paragraph 2. 3a and 3b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 35th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted 257 - in favour, 3 against - with 181 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 35 has become unobtrusive. In the 36th amendment to the article. The 10th amended act shall propose amendments to paragraph 1. 2b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 437 for, 3 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 37 to 40 were tabled in Article. 3, including amendments to the Waste Act. In the 37th amendment, applicants propose to add amendments to the Article. 41 of the amended act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 440 Members, 10 in favour, 429 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. 42 of the amended law, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 11 - for, 427 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The amended act proposes that the applicant should reword point 11. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 204 - for, 236 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 317-- for, no one was against, there was a hold-up of 120. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 41st amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose that the wording of paragraph be reworded. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 200 for, 232 against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 42nd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 4a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 203 - for, 229 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws in print no. 1295, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 382 - for, against - 14, 47 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities, the Environmental Law and the Waste Act. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Act on Local Taxation and Charges. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1370-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Act on Local Taxation and Charges. This is print number 1228. The Commissions: Public Finance and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after considering three amendments at its meeting on 8 July 2021, propose that all three amendments be rejected and the whole of the draft adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u343	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1370. The committees also present in an additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on local taxes and charges. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. Amendment of point 1 of Article. Paragraph 7 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 207 - for, 232 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to amend point 3 of Article. Paragraph 7 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 202 - for, 232 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a-3f to Article 3a-3f 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 201 - for, against - 233, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the whole draft law in print No. 1370 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 242 - for, 1 - against, abstained from 199. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on local taxes and charges. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 1369-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On yesterday's additional meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, three amendments of the Parliamentary Club Polska 2050 to the draft law on parliamentary printing no. 1346 were examined. All amendments were rejected. The Commission recommends that the High Sejm adopt the entire draft law amending the Act on the monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and certain other laws from print No. 1369-A. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u345	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1369. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In Amendment 1. to Article. 1 point 30 (a) b first indent of the draft law, the applicant proposes a new wording of the explanation of the symbol "S'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 49 for, 237 against, 154 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. In Article 1, point 33 of the draft law, applicants shall propose that: 37a add paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 50 for, against - 225, 161 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 3, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 21a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who doesn't work? Everything's working. 443 Members voted. 52 for, against - 229, 162 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1369, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 434 - for, 8 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the monitoring and control system for the quality of fuels and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. [[The voice in the courtroom: Marshal, I had a question.]] During the second reading, applications were submitted for rejection of the draft law in its entirety and for immediate accession to the third reading of the draft law without referring the draft law back to the committee. An objection has been raised in the light of the request for immediate accession to the third reading of the draft law. [[Iza, go. That's not very nice on the bench.]] I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has re-directed the bill to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We proceed with the vote on... [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, question.]] No, there is no question, Madame. [[But why?]] That's because, according to the regulations, I don't allow them. We proceed with the vote on the proposal. [[Voice from the hall:...finance of the state.]] Member, please sit down, please. [[But this is a normal Sejm, not a COVID.]] That's because I don't allow questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[But why?]] There's a vote. [[Voice from the court: Marshal, you are destroying the state's finances.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal to join the third reading of the bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is for immediate accession to the third reading of the bill without sending the bill back to the committee would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 228 - for, 208 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the third reading. I will now put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the proposal contained in the committee's report irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 208 - for, 228 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1371. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1371, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 227 for, 208 against, 6 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1290-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the day yesterday, at the second reading of the government draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws, nine amendments were made to this project. Today, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy have examined these amendments and recommend that the High House adopt amendments 1, 6, 8 and 9, reject amendments 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 and, of course, adopt the entire draft law contained in the committee's report in print 1290. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u347	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1290. The committees also present in an additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Real Estate Management Act. In the 1st amendment to e.g. Article 2 59 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 2 and add paragraph 2. 2a. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I think I need to go to your place.]] That was ridiculous, sir. It's your duty to obey the Marshal's orders. And sit down and don't argue with me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: You are only temporary.]] [[Voice from the room: You're only here for a year.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Marshal of the Sejm also includes art. 231 Criminal Code.]] 443 Members voted. 273 - for, 162 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. 55a paragraph. 1, first sentence and paragraph. 2. [[Voice from the room: Tablets took and...]] The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 212 for, 227 against, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 207 - for, 228 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to repeal Article. 60b. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 213 for, 227 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 190a delete the words "and the National Property Resources'. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 83 - for, 235 - against, 124 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 191 applicants propose a different wording of paragraph. 7. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 300 for, against - 136, 7 abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Your marshal, with a formal motion.]] In the 7th amendment to the article. 3 Act on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship propose not to add paragraph. 2aa. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 210 - for, against - 226, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 8a to the draft amending act. The committees are asking for her party. [[Your marshal, with a formal motion.]] After that vote, Member. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 243 - for, 148 - against, 50 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Formal proposal, Mrs Pomaska. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are now voting on the amendments and we are about to vote on the entire very important law. I'll tell you why in a minute. The formal proposal concerns the question of changing the way in which the proceedings are conducted, because I believe that this is a law in which there must be room for questions to be asked. And justification: Today we learned that in the place of memory, which is Westerplatte, instead of the museum, apartments are to be built. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The law we're now investigating will allow the voivods to take over the property. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the PiS room.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You'll have a place to work.]] Minister Gliński, please leave and tell me whether you will withdraw from this decision to build apartments in Westerplatte or if you will intervene in any way, because this is an absolute scandal. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This is not the way to be the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u349	Mrs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course, there you go, Prime Minister Gliński. On the other hand, it was not a formal proposal, and you know it very well. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't argue with me. I'm telling you this again. Either you listen or you leave. [[And I will, because I'm an MP, people chose me.]] There you go, Prime Minister Gliński. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! She knows very well that there has been a communication on this issue for several hours. This is a communiqué from the Ministry of Culture. [[Freedom Union.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do you want to speak now, or am I speaking? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How was Balcerowicz on the list?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: I would like to speak.]] Well, let's see if we can find out who's speaking, Marshal. Wait a minute, there was a request for the Prime Minister to come out and answer. The Prime Minister left to answer. If you don't want to hear the answer, don't ask any more questions. Please, Prime Minister. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: The message is clear. [[Voice from the hall: But about Balcerowicz be offended?]] There will be no guest rooms built there. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: They'll be here by the hour.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: An hour.]] [[Banas was interested.]] However, I remind you that such apartments were actually built by your political team at the Museum of World War II. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There were two-storey apartments, 110 m2 for the local management. [[On Westerplatte you want...]] Mrs. Member! You want to start a fight in the Polish Sejm again. [[But who came up with that idea? We want an explanation.]] I repeat, there's been an announcement for hours that explains the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u351	Thank you, Prime Minister. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 9 draft amending act. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 361 - for, no one was against, 78 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Did they build you a castle?]] [[The voice from the hall: Fame, and... did you take it?]] We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1290, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 236 - for, against - 164, 38 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1088. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.1088, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 419 - for, 7 - against, abstained from 7. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on State Labour Inspection. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Act - Water Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1281. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1281, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 243 - for, 125 - against, holding 73. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Water Law. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on groups of agricultural producers and their associations and amending other laws and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1359. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1359, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on groups of agricultural producers and their associations and amending other laws and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Chambers and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1360-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Bąk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In the second reading of the government draft law amending the Agricultural Chambers Act and some other laws, print No 1339, five amendments were submitted to this draft. After careful consideration of these amendments, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recommends to the High House that all these amendments be rejected in the joint vote. At the same time, the committee recommends that the whole draft law be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u353	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1360. At the same time, the Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Agricultural Chambers Act. In the first amendment to Article. 35b applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 1b. Amendments 2 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 84 for, 230 against, 128 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1360, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 418 - for, 8 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Agricultural Chambers Act and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on an urgent government draft law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1374. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1374, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 246 - for, 2 - against, abstained from 191. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity of Witold Pilecki and some other laws. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. Following the request to proceed without delay to the third reading of the draft law without referring to the committee after the statement of amendments had been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. I will put this proposal to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has re-directed this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is for immediate accession to the third reading of the bill without sending the draft back to the committee after serving you and your fellow Members with a set of amendments, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 233 - for, 199 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the third reading. A summary of the amendments tabled was sent to the Members for printing No 1386. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1341. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of the name Witold Pilecki. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 4c. 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 83 - for, 238 - against, 121 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8 by adding point 6a, the applicant shall propose a provision concerning the submission of an annual report on the activities of the Sejm Institute to the committees. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 439 - for, against - 1, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. 3 and 4 of the bill. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 160 - for, 271 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1341, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 389 - for, 38 - against, suspended 12. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of Witold Pilecki and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy (prints 1101, 1147 and 1147-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to present an additional report to the committee. [[It's an even bigger granda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy, print no. 1101. [[Voice from the hall: Zamoyski is not proud of this idea.]] At its 30th meeting on 20 May 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1147 to the committee in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 21 May 2021, asks the High Sejm to reject all three amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u355	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1147. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, please. The members of the Confederation are without masks. This can't be right. Pay their attention.]] I would like to address the members of the Confederation: I am really tired of the fact that you are not following what I am asking, which is the result of the order. I ask all members of the Confederation to wear masks or to wait, not to vote, in the cockroaches. Please, otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to have to apply the appropriate penalty. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr Siarkowska from PiS is better in this regard?]] 440 Members voted. 214 - for, 219 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. [[Voice from the hall: Yes, say, say.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr Siarkowska... also without a mask.]] Mother, worse than kindergarten, really. Worse than kindergarten. [[Put the mask on.]] I promise you, ladies and gentlemen... A little more serious. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and... [[Who authorized you? Who are you to judge if we're kindergarteners?]] I'm a Marshal of the Sejm, sir. I'm in charge of the deliberations, and it's your duty to obey the Marshal's orders. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: And we are messengers.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you are without a mask - I do not see everyone - please wear it. We're all under the same order. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: Can PiS Members be without masks in the Seym?]] [[Yeah, they can, 'cause they're from the PiS.]] [[Mr Siarkowska is also without a mask.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ma'am, and they don't have masks.]] [[Voice from the room: I'm very sorry, but I'm sick and asthmatic. And I'm really tired of it, and I'm doing everything I can not just sit around with it. Yeah, I'm sorry, but... I'm going out on the stand in a mask.]] Mr... [[Voice from the Chamber: But not only Mr Siarkowska.]] [[A kindergarten teacher.]] 441 Members voted. 213 - for, 221 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 7 applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 212 - for, 221 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1147, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Mr Siarkowska without a mask.]] 439 Members voted. For-- 233, 204-- against, two stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the Zamość Academy. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, you have to react.]] If it is true that Mrs Siarkowska is without a mask... Exactly the same applies to you: either put it on, Member, or leave. You have exactly the same order. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: She's out.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: You're losing most of it.]] We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on wine products. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the bill to the Public Finance Commission in addition. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. [[Voice from the room: Eight more would have been thrown out.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr Janowska.]] If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal for an opinion by the Sejm Bureau has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the hall: Hello, there's another one without a mask.]] [[Mrs Janowska.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Public Finance Committee of the draft Act No. 1314 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Mr Janowska without a mask.]] [[Mr Janowska without a mask.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's be serious.]] 437 Members voted. 436 - for, no one was against, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the proposal and thus additionally sent the draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. On the basis of art... [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down. [[Your Marshal...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs Janowska.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can't hear my own voice. Calm down. [[Voice from the room: Please take care of our safety.]] On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 16 September 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020 (print No 1140) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 1209) - vote. An objection has been raised in the light of the committee's proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the information contained in print 1140 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 231 - for, 205 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm has accepted the information. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General about the actions taken by the prosecutor's office in the period from 4 March 2016 in order to issue an order refusing to investigate or investigate; redemption of an investigation or investigation; withdrawal of an indictment; referral to the court of application referred to in Article. 5 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Act - Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on the Rights of Patient and Ombudsperson of Patients (Journal of Laws). from 2016 poz. 1070) in all cases in which Daniel Obajtek - the current President of the Polish oil company ORLEN S.A. - was suspected or accused. At the 33rd meeting, the Sejm heard the information submitted by the first Deputy Prosecutor General Bogdan Święczkowski and held a discussion during which a request for rejection was submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject the information of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 176, 249 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints Nos 1361 and 1365). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 Constitution and Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman, the Sejm shall appoint the Ombudsman with the consent of the Senate. The groups of Members have submitted their candidacy for the post of Ombudsman of Mr Marcin Wieck. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, Coalition Parliamentary Club Left (New Left, PPS, Together, Spring of Robert Biedron), Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, Polish Parliamentary Circle The candidacy of Mr Marcin Wiącka will be presented by Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present Professor Marcin Wieck's candidacy for the Ombudsman's office. Professor Marcin Wiącek was born in 1982 in Minsk Mazowiecki. In 2006 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. In 2009, he defended his PhD in this department. In 2013, after the habilitation colloquium, he received the title of Doctor of Habitated Legal Sciences. In 2019 he was employed as a professor at the University of Warsaw. He heads the Department of Human Rights at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. He's a lawyer with a lot of experience. It meets all statutory requirements: integrity of its action, substantive preparation. He is a specialist in constitutional law and human rights. It has over 100 publications in its scientific work. He worked at the Constitutional Court. He's an employee of the Supreme Administrative Court. As part of his experience he can boast of activities in the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers. He was the head of the legislative application. It has a great deal of work in the field of opinion on many legal acts, but most importantly, it has a very good opinion on its acquis and legal knowledge. Professor Marcin Wiącek can also boast that after a year, after five attempts, we approach the sixth attempt to choose an ombudsman, I hope that a successful one, and this can be demonstrated by the outcome of the vote in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, where the Professor obtained support. It was very important that we tirelessly sought to elect an ombudsman in a constitutional manner. This is one of the most important bodies appointed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Trials have been unsuccessful so far because politicians, regardless of the environment, have not been able to reach an agreement. Now we have reached an agreement and I would like to thank all those who have brought this up and supported this candidacy very warmly that we have managed our own ambitions, often our own beliefs and the choice of ideal candidates for our environment can stop and choose a candidate who will not be an advocate of views, will not be a spokesperson of any political party, but will be a very good advocate of civil rights. Such a candidate is Prof. Marcin Wiącek, whom I recommend to the High House and I ask for your support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u357	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has examined the proposal to appoint Prof. Marcin Wieck as ombudsman on 6 July. During the committee meeting, Prof. Wiącek presented his vision of the Ombudsman's office, indicating, among others, to protect against exclusion, in particular disabled persons, seniors or poor people. The professor also pointed out that protection against discrimination based on religion, skin color or sexual orientation would be extremely important for him. What is important, Prof. Więcek also pointed out as one of his directions the determination to work on improving dialogue between citizens and individual institutions of public authority. The discussions and questions at the committee's meeting so far resulted in an unprecedented and consistent approach to the resolution of this ombudsman, which has been around 1.5 years since the election of the ombudsman. Members representing different clubs also shared the concern that the procedure for selecting an ombudsman in no way should fail to comply with what constitutes the letter of the Constitution. As a result, High Izbo, we had a trans-political agreement, a trans-political consensus which appeared in an exceptionally consistent vote: 15 Members supported Professor Wiącko's candidacy, 4 abstained and only 1 Member was against it. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after recognition of the above-mentioned Committee on Justice and Human Rights. the proposal at its meeting on 6 July 2021 and the discussion decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Marcin Wiącka's candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u359	Thank you. We have reports of MPs. I therefore propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is our sixth debate on the election of the Ombudsman. This is a disgrace to our House. Unfortunately, you are responsible for this. [[Voice from the room: You didn't choose a few times.]] I am very sorry that you proposed politicians because you wanted to politicize this office. You wanted to salute the office of ombudsman, just like you vassaled the office of ombudsman, ombudsman, and many other institutions. Fortunately, we managed to defend the Ombudsman's office. Poles deserve an ombudsman, not a ombudsman. This isn't supposed to be an institution to defend your interests. I am glad that we have finally been able to agree that you have listened to all these debates. Maybe you've been questioning them, maybe you've read the protocols, and you've realized that the spokesperson is here to uphold citizens' rights, so that's 70,000. matters that affect the Ombudsman were heard regardless of what options people write about them. Better late than never. It's a really good choice. I am very pleased that Prof. Wiącka's candidacy is gaining broad support. We've seen this candidacy before. Today I hope there will be a broad agreement. I hope that the Senate will also agree to this candidacy and that we will have an ombudsman. This is a really important moment. I thank Professor Bodnar at this point, too, for the very brave exercise of this office, in difficult times when the fight for human rights is not easy when as a parliamentary majority You really do a lot to trample on citizens' rights, human rights, as well as the rights of judges and prosecutors. Adam Bodnar was always on the side of these injured minorities. Mr President, you've made a mistake. We're picking someone else tonight. Today we choose Professor Wiącka. Mr. Marshal may have decided that earlier, but he didn't read his resume. Only now have you found out, and I am very pleased that Mr. Marshal has decided to support this good candidacy. Mr. President, let's get to the point. I want you to introduce the candidate, not tell a story. I believe that there are many challenges facing the Ombudsman, and Prof. Więcek will guarantee the independence of this institution. I hope that the High House will vote today and that we can have an ombudsman before this discrediting verdict, which will enter into force on 15 July, because it really is your responsibility too. It's a disgrace that you're responsible for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u361	Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I move on to the presentation of the Left's position, I would just like to say that in the last vote on the information of the Minister of Justice, the prosecutor general of a dozen Members of the Left voted in error and this will be corrected. On the other hand, going to the candidacy of Prof. Wiącka: ladies and gentlemen, I feel that for the sixth time we are participating on groundhog day. We participate in the sixth approach to the election of the Ombudsman. I hope that this will be the last vote, not because this office is important for Members, Members or politicians, but above all because this office is very important, most important for citizens and citizens. Citizens are waiting for this Ombudsman to be appointed because, under the Constitution, they have the right to complain and seek legal assistance from an independent body. The Left will vote in favour of Professor Wiącko's candidacy because he is an independent specialist, a lawyer who has specialized in matters of freedom and civil rights for years and is independent, and the quality of independence is the most important in the exercise of his duties as ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u363	Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u364	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll tell you a story. On the wall there is a map of Poland, and on it - evenly, densely mounted pins. This was the most memorable after a visit to a typical, official office of the Ombudsman just ending his term of office - a term open to others, heard in a public voice. These pins are places and people whom the spokesperson and employees of his office have visited in recent years, listening to complaints, getting to know ordinary extraordinary heroes and heroes of local Poland. This map is an image of our country, whose successes and failures translate into the joys and dramas of its citizens and citizens. The Ombudsman's Office is a place where great legal-philosophical concepts, such as personal dignity, equality between men and women and the right to social security, intertwine with ordinary stories of citizens and citizens, such as the history of the Roma of Maszkowice, whose local government deprived of their place of residence, using the building law or Thomas of Łomża representing fathers deprived of the right to contact and care for their children after divorce. Ladies and gentlemen! Does it matter from what sources each and every one of us has its values, or does it matter that we share them? It is in man and in protecting his dignity that we find our values today, our nation (the bell), our state and the spokesperson of our rights. Therefore, in the name of these values, today let us choose together the guardian of our rights and freedoms. And the gentleman... [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: There's no more noise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u365	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u366	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Why did the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives report - as well as today asking for his support - Mr Marcin Wiącka for the office of Ombudsman? Because first of all, it was necessary to end the ongoing crisis around this office, because the professor is the right man in the right place, because Poles and Poles today need a functioning, developing, as Prof. Więcek, the Ombudsman's office with delegations, has spoken of many times, which will open this office to help Poles and Poles. We very much ask the High House to support the appointment of the Professor for the office of Ombudsman. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports Prof. Marcin Wiąck. He's a lawyer, a scientist, a specialist in constitutional law and human rights. He knows how to effectively pursue civil rights. It guarantees that in its actions it will be independent, independent and apolitical. That's what I said on June 15th. The fact that the candidate gives the guarantee of independence, independence, apoliticality made Mr Marek Suski laugh. Ha, ha, ha - that's how the seym transcript defines your behaviour, Mr. President. That's when you laughed, but a few days later you signed up for an application to support this candidate as an ombudsman. It's a wonderful conversion. Professor, this is a great success for you. You have also converted the management of the Parliament's Justice Commission to the proper, legal and civil railroads. Chairman of the Marek Committee Ast said it was a thoughtful change. Today is finally a great chance to show that from left to right we can work beyond divisions. I have no doubt that Marcin Wiącek is the right candidate for the Ombudsman. His announcement at the session of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice was convincing that he would be an independent lawyer for the whole society. Marcin Wiącek promised that, according to the constitution, a man would be most important to him, a sense of his harm, exclusion and powerlessness. Therefore, I will repeat the words said earlier: The Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 is convinced, each of our Members, that any person seeking support, regardless of political views and religious, cultural, national or sexual identity, will be able to see in it an ombudsman of his rights. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u369	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, a new circle. I've got a PS written on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we're all hoping to finally pick an ombudsman today. Poles want it, too. That is why we are pleased that Prof. Więcek has also taken up the challenge this time and is running for a good position. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's put the party business in your pocket. This has not been successful in recent months, but I hope that this time we will finally choose a new ombudsman for all Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u371	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. 31 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be appointed by an absolute majority of the Ombudsman. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies... [[Voice from the courtroom: Wait a minute, Marshal.]] Please return to the O.R. [[The one without the mask.]] I understand you're all in the courtroom now. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Marcin Wieck as ombudsman would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 380 for, 3 against, with 43. The Sejm has appointed Mr Marcin Wiącek as Ombudsman. [[Some of the gathered get up, long-lasting applause.]] We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1384). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? [[Mr Hanna Gill-Friday: Your motion, Marshal.]] About what? [[Member Hanna Gill-Friday: Commission.]] There you go. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u372	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the vote be changed at this point. It is a separate vote on the appeal of Mr Michał Grammar from the Digital Commission. It's just amazing that in a time of cyber attacks on the government, you're getting rid of a specialist on such a crucial committee. This is your non-aggression pact. [[The voice from the hall: It's amazing to be so disloyal.]] Really, if you vote to expel Mr Michael Grammar from the Digitization Commission, it will be clear proof that you are not interested at all in the medical profession, that this is all politics. [[Voice from the room: Goodbye.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u373	Member, repeat what you have requested. Tell me what you're asking. [[Mr Hanna Gill-Friday gives a written request]] It is a separate vote on the appeal of Mr Michał Grammar from the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on State Control. We're gonna vote this out because it's a formal conclusion. I ask you, who is in favour of your request to vote separately on the appeal of Mr Michał Grammar from the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on State Control? Who's in favour of a separate vote? Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: But there is no...]] I know there isn't, ladies and gentlemen, and I have the same as you. You have to type in the description of this vote, so wait a second. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 166, against - 218, 27 stopped. The motion was rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1384, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 360 for, 26 against, 32 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 41 hrs. 17 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 22 of the agenda: Information from the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2020 Mon.: The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the work schedule for 2021 (Print No 1102) together with the position of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation (Print No 1179). I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski to present a report. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure, I have the honour to present information on the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2020. The year 2020 was another year in which the Maritime Offices carried out the Marine Coast Protection Programme. This year, the Maritime Offices in Gdynia and Szczecin carried out 17 tasks under the programme. These are extremely important tasks, ladies and gentlemen, linked to the climate challenges, to the challenges of natural elements that haunt the Baltic Sea every year. As a responsible government, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation ongiś, and today the Ministry of Infrastructure, must respond to these elements, challenges. Hence such investment momentum and hence such tasks. The budget law for 2020 envisages a total of PLN 34 million for the implementation of the programme. The tasks related to artificial beach power supply, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring of sea shores for less than PLN 34 million were carried out. The planned funds were used in 99%. And so on. The Maritime Office in Gdynia carried out artificial power in the area of Kadyna in Zalewie Wiślany, in the area of the Wiślana Bay of Gdańsk, in the Eastern Mountains and in the region of Gdynia Orłowo, and in the Hel Peninsula in the area of Władysławowo-Jurat. The aim of the activities was to rebuild natural forms of protection of shores, beaches, dunes and rew. In 2020 the coastline of the Fishermen's Angles was strengthened by the construction of a flood wall with a length of more than 100 m. Technology inputs were also built, e.g. in Gdynia Oxywiu and in the water area of Rozew, which are used by coast guard services and other rescue services in the framework of carrying out the statutory activities of the Maritime Authority in Gdynia and improving the safety of residents. In 2020, the Maritime Authority in Gdynia also carried out the following tasks. Construction of underwater thresholds Gdynia Orlovo. There, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very big problem with Klif Orłowski, who, as you know, is a nature reserve. We have a very strong emphasis on environmentalists not to carry out this type of activity there, hence indeed this, not another final nature action. Still, we're doing submarines further away from this cliff. Rewa's coastline is also strengthened. Making a shoreband. Renovation of the basis for shore strengthening in Jastrzębie Góra. Restoration of the drainage of the coast band in Rozewie, protecting the cliffs in Rozewie and nature reserve Cape Rozewski. In turn the Maritime Authority in Szczecin made artificial supply of banks in the village of Wicie and as a result of this retreat the beach was restored and the slope of the dunes along the beach was changed in order to gently connect the crown of the dunes with the beach. A shoreband was also made last year in Pogorzelica, which secures the shore on the west coast. The reconstruction of the wooden fence team was also completed, it is more than 50 pieces. an average length of approx. 110 m located east of Darlowo port at the height of the Kopań lake. This task was carried out for 3 years, but the scale was quite extensive and the front of the work advanced. In addition to these projects, maritime authorities monitored the seashore last year on the basis of data obtained by means of aerial laser scanning and photogrammetric aerial photographs, the state of technical control of marine shore protection structures, as well as other activities to prepare investments for implementation. With regard to the 2020 remodelling of the seabands in the Maritime Ustronia region, the investment was discontinued last year due to the lack of appropriate approvals and permissions for the start of the investment process. There is also, of course, an appeal to local governments, NGOs and parliamentarians, so that they do not believe in this information, that the marine shore protection programme can in any way disrupt the well-being of porpoises or seals living there. All these investments are crucial. The point is not to let the sea take us any more miles. And here I am asking for the support of local government officials to be on our side, because these are important things. This year, 34 million PLN is also planned for the implementation of tasks under the programme. The construction of artificial beach power supply, reconstruction and construction of shore reinforcements and monitoring of the seashore is planned. A total of PLN 911 million was foreseen in 2004 and 2023. In view of the above, I would very much like to ask you to accept this document: Information on the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2020.: The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the work schedule for 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u375	Thank you very much, Minister. I kindly ask Mr Szałabawka to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u376	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation of the multi-annual programme in 2020 under the name "Marine Coast Protection Programme" and the work schedule for 2021, in print Nos 1102 and 1179. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent this information to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration on 14 April 2021. The information received clearly shows that the maritime coast protection programme has been properly implemented and continues. Suggestions have been made on the issue of co-financing. The point is, maybe there's not enough money in the budget to protect the shores of the sea. The committee was talking... There were also raised questions about the earnings of maritime officials, workers employed by maritime offices. Those wages are too low, too. This has no impact on the Marine Coast Protection Programme, but such suggestions were made during the committee meeting. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Navigation considered this information at its meeting on 19 May 2021. In the course of the discussion, the committee requested that the information submitted be accepted. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to accept the information contained in print 1102. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Artur Szałabawek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u378	The position of the Law and Justice Club shall be the same as that adopted by the committee which requests the adoption by the High Chamber of information contained in the printing concerned. On the other hand, this information that I would like to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club is literally the same, because these are just numbers. It is about the 34 million PLN that were invoked, of which 33.919 million PLN was realised. So these planned funds have been used. The Minister said they were used in 99%, and the data I have is 99.8%. It can also be noted that these funds were divided into the Maritime Office in Gdynia - it is all the investments that the Minister mentioned - and the Maritime Office in Szczecin - similarly I will not now, at the moment, duplicate, recall all these investments. In any event, the Law and Justice Club invites the High House to adopt information on the Marine Coast Protection Programme in 2020 and the work schedule for 2021. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u379	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Artur Łącki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition's position on the adoption of information from the implementation of the multi-annual programme in 2020 under the name "Marine Coast Protection Programme" and the work schedule for 2021, prints No 1102 and 1179. The 2003 multiannual Maritime Coast Protection Programme aims to strengthen and maintain the coastal flood protection system, stabilise the coastline, prevent erosion and disappearance of beaches and degradation of cliffs. Please, High House, the erosion process of the shores is accelerating. The warmer winters, the lack of negative temperatures and the lack of ice cover in winter reduce the resistance of the shore to washing. The result is a serious flood risk of coastal areas, and most of the Polish shore are erosion sections. It is a program whose conscientious implementation is in the interest of Poland and, above all, in the interest of residents and entrepreneurs of the coastal belt, who have a more than 4% share in the creation of Polish GDP. The programme is financed from the state budget and from other sources. The maximum budgetary expenditure limit for the whole period of implementation for the years 2004 to 2023 is PLN 911 million, with a minimum annual amount of PLN 34 million. According to the government's information on the activities of the Gdynia Maritime Office in 2020, 12 tasks were planned and carried out under this programme for a total amount of around 14 600 000. zł. On the other hand, the Maritime Office in Szczecin carried out 5 tasks for the amount of PLN 19 million. Total spent exactly PLN 33 919 510, so almost 100% a statutory provision setting the minimum expenditure threshold for each year of application of the programme has been implemented. It is not known how many investments would have been made by the Maritime Authority in Słupsk if it had been given an opportunity, but this maritime office was abolished as of 1 April 2020. It is a pity, because the maritime office was abolished with the most friendly citizens, local governments and local authorities, whose management and employees were able to reconcile the protection of the sea shores and other legal obligations with the well-understood interest of local communities. Both members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and Members from outside these committees, such as Mr Zbyszek Konwiński, a Member from Słupsk, who knows this office and the people working there, sought to leave the Maritime Office in Słupsk. Unfortunately, Minister Grybarczyk probably just since the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk decided to start the reunion on an evenly slippery slope, ending with the liquidation of his ministry, which was undoubtedly very important for the inhabitants of Pomerania, Central Pomerania and Western Pomerania. I live by the sea myself, I talk to entrepreneurs every day who run their companies by the sea. Every day I meet local government officials trying to make investments that require the opinion of the Maritime Office in Szczecin or to cooperate with it. They all claim that the maritime office, yes, protects the sea shores, but not so much from the elements as from local communities and tourists. Sometimes it may seem that officials would like to close the beach and access to the sea for outsiders, and they would patrol the shores on their parade quads and look for dangers. According to my interlocutors, the activities of the maritime authorities in some areas qualify as classic showering. Officials dig themselves up at once, don't let them think they can be most wrong in the world. In many cases they do art for art, and they are quite convinced that they are fulfilling their mission to protect the sea shores. Entrepreneurs operating on the beach must go through the gehenna of completing dozens of permits and arrangements each year, with most of the same entrepreneurs applying each year to the same officials for the same permits and arrangements. On this occasion, I would like to appeal to the workers of the maritime office for greater empathy for entrepreneurs and a willingness to cooperate with local authorities. We're all in the same boat. This piece of Poland could also be legally regulated. There is administrative and ownership chaos in the coastal area. It is not known which piece of land belongs to or turns out to be managed by several institutions. And this is a maritime office, and these are State Forests, where the Ministry of National Defence, not to mention the army, old age and voivodeship. Making any investments on beaches and beaches alone is a miracle and I am not talking about building skyscrapers. It is about such prosaic and necessary things as sidewalks, bike paths, beach descents, disabled exits, public toilets, etc., things that no tourist community can do without. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It often takes months, if not years, to agree on the conditions of the regular sidewalk. Entrepreneurs operating on the beach, as a rule, on the basis of several years of contracts, must pass every year... Mr. President, it's time. ...the same procedures, even though they recreate the same - the last sentence of your marshal - objects each year. Last one. Someone's gonna ask what I'm talking about. It was a question mark. It's not about that. But that's what this is about, because throwing logs under the feet of entrepreneurs is under the pretext of protecting the sea shores. Last sentence. Thank you. But that's the third last one. Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition, knowing that the protection of the sea shores is one of the few areas of the economy that have not yet been completed, without great enthusiasm, but will vote in favour of this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the position of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It so happened that in the case of information concerning this programme, representatives of all clubs are representatives from the Western Pomeranian Voivodeship, so don't be surprised that Mr Łącki talks so emotionally about all these matters as an entrepreneur, because every day we experience contacts and with sea shores, and with the administration of maritime offices. And there's actually a lot of reservations there. We would like to draw attention to this by presenting the position of the Left Club on the multi-annual Maritime Coast Protection Programme, that this programme has been implemented since 2004, because the law implementing this programme was adopted in 2003. We note that from 2003 to today it has been 18 years, and therefore all external circumstances have changed, as well as issues related to investments, technologies and prices, for example. Therefore, the first general comment is: Are the 34 million zlotys per year that we spend on this programme sufficient? In our view, they are absolutely insufficient, all the more so because we see what is happening with regard to climate change; we see what is happening with regard to the erosion of the sea shores; we see that water takes away several dozen hectares of land every year, and therefore these expenditures should certainly be much higher. Of course, the question arises as to whether these are just expenditures that should be included in the state budget, or whether we should not, given the ecology, make much more use of European funds and funds, because this is a very important task, which, as far as this green governance policy is concerned, will be implemented. This is, of course, a question of how the Ministry approaches this, how these actions want to lead. In this context, there is no doubt that one conclusion from this document is that these resources are insufficient and that it may be worthwhile, because this programme is planned until 2023, to think about what to do in 2022 and 2023. As for the programme itself and the execution, the Minister and the previous speakers said that the program is implemented virtually 100%. But we do notice that planning seems to be failing somewhere. If we analyze tables and tasks, we see that some of the tasks that were included in the initial plan were not accomplished, while some of the tasks appeared during the year, and therefore the question is probably whether some mistakes are being made somewhere in this planning, and perhaps it is what we are talking about here, that this reorganisation, when it comes to the naval offices and the liquidation of the office in Słupsk, has also caused some perturbation. So I think that we will strongly suggest that, as far as these tasks are concerned for 2021, really at the moment we are looking at - half of the year - which of these tasks is being carried out and how this investment process is going to take place, all the more so because we know very well how prices have increased in terms of materials and services, so we probably need to consider which of these tasks can be really achieved in 2021. With regard to the position of the Left Club on this programme and this information, with the comments we are talking about, however, in order to reflect on the increase in expenditure for the following years, the Left Club will vote in favour of the report on the "Marine Coast Protection Programme" and the work schedule for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u383	Thank you very much. Great timing. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland, will present its position. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u384	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe I will start with how the Polish Coalition club will behave against this information. As my previous speaker said, with this information in mind, we will also vote in favour. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to have a discussion. Here one topic was already raised, the subject of the liquidation of the Maritime Office in Słupsk. Looking at this area, on the sea coast area, Minister, I will allow myself, on my own assessment, that this was not a good decision from the point of view of the current policy in the area of maritime planning as regards our part, Szczecin, West Pomerania, or Gdańsk, Gdynia and the part which Słupsk was taking over. Such reflection will probably come in time, perhaps there is already such reflection, that this way of impact was the best. Allow me, Minister, to convey that thought. On the other hand, this deeper thought is related to what Mr Wieczorek has already started, namely, ladies and gentlemen, but we see that not only these weather processes, but also, above all, in the longer term, climate change causes us not so much to worry about in the future, as will concern us with the problem that will be associated with rising sea levels. And the question is, how are we going to prepare ourselves in our strategy, knowing that today these maps are being drawn out in terms of the future. Today we must take this into account in our strategy, but we must also take this into account in financial spending, because let me say that this 34 million, Minister, is a highly unsatisfactory amount in the future. It needs to increase dramatically if we want to take care not only of the possessions and safety of the people living there, because these people living in this lane, let's say there are not so many, but also of those, and there are a huge number of those who would like to use these places, even as part of tourism at a certain time of the year, throughout the year or during the season. That is why it seems to me, Minister, that this thought I would like to convey is above all that we should start to protect not only the beaches, but also the sea shores just as part of this strategy, which may be a strategy for the future, in the perspective of the 30s, 40s, 50s. In fact, today we need to think about the fact that each of these investments, which will be carried out in the coming years, should take into account what maybe is still very far away today, and it must be carried out with this in mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u385	Thank you, sir. The position of the Poselski Circle Poland 2050 will be presented by Michał Gramatyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u386	I'm coming. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle Poland 2050, thank you very much for presenting the information from the implementation of the program. At first glance everything is okay - the plan was done flawlessly and even saved some resources. However, I would like to draw your attention to some of the challenges of our time, which I think have been overlooked in this report. Scientists from the University of Gdansk predict that when the average sea level rises by 60.80 cm, during storms some districts of the city will simply be flooded. They add that we can face such a threat in the last decade of the century. I cannot see in this report such a comprehensive approach that would take account of such forecasts. Nature doesn't know administrative divisions. Strengthening one shore area always means increasing pressure on neighbouring parts. Dividing the entire project into sections corresponding to the area of activity of the various maritime authorities without continuous monitoring, without continuous monitoring of the impact of the completed works on the remaining parts of the coast simply drives the mechanism of costly and endless repairs. Each of them will require new investments. Such a holistic holistic approach is essential. Some parts of the world are on fire, others are flooded, and that's what's happening today. This climate disaster is something that's happening right in front of us. The local addition of concrete to the sea, or the embedding of boulders, or the sanding of this threat will not be eliminated. I'm worried that in this report with the candle, we're looking for methods of biotechnical protection. It is a taste for hard investment, and the word "nature" does not fall in this report once. Just like the words "climate crisis." Although in the Minister's speech those words fell and here chapeau bass. Investment decisions should be assessed not only by engineers but also by hydrodynamics, geomorphologists, environmentalists. However, experts on the subject show that environmental impact assessments are often not even made. This is also apparent from the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2019. Not to mention assessing the effectiveness of selected security methods. Thank you again for this report, for this program. Of course, we will not vote against this, we will not express this position. On the other hand, I fear that in order to save the inhabitants of coastal towns from the effects of the climate crisis, such an approach, which was presented in the report, is simply not enough, does not correspond to the challenges of our times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u387	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question is Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Maritime Coast Protection Programme is extremely important and necessary. The question is whether the assumptions made several years ago and implemented to this day are correct. I remember the beaches of my youth, and to be honest, when I visit them today, it makes me sad. For years we have been demoting the urban environment, cementing and asphalting everything possible. We're doing the same thing with the sea shores. When we enter once beautiful beaches, we still see the sunset, but very often hundreds and even thousands of tons of concrete and rusty steel separate us from it. Shouldn't we review the methods of protecting the beaches from erosion in such a way as to stop scaring unnatural constructions from last century? Thank you very much. If I could, I'd ask for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u389	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many items have not been carried out in accordance with the plan from the "Programme for the Protection of the Seashores" for 2020, such as the construction of the underwater thresholds in Gdynia-Orłowe or the renovation of the coastal reinforcement in Jastrzębie Góra. Will these measures be implemented by the end of 2021? Will the delays in the implementation of the tasks have an impact on the implementation of the tasks planned for the current year? In the schedule of planned tasks last year there was the construction of coast bands in Ustroń Morski, from which implementation was abandoned, explaining this fact, among others. the absence of a decision on environmental conditions. Are we to understand that those who set up the 2020 agenda did not realise (the bell) because of the lack of such permits? Why get the right... Thank you. ...conclusions and permits were not possible in 2020? What measures have been taken to obtain them? You can see such mediocrity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u392	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A little bit from another barrel, but I think you'll understand. The port in Darłów, the eastern and western waves that come, ladies and gentlemen, still from the 19th century, which today are calling for urgent renovations, because they are at great risk in terms of functioning and technical condition. Minister, I know there's been some paperwork, but there's no money in the budget to repair the breakwaters. As a Member of the Western Pomerania, looking at Darlowo as a city, on the infrastructure, Minister, I would very much like to ask you to answer the question, when can we look forward to a comprehensive overhaul of the Phalanies in Darłów. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u393	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 34 million PLN spent on protecting the sea shores is certainly not an impressive amount, especially if we take into account that the rental of offices for the formally decommissioned Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping by the end of 2024 will cost as much as 40 million PLN. My question, however, concerns the preparation of the Ministry and Maritime Administrations for the issue of the observed rise in Baltic waters due to climate change. It is worth noting that according to scientific research, the level of the Baltic Sea in our part of this basin may temporarily increase by several dozen centimeters, and in extreme cases it may reach up to 2 m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u396	Minister! You have made a very formal presentation of your report, and I don't think you've even taken advantage of the time you've had. It's hard to resent that approach. Nevertheless, there was a chance to talk a little bit about the challenge of protecting the sea shores, given that we are really fighting nature from our human necessity, because we need to protect this shore as a very important place from the point of view of economy, management, security of settlement systems, infrastructure, etc. But it would be good if you would be kind to say how you are trying to meet the challenges mentioned here, how you approach building the next programs, so as to take into account all the environmental requirements that need to be taken into account, because it is one of the richest ecosystems, as well as, as far as landscapes are concerned, the most valuable regions of Poland. So I'd call on you to... Thank you. ...in his closing speech, he talked a little bit about the challenges and how you deal with these problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the seashore in Hawk Mountain. The sea shore in the Jastrzębie Góra region is one of the most vulnerable to the destruction of cliff shores on the Polish coast. In the past, the cliff in Jastrzębie Góra was systematically receding at a rate of 0.5 m per year. A deep landslide occurred in 1988. Between 1995 and 1998, a shoreband was made on a section of 800 m. In 1999, the municipality of Władysławowo and the owner of the Baltic Leisure and Training Centre, which is the property of the Ministry of Finance, carried out drainage and drainage in the back of the endangered section. Then the reinforcements were made in the form of metal mesh filled with a river stone. And I wanted to ask: Are the works currently being carried out on strengthening the cliff on this beautiful part of the Polish coast in Jastrzębie Góra (Bingle)? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u399	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u400	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are debating the report today, but I would like to run a little further into the future and I would like to ask the Minister to clarify whether any studies are being carried out on the impact of climate change on our coastline. I am also talking in this respect about whether a new programme is planned, which would be financed by a much greater amount than PLN 34 million, which is being used today in the implementation of this programme. Because I have the impression that the Government of Law and Justice is conducive to climate change, so these changes will certainly also affect those regions that are on the shoreline. So, Minister, first of all, are the analyses being carried out, and secondly, is the programme being prepared to respond (the Bell) to the changes that will occur as a result of climate change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u401	Thank you. And Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you. The programme started de facto in 2004 and continues until today, ending in 2023. By December 2020, you have spent less than 63% so far. the budget planned for this programme, i.e. we spent 4% of this budget per year. We've got two years left, I'm sorry, three years and ok. 37% budget to be spent, i.e. 12%. Are you guys prepared for this, or does it make any sense to spend so much money over the last three years? We're 37% short. to the entire budget. That's the first question. And the second question is also a bit of a statement. Minister, I would like you to note our goodwill, the Civic Coalition, that we will vote in favour of this programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because unfortunately, the document itself is sloppyly made. The document is entitled: information on implementation in 2020 and the work schedule for 2021. Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. A horse with a row of who finds this schedule in the documents. Horse horse, but time is up, sir. I'm asking for this schedule for our tablets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u403	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Grzegorz Witkowski to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members, Mr Fellow Members, I really thought that the Marine Coast Protection Programme is a cross-party compromise that urges all of us to sit down and discuss in substance the challenges that are linked to climate change, but more to the economic activity, to human activity, to increased tourism. Unfortunately, I have miscalculated because I also asked us not to talk about climate change according to the narrative of environmentalists, pseudoecologists, self-governments, who are very strongly opposed to any investment related to the protection of the sea shores or to the maritime economy - unless it is the apartments in the Międzyzdroje or the hotel in Pobierów, which as a lively thing has nothing to do with the protection of the sea shores, and is just one big scandal, and here I have never heard the words of support from our side. But there are also positive voices, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Wilczyński e.g. He asks about the development of the shores, he says that we should look to the future, he asks about the protection of the shores of the sea, the shore of the Baltic Sea, about economic use and how we approach the future agenda. Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, we are thinking of using the seashore for tourism, for economic purposes, for the development of tourism, not to exploit our coastline in the Baltic Sea robbery. Hence the compromise between pouring concrete and stones, edgebands, I do not know, 100 m from the shore, so that it is environmentally and touristly acceptable, and on the other hand, to obtain environmental consent. Mr Grammar accused us that we did not have environmental consent, and Mrs Płępek says that because we did not have environmental consent, we did not make the investment. Let's decide: either we want environmental consent and do it in a reasonable way, or we do it for rhyme and we don't have environmental consent. Ladies and gentlemen, allow the regional environmental directorate, the maritime authorities, to carry out these investments efficiently. Mr Turnip. Falchron in Darłów - absolutely this is a key issue and in the future it will be written down. A Member of the Nobleman. Thank you very much for this question from the Member. Hawk Mountain - indeed a cliff. It is not only about the Hawk Mountain, it is also Trzęsacz or in the Western Pomerania very many such towns, but Hawk Obia Góra is actually very heavily exploited. I would like this to sound very strongly: PLN 4.5 million guaranteed in 2022 to strengthen the coastline and cliff in Jastrzębia Góra. Mr Suchoń. Climate change, that is, we are part of the narration of environmentalists, that it is all the fault of the mine, that there is a high level, and scaring the inhabitants of Pomerania that there will be flooded districts. Ladies and gentlemen, the water level in the Baltic Sea is decreasing by climate change, as less and less salinised water is entering the Baltic Sea through the Danish Straits. From there we have the bloom of sinic, the problem with fishing, hypoxia, the atrophy of the seabed, so I wouldn't scare the people of Gdansk, the Tricity flood. Mr Supper. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like more voices like the voice of Mr Evening, but more addressed to the Minister of Finance, so that more money is spent on such programmes, because the scale of the challenges... Indeed, Mr Wieczorek raised the subject of new technologies because in 2003 this programme was being prepared, but a great deal has changed since then. Indeed, the way in which such edgebands are made, also the way in which the edge reinforcements are made, is increasingly costly. Energy costs, labour costs, material costs have increased and we really need to re-evaluate this programme, prepare it, so I was so careful to declare to you that the new programme will be: either this will be extended or this will be a new programme of this type. As we have discussed, Mr President, at the meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee on the occasion of the budget, this is neverending story, this is Sisyphus work. Everyone's gonna face it. Ecologists would like to leave it as it is, subject it to the forces of nature. Let them tell that to hotelers or tourists by the sea, or let them come to Klif Orłowski and see what happens in Gdynia when we do not intervene mechanically in the protection of the sea shores. He's a Member of the Nobles. I'd like to remind you: 4.5 million PLN in 2022, a cliff in Jastrzębia Góra. I also thank Mr Szałabawka very much for paying attention to the scale of the challenges. We discussed these solutions many times at the meeting of the West Pomeranian Parliamentary Group. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen, the Maritime Authority in Słupsk. This is the unique impudence of the Platform Members who say that we have eliminated the Maritime Office in Słupsk, which is why the results of this programme are weak. When Mr Łącki recently said that the maritime offices were a ossified structure, he insulted... [[...that you've eliminated.]] ...workers who work hard. These offices are underinvested and I absolutely disagree. We have embarked on reform of the restructuring of the maritime administration. A year ago she lived her 100th anniversary, we are very proud of her and she will make many, many of these investments. I would like to remind you that the employees of the Maritime Office in Słupsk have come to very good hands of the Maritime Office in Gdynia, which makes huge investments in the deepening of the approach track to Gdansk, successfully implements the excavation of the Vistula mine, the construction of a waveboard for the North Port, for Naftoport. I think absolutely no gold will be wasted when it comes to the Marine Coast Protection Programme. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I accept the invitation to discuss the future programme, because this is something that I think should connect us, because Baltic beaches, tourism, economy, the Baltic Sea fortunately do not have party colors, and just as you did before, we are doing the same thing now. Let's hope you haven't done this for a long time. However, I allow the possibility that someday you will be doing business, so we will do everything we can to design the new programme with greater funding and the use of new technologies for the protection of marine areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u405	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, in corrigendum mode. But really just like we agreed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u406	Yes, Your Marshal, of course. Thank you very much. Minister! I'd like to correct the information. No one scares anyone, but a smaller water infusion into the Baltic is also the result of climate change, as is mentioned in all scientific publications. So it is absolutely necessary to include climate change in this programme, and that is all we ask to open our eyes wide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u407	Thank you very much. Another corrigendum. This time, we've agreed for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u408	Minister! Thank you for your answer. I've got two things to do. Me and my colleagues are on the committee's work plan for the future plan to protect the shores (the bell) and we invite you to cooperate. But I'm asking for that schedule we were supposed to get that we didn't get.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u409	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last 10 and 15 years, we have seen a sharp increase in investment on the Polish sea. This is mainly about permits issued for investments in the nearest dunes or cliffs by local authorities. Many of you may have noticed this during your annual return to the Baltic Sea. New hotels, guesthouses, apartment houses located directly on the dunes. All of these activities have a significant impact on erosion of shores, dunes, beaches or cliffs. Therefore, I ask you to answer: Are you planning any action to prohibit investment in the coastal area? Have you noticed the elements of the erosion of our coast through these investments? Whether studies have been carried out and checks on the shoreline have been carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u411	The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation requests the adoption of print information No 1102. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 34th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'm closing the list of people who want to make a statement. I would also like to inform you that it is possible to make a written statement. 26 parliamentarians came forward to make their statements, which translates into more than two hours, so I call for written statements. I'm closing the list, of course. The first will be given by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On June 30, we celebrated the first anniversary of the death of world-famous violinist Ida Haendel. She was born on 15 December 1928 in Chełm, a traditional family of Polish Jews. It was so-called. A wonderful child. In her third year of life, she played the violin tunes she heard. At the age of 4 she began her studies with Mieczysław Michalovich at the Warsaw conservatory. She then continued her studies in Berlin, London and Paris. In 1935 she was the youngest participant in the first violin competition. Henryk Wieniawski took seventh place in Warsaw. In 1936, she moved to Great Britain. During World War II she performed many concerts for soldiers of the Allied states. In 1946 and 1947, she debuted with concerts in the United States. In 1940, she adopted British citizenship. Until 1952, she lived in London, later, until 1989, Montreal, and then moved to Miami. In Poland, she performed in the years 1959 and 1960. In 1986 she and her father made a sentimental journey to Chelm. In 2006 she played violin during Pope Benedict XVI's visit to the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. In the same year she visited Chełm and Poznań, giving concerts with the Poznań Philharmonic Orchestra in both cities. Tadeusz Szeligowski in Poznań and Capella Cracoviensis in Chełma. The latter was her first big concert in Poland since she left in 1936. She was fluent in Polish. On 30 August 2010, the City Council of Chelm granted her the honorary citizenship of the city. She died in Miami. The people of Chelm honored the memory of Ida Haendel, organizing a concert on the first anniversary of her death. In the concert hall. Idy Haendel State School of First and Second Degree Music Ignacy Paderewski in Chełma was performed by Mrs Celina Kotz - violin and Mr Marcin Sikorski - piano. The concert was preceded by accounts from memories of the Ida Maestro Tadeusz Strugała, Krzysztof Jakowicz and Canadian violinist Lyrit Milgram. Ida Haendel always sentimentally talked about her hometown, she's the most famous chelmian. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u413	Thank you very much, Member. A further statement will be made by Mrs Teresa Pamuła, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[There isn't, Marshal.]] There is no Member. So there's another person, Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government boasts that from year to year it will increase expenditure on Polish health care. It's a declaration, and what's really going on? The heartless and incomprehensible decisions of the Minister of Health that deprive people of access to lifesaving medicines. In May, the Minister decided to withdraw 30 medicines from the refund by means of emergency access to medical technologies and tariffs. This means that the patients were thus deprived of access to therapy. Agata Polińska, Vice President of the Alivia Oncological Foundation, who fought breast cancer, warns that: the government removes drugs that are in European cancer treatment standards, deprives patients of treatment and sentences them to a shorter life. This is a terrible situation. I have been proud to support for years the activities of Amazonka clubs from my region, the activities of amazon volunteers who care about prevention, provide support and serve with experience in the fight against breast cancer. All this without the support of the Minister, who today receives the hope that in Poland you can win the fight against cancer. Minister! Come to regional centers from my voivodship, Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, including Działdów, Elku, Giżycka, Iława, Morąga, Ostródy, Olsztyna, Kętrzyn, Bartoszyc, Elbląg or Węgorzewo, and tell these heroes that you are taking away sick people's access to therapy. I also get signals from hospitals that alert me that their RDTL funding budgets end at the end of March and April each year. That in practice means a death sentence for most patients and patients. Where are the billions promised for health care? Certainly not where they are needed. I appeal for the withdrawal of the decision to withdraw 30 medicines from the refund in the emergency mode of access to medical technology. These medications are automatically included in the list of drugs excluded, which are those patients have no access to, either in this mode or in any other way. No drugs, no underfunded cancer programs, that's condemning people to death. You are responsible for each of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u415	Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u416	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister Niedzielski, absent from work! Coronavirus pandemic hasn't expired yet. As you say, we expect another wave of disease in the coming months. At the same time, the demand for other medical services miraculously did not disappear. Due to the pandemic and the failure of the health system, which you are unable to cope with, many planned medical procedures, often saving lives, have been postponed to a more definite date when the pandemic passes. Presidential elections could be held absolutely, ensuring health protection for citizens - not anymore. These are your priorities: politics and power. Similarly, the ridiculous situation takes place at Regional Specialist Hospital No. 3 in Rybnik. By decision of the party officer, Marshal of Silesian Voivodeship Mr.Jakub Chełstowski, the director of the Fisherman's Hospital is Mrs. Ewa Fica. There's a lot to be said about Mrs. Fica's responsibilities, but unfortunately, nothing good. Ewa Fica is known for her accusations of mobbing and for her miraculous renovation of the hospital unit in Mysłowice. As it turned out later, such a unit never existed. Mrs. Fica explained the situation as follows: Nobody had bad intentions. Mrs Fica also has a conflict with the staff at the railway hospital in Katowice and St. Barbara in Sosnowiec. Her political independence is excellently contradicted by the fact that she was unsuccessfully applying for the presidency of Thought from a letter, and indeed, Law and Justice. [[So what?]] Mr. Marshal Chełstowski, like the director of the Nicodemus Dyzmy Kariera, thought that you should be entrusted with the extremely responsible role of the director of the Regional Hospital in Rybnik. Well, that's your staff. Mrs. Fica started her work by reducing nursing and non-medical staff. It just got worse. The next step is to move forward. the director was not paying COVID allowances to hospital staff, the termination of the conditions of pay to all doctors employed for employment contracts and to all residents. It should also be borne in mind that the director didn't even bother to see how many of these doctors cover a period of pre-retirement protection. Is cutting off doctors and salary staff a form of gratification for fighting a pandemic? You guys were so eager to clap to the medics a few months ago. You're kicking them out of work today. COVID team personnel working in difficult conditions, secured with personal protective equipment such as suits, under pressure, during the winter season for 2 weeks had at their disposal a bathroom only with ice water. Despite many appeals to the directorate, it was only the publicity of the problem in the media that forced the director to react and provide warm water to the doctors. Thanks to the success of the party officer's management as of 1 July this year. in Voivodship Hospital No 3 in Rybnik the following branches were stopped: pediatrics, children's otolaryngology, adult otolaryngology and internal branch. The suspension of further troops is only a matter of time. On the same day, Director Fica was honoured by the authorities of the Silesian Voivodeship with a badge of honor for her service to the Silesian Voivodeship. That's what you bring to the top of cynicism and political hypocrisy. Doctors who have left the Fisherman hospital will no longer return to work in this facility because everyone has found employment in medical entities, often private, to the detriment of the state so-called. the health system. It's crazy when it's estimated that almost 60,000 are already missing. Doctors. Is this a new recipe for the Law and Justice Government to improve the health situation? Locking down troops, restricting patients' access to doctors, reducing the amount of reimbursed medical services? Once in this room we heard about the educated doctors in Poland: Let them go. Abroad, of course. Today, PiS communicates to patients and patients: Let them die. You have the blood of sick people on your hands who believed that the Polish health system could work smoothly. 600,000. inhabitants of the subregion of the western Silesian voivodeship, who use the services of the fish establishment, are waiting to take decisive steps. As a member of the opposition from Rybnik, I will follow every step of your way closely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We'll give you to the ethics committee for the words to die.]] You're welcome. [[No one's ever said that. You're lying.]] It's true, it's classified as an ethics committee. Those are the facts. Thank you very much, sir. Madame, these are the facts. The victims of an inefficient health system speak for themselves. Mr President, please leave the speaker. You've already finished your statement. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u417	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The report on the nominations received by PiS activists and sympathizers in State Treasury companies reveals a frightening picture: the image of nepotism, guys and questionable candidates for positions in state-owned companies on an unprecedented scale. [[Right.]] These nominations show what President Andrzej Duda meant by his homeland. The absence of competitions for some of the positions that PiS deliberately eliminated at the beginning of its reign, in the previous term, against which we protested, is proof that this leap was clearly planned for our joint, or state-owned companies. Maybe those competitions weren't perfect... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...but they had to be improved, not eliminated, making it easier for some to jump on our common state assets. Rather than betting on expertise and knowledge, the current government puts on faithfulness and party submission, which facilitates the way to well-paid positions. I ask myself: Is Mr. Meler from Sopot still working as the CEO of Energa Lighting? Where does Mr Andrzej Jaworski's former PiS Member work now? He was the president of Gdańsk Shipyard. He sold it to the Ukrainians, and then the government of PiS had to buy it back too much, which proves the high level of the professionality of Mr Jaworski. I would remind you that this is an ethnologist, otherwise sympathetic, but an ethnologist, as well as a tourism specialist, and - as it turned out - also from the construction of machinery, energy, fuel industry, because through all these industries, taking positions from the nomination of the PiS, he changed. Does Aleksandra Jankowska - candidate for president of Sopot from PiS, who became president of the Pomeranian Special Economic Zone, still work there? Mr Dariusz Sieńczewski - candidate for councilman for the PiS, appointed member of the board of directors of Energa Wydwarzanie. Przemysław Marchlewicz - the golden child of PiS, as it was said, former Councilman of Sopot on behalf of PiS, member of the Supervisory Board of the Maritime Board of Port Gdańsk, who felt harassed by the prosecutor's office and CBA, was removed from PiS. What's wrong with him? You can't see the end of Mr. Marchlewicz's trial or the end of Mr. Marchlewicz's case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Where are your activists? In local companies?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u419	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! President Andrzej Duda submitted a bill to rebuild the palace of Saski in Warsaw, demolished by the Germans during the Nazi occupation. My constituents claim that this is not the most important investment for Poland and Poles, and some say it is a classic example of blowing the whole pair into a whistle. More than PLN 2 billion can be better managed in smaller cities and municipalities than in the construction of further palaces in the capital, in which it dripping from millions and billions of investments. And people judge the rulers. Part of the public says that Andrzej Duda envied Edward Gierko, and part of it says that the whole building is written with a stick on the water, because the promoter and the president's boss - President Kaczyński wants Germany to pay for the construction of the palace. Well, I keep from this place, like most Poles, a large part of my fingers crossed for the courage and slaughter of politicians of Law and Justice in enforcing war damages from Germans and Russians, and lately - also from Swedes, because this is what Mrs Pawłowicz proposed. However, as you know, for the time being, Prime Minister Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Gliński and Minister Rau have no success on these levels. I do not mention the success of your ambassador in Berlin for pity's sake. However, in order not to be so that everything is on it, I will inform the High House that some of my constituents were pleased when President Kaczyński promised to rebuild Polish monuments, castles and palaces as part of the New Deal. Finally, the Law and Justice promises, and the President promises it twice in four years. It is about the Bydgoszcz castle, which in the 14th century was built by King Kazimierz the Great and which for many centuries was the guardian of Polish statehood at the northern borders of the Kingdom of Poland. It was the seat of the Bydgoszcz princes and elders, his crew defended Poland against the Teutonic Knights and the Swedish, and it was finally destroyed in the 19th century by the Germans, i.e. by the Prussian conquerors. Therefore, according to many people, the Bydgoszcz castle is no less worthy of rebuilding for state money than the palace of Saski in Warsaw. Mr. President! Mr. President! Prime Minister! The Bydgoszcz are waiting for your suggestions. Bydgoszczians remember that already in 2017 Jarosław Kaczyński announced a plan for the reconstruction of Kazimierz castles at the Convention of Law and Justice. President Kaczyński said, referring to the slogan of the convention, that Poland is one, that the Polish community can be built, among others. by beauty, hence the restoration fund of monuments, hence the plan to rebuild the castles of Kazimierz Wielki - those built by Kazimierz Wielki. Poland must be beautiful, because it is also something that consolidates our community. Mr President, we remember this, only none of these actions announced by you in 2017 have been implemented in our homeland. Mr. President! I appeal from this place: maybe Bydgoszcz? Thank you very much. [[Yeah, I'm sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u421	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. I invite you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u422	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will speak on two topics today, but very briefly, Your Marshal, respecting your time, which is already... First topic: Prosumer energy. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember 2016 and the total freeze of wind energy. Today we are talking about cooling prosumer energy. People put on photovoltaics and install heat pumps because they are mostly afraid of very expensive electricity. In this way they counteract it and at the same time take care of the air. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not do what we did with the wind energy. The State must be predictable and consistent in its operation. I think the Poles deserve it. I therefore urge from this point of view, however, that we leave the current rules on prosumer energy. Second topic, ladies and gentlemen. In the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship last year drought was found in some powiats. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Agriculture did not find money to compensate farmers. This year, due to the several-day, very high temperatures in those counties where this was found last year, unfortunately the situation has repeated. I appeal from this place to the Minister: I ask the committee, please estimate, I ask that these farmers pay their funds, because this is another year in some places in the West Pomerania region, where farmers can no longer make ends meet. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u423	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u424	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! With some timidity, we want to believe that pandemic time is passing away, that all this was due to the corset of sanitary rigor and sharpening, passing away and, God forbid, will not return. I wish I could. Nevertheless, I recommend some caution and reasonableness in functioning and taking care of myself and others. Now I would like to reflect on what has happened to us, what has happened to us. We've been through this together. Therefore, we have the same knowledge and personal and social assessment. So without repeating myself with the description of the pandemic world and the time of the plague, I will focus on the good that was done then. At the very beginning I will address my words of respect, appreciation and great gratitude to the environment of health care, all of you who have exposed yourselves daily to the unknown and with determination and heroism you have taken care of the health and saving of the biological tissue of the nation. Perhaps bombastic is a phrase, and yet I absolutely don't think it is because it is adequate for the task that fell on your shoulders: doctors, nurses, laboratories, diagnostics, paramedics, pharmacists, researchers, epidemiologists, health services and your families. I pay special attention to this nearest circle when she, her own family, had to bear the context of your profession. In a number of social, professional groups, to which we owe gratitude and recognition, there are many obvious and less obvious. The first ones are, for example. the environment of teachers, educators, psychologists, educators, those to whom we entrust our children and young people. I believe that in a phenomenal sequence of return to the ethos of the teacher's profession, teachers as a social and professional group - as best as possible in this situation - stood at the level of the task. I'd like to thank you for that. For caring for the children entrusted to you, and yet when you returned to your homes, your own children were waiting for you there. I know how much you had to pay for your own expenses. I know how difficult it was to function in the constant fear that you could bring the plague from school to your own home. I have reason to say clearly: the Polish teacher passed the exam, set an example of the contemporary pedagogical, ethostic attitude of service towards the pupil. Thank you for that. Less obvious groups, whose attitude during the pandemic allowed us, society, to function in some way, are, for example, a whole multitude of thousands of trade workers, ladies on the register, shop workers of all kinds, transport workers, bus drivers, motorcar drivers, courier and freight forwarding companies, thanks to which we could move, receive ordered products. I think we should smile at each other, smile at each other, addressing the warm word thank you - the Pole towards the Pole - for this difficult time and way of survival. Let us like the good that was done then. Let us forgive our weaknesses and keep our senses for the future, especially in this uncertain time, for the fight against the plague is still ongoing. Let's be reasonable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Coalition Poland, sorry, Civic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, the Congress of Law and Justice was held, which proved to be a great self-nominator, admitting that the parties and the state led by the PiS ate nepotism. The TKM principle was loud between 2005 and 2007. It has taken on as a tsunami since 2016. President Kaczyński admits that if it gets to people, the PiS could lose power. Well, it gets there, it gets there more and more. Just do a regular press review to grab your head. Jacek Sasin is in trouble. It is to verify employees, members of supervisory boards, boards in companies of the Treasury employed according to the party key. However, a special resolution against nepotism is toothless. Does the situation justify the employment of PiS politicians' families? Should the lack of competence be accepted for this reason? Jacek Kurski said in 2007 that no activist or supporter of the PiS should suffer hunger and deprivation. What do you mean, not to suffer hunger and poverty? $20,000. PLN per month, 30, 40, or maybe 200,000. Evil? In the winter of 2016, competitive recruitment for the most important posts was abolished while reducing the competence requirements for candidates and adopting the first so-called. Human Resources Act. More than one third of the officials serving as directors-general of departments, heads of departments have been mentioned. Of course, loyalty to the party was the criterion of acceptance. The carousel of positions in the companies of the Treasury has reached unimaginable sizes: entrances, departures of checks, acceptance of money which multiply. In the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, since 2015, there have been six presidents or responsibilities. At the stud in Janów Podlaski there were five presidents. 11 July 2020 press reported that the club of millionaires associated with PiS - PLN 162.4 million per 84 persons in companies with the participation of the State is growing. As the OKO wrote. press, a friend of the Ziobrów family and a colleague of Morawiecki got over PLN 10 million, a friend of Kaczyński - over PLN 5.4 million, wife of advisor Duda - PLN 5 million, two friends of Szydłów at PLN 427 thousand. zł. OK. press analysed the earnings of the members of the government of 14 listed companies, PiS activists. The analysis shows that the earnings since the beginning of the government of PiS developed just like this - two people made over PLN 10 million, 6 people from PLN 5 to PLN 10 million, 23 people earned from PLN 2 to PLN 5 million, 12 people - from PLN 1 to PLN 2 million, 41 people to PLN 1 million. That is not all, because supervisory boards are being multiplied. These people are very often employed on supervisory boards. This is information from stock companies. And what happens in companies that aren't stock companies? We are dealing there very often with something that is referred to as trough+. On Money.pl we have information about people who will have to verify Minister Sasin. Among them is Jadwiga Emilewicz's husband, Zbigniew Ziobra's wife, Krzysztof Sobolewski's wife, Grzegorz Matusiak's son, his brother, the aunt's brother, PiS president, Ryszard Czarnecki's son, Ryszard Czarnecki's wife, and a lot of people. In Wielkopolska there was a landing of PiS activists on Enea. There are former vice-presidents from the PIS from Chełm, from Szczecin, one of the angels of the president of Glapiński, head of the PiS club in the Greater Poland Sejm, councilmen or former councilmen of PiS, treasurer of the Vołominsk district, chairman of the PiS field committee from Podgoleniowskie Maszewa, employees of the office of President Duda, etc. The question is whether these promotions are behind the competence. Maybe it's a difficult situation for members of the PiS? Maybe it's about huge payouts. Will Jacek Sasin verify where this huge PiS nominates came from? I doubt it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u427	Thank you. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u428	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Nepotism and family program on their own are implemented by PiS activists also in Silesia, in the Rybnik district ranging from Jastrzębie to Rybnik and Mikołów. Here are some concrete examples. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa Training and Mining - Łukasz Dwornik, alderman of Rybnik, former presidential candidate for PiS is currently the president of this company. It's a very fast promotion and high wages, but are the positions followed by competence? Grzegorz Janik, former Member of the PiS, is the Director of surface maintenance in this company. According to Gazeta Wyborcza from June this year, the former Member is also a shareholder of the newly created company, which won Intercity's tender for PLN 70 million in May. Mag-Train has share capital of only 20,000. zł. Grzegorz Janik has 20 shares worth 2,000. zł. On the horizon, the company has a tender to win for repair of passenger cars worth less than PLN 400 million. The industrial portal of the railway market points out that Mag-Train has not so far competed in large tenders of the national carrier. Is that a coincidence? The Silesian Railways are also connected with the daughter of the MEP Isabella Kloc, who is willing to work in state companies. Julia Kloc-Korracka outside the diet of the councilwoman of the Silesian Sejm - 30,000. PLN - as a promotion worker in the Mikołaj branch of the National Agricultural Support Centre, she earned 40,000 last year. zł. It has been better since Kloc-Kondracka's property claims show that in 2017 she earned nearly 58 thousand in the Agricultural Market Agency. PLN and in 2018 more than 55 thousand zł. On the other hand, as a marketing coordinator in the Silesian Railways, she earned 13 thousand. zł. Besides, the messenger's husband, Janusz Kloc, was also moonlighting. In spring 2016, he was employed by the Agricultural Property Agency. It is currently a national farm advisory centre. Where? In the president's office. What's he doing? That's a good impression. How much is he gonna make? The agency didn't want to answer. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak also has a talent for hiring his son. His son Nicodemus Matusiak worked for JSW Security from January to autumn 2018. It is a subsidiary of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, which deals with the protection and cleaning of JSW plants. Matusiak was a representative of the Management Board for Development and Organization. Our Nicodemus is currently the vice president of the district heating company in Tychy. It was recommended by Tauron, a company controlled by the State Treasury, in which it has 21% shares and previously the President of Innova Group of KGHM. Interestingly, his term of office now lasts six years. So long the taxpayers will pay him a salary. As the media report, convicted in the criminal trial Andrzej Matusiak, the brother of the Member, Councilman of PiS of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, will continue to run the city's voivodship centre of traffic. There's no reason to dismiss him, as his superior says. Let the fact that all trade unionists are alarmed about the scale of the problem in the case of nepotism in the mining industry, with the solidarity at the head, in an open letter to the President of Kaczyński from January this year bear witness to the fact that there is a problem. When he was still a MEP, Mr Piecha's family connections were widely described in 2017 as Newsweek. I quote: "Son of Member, wife, mother, mother-in-law." My brother's assistant and future daughter-in-law. My son's second fiancée, the principal's husband, brother and sister-in-law. This isn't a list of wedding guests. These are the employees of the MEP Bolesław Piecha and their family ties. 'Newsweek' reveals the nepotism of a deputy of the PIS. And other smaller examples. Katarzyna Dutkiewicz, former Member of PiS and Assistant to Mr Piecha, is currently the president of the foundation dependent on PGE Mining and Conventional Energy SA Branch of Rybnik Power Plant. Andrzej Sączek, city councilman of Rybnik on behalf of PiS, is the director of HR Support Department of PGG SA. Monthly earnings, bagatela, only 193 grand. zł. Stanisław Jaszczuk, a regional councilman from PiS, is the head of the Rybnik county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! The scale of corruption and nepotism under the rule of the PiS has reached unprecedented proportions. We can't accept this and accept it. There is nothing worse than believing that this must be the case and that it is a natural state of affairs. As Stefan Kisielewski said, observing the passiveness of Poles' adaptation to the Polish People's Republic: The fact that we are in d... is clear. The problem is, we're starting to get organized in it. Let's not settle in it. Let us fight nepotism, abuse and corruption. Let's fight for a healthy democratic state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u429	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The scale of corruption, nepotism and guysity has taken up in Poland so far unknown in history. It's the result of law and justice policy. You have led to the fact that at the Congress you adopted a very important resolution: you must not steal unless you have the powers and other conditions mentioned in the article. 2. What's more, you even wrote in the Public Information Bulletin about promotion issues. I have here an announcement of recruitment for the president of one of the companies under KGHM Polska Miedź. The candidate must meet a total of many criteria, including the opinion of KGHM Polska Miedź SA. Of course, after the resolution he will have to have the opinions of the President of Kaczynski or Minister Sasin. As a result of this policy, we have very many agreements. One related to Daniel Obajtek, who was spoken about very much. It's worth recalling. Józef Węgierecki, Member of the Management Board of PKN Orlen SA, married to the former councilwoman of the municipality of Pcim, when Daniel Obajtek was the president. Michał Horn, a member of the Board of PKN Orlen, also from Myślenice, took care of his brother Marcin Rog from Pcim, who is the director of Orlen South. Zofia Paryla, the accountant at the company Elektroplast, at the company that was robbed, as we know from the indictment. Daniel Obajtek was sitting on the bench of the defendants at the time. Today she is the President of the Management Board of the Lotos SA Group, and before that she was also an accountant in the municipality of Pcim, when Daniel Obajtek was the president. He also took care of the daughter of his partner, with whom he has the company ERG Bieruń - Folie, about Elizabeth Bugaj, who is today the vice president of Energa Rot. In addition, he took care of Grzegorz Obajtka, his cousin, the husband of Bernadette Obajtek, who watches over his business in TT Plast, and Grzegorz Obajtek is today the director of Bioeco Tauron Group. z o.o. But that's not all, because we know that this list is much longer. Relationships with MPs. Jadwiga Emilevich's husband, Marcin, works in Orlena. Patricia Kotecka, wife of Zbigniew Ziobra, makes a career in the PZU group, in Link4. Sylwia Sobolewska - that's the whole story. She was an inspector at the Trade Inspection, she's a director in Orlena. She was also on three supervisory boards. She said she quit. We heard about Nicodemus Matysiak a moment ago. Prime Minister Morawiecki also has very important links. Among other things, Monika Morawiecka, the prime minister's cousin, became president of PGE Baltica. Jarosław Broda, the husband of Anna Morawiecka, the prime minister's sister, became deputy editor-in-chief of Polish Radio Wrocław. software. The aunt of the President of PiS Jarosław Kaczyński, Jan Maria Tomaszewski, works in the Polish Television SA and is an advisor to the President of Kurski. Richard Czarnecki can't be left out on this list. It is known that he traveled around the world and settled a kilometer away, even though he was probably on a plane. But he also made sure that one of his sons, Bartosz Czarnecki, was an advisor in the Polish Armed Group, and that his wife was on the supervisory board of one of the PZU group's daughters' companies. But as the Eye determined. Press, she is also a member of the supervisory board of Elmen's PGE. Tadeusz Cymanski's daughter works at Energa Rota Gdańsk. Beata Szydło's closest colleague, as Prime Minister, was appointed President of Tauron Extraction. He almost brought the company down. As a reward he became vice president of the company Nowe Jaworzno. Ryszard Madziar, head of the political office of Jacek Sasina, is on the Supervisory Board of the Totalizator Sportowy, but also took care of his wife Jolanta Madziar, the councillor of the district of Wołomiński, who (Dzwonek) is the president of the company of PGZ's daughter. You can exchange much longer... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u431	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir, time is up. Mr Mirosław Suchoń... Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u432	High Seym! At his congress in a resolution, already famous for its curiasality, he pointed only to the companies of the Treasury, to nepotism, to the embezzlement by his officers, by the power of his politicians of the companies of the State Treasury. But it's just the tip of the iceberg. Where are we talking about funds, agencies, institutes, foundations, companies, state holdings, services, inspections, guards, government and special administration? After all, that's why the admission rules were changed so there wouldn't be any competitions. Already 40% senior civil servants are employed outside the civil service corps, i.e. by a guarantee. Even the State Forests, ladies and gentlemen - and I will start with this example - have been given to Jasyr or can be said - in the arend of Solidarna Poland. It's hard to find a director or a foreman who's not dependent on this formation right now. This is also taking on certain forms already known to us from studs, where fishing farms are subjected to party officers without any experience. The fishing farm in Niemodlin - Councilman Przemysław Kubów becomes director. Then it turns out he doesn't know it, they hire someone who's supposed to know it, and he becomes vice principal. The fishing farm in Krogulna is headed by Renata Olszewska - a similar story, a total lack of competence. So, if the PiS says, let's look at the councilmen, maybe start with Councilman Przemysław Kubowa. But let's move on to the next level. PKP Cargo. In this company, Mr. Antonia Duda is a member of the Supervisory Board. Duda is a famous, popular name... [[The president's father is Duda, too.]] ... e.g. Because the President of the Republic has that name. But Mr Antonia Duda, who was appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of PKP Cargo in 2020, is an uncle. He was an MP. He's now a member of the board of directors. There's a saying: he traded his uncle's ax for a stick. Oh, ladies and gentlemen, no. He has ceased to be a Member, but here it is only 8016 PLN, and on the supervisory board of PKP Cargo probably 12 700 PLN every month and meetings every 2 months. Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations are in order. Besides, Mr. Antonia Duda, in his own way, could say that he didn't really know about it, which didn't bother to call him. Ladies and gentlemen! You could mention the names of such famous politicians as Janusz Kowalski, who trained in the management of companies in Opole, and then, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Janusz Kowalski So much so that he was able to pass within 3 or 4 years as a member of the supervisory boards or boards of four state-owned companies. Out of two, because stock companies publish reports, as we know, in one year he was able to earn 2,300 thousand. zł. The same goes for Mr. Bortniczuk - he also scored a beautiful chapter in the State Treasury companies in the Azota Group, where he had his golden period for 2 years. Ladies and gentlemen, a year on the Board of the Treasury Company is a million, maybe with a hook, because then the bonuses come - 1 year on the Supervisory Board is about 100,000, 150,000. Come on, don't die, ladies and gentlemen. There are cases that even the chief may have become the director of the power plant - we are talking about Tomasz Gabor, who is a member of the PiS and is a councillor of the voivodship, ladies and gentlemen - he has not become a director, but he has become a chief administrative specialist. At this power plant, this major specialist makes 250,000. PLN per year. Then you shouldn't be surprised that the electricity has to cost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u433	Mrs Magdalena Filisk, Civic Coalition. [[Filix, your marshal.]] Filix, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday you rejected our coalition, our motion and did not agree to a parliamentary debate on nepotism in your party, your flagship channel+ program. You said no out of fear, but you did not agree in the hope that the truth of the enormous scale of abuse and nepotism in your ranks would simply not break into public opinion. But this is very naive and very short-sighted thinking. It's not that your behavior in the Seym, such behavior, e.g. The fact that Mr PiS is the only one who is here sleeping is contempt for the opposition, whether it is a lack of respect for the principles of parliamentarianism. Yes, the Member is very bored. [[Disgusted.]] In fact, however, and for you, Mr President, this is how you show... [[Disgusted by attitude.]] Now I'm talking. ...scorn for their own constituents. For those voters you really have to think the worst of, if you think... Not only do you think it can be hidden from them in this way, but you also think you don't have to explain to them at all that you don't have the responsibilities to explain and apologize at all. I ask you and your fellow Members from PiS: Who is honest enough to write a resolution of their own, in which he writes about himself that he will be honest? And finally such a treat: unless there is an extraordinary situation in life, then he will not be honest. Such a thing has not yet been in the history of free Poland. I know exactly what an extraordinary life situation is in your understanding. E.g. A woman becomes the wife of Mr Sobolewski and then she is: pyk, she gets a few companies. [[Applause]] A few tens of thousands of income a month... [[50,000.]] ...allows this to earn, Mr. 0,5 million a year. [[600,000.]] And that's the contempt for your constituents. Statistical Pole, thus the statistical voter of PiS, must work 20 years for income of PLN 0.5 million. Yes, 20 years of proverbial Kowalski, who voted for the PiS, will work for the amount that someone earns in a year because he's someone's wife. And that's exactly what your constituents aren't supposed to know. I'm sure they won't find out from TVP. If I wanted to give examples of nepotism only from my voivodship, I would really run out of time. This is the scale of your abuses, that the Members who enter here read quickly only the names of corrupt people and the names of those involved in this process and their time is running out. That's the merry-go-round, and that's the scale of the abuse. I'll tell you about it. about your scheming councilwoman, very well-known and cherished by you, Mrs. Jacin-Witt. Speaking of contempt for voters - I apologize to the High House - I will remind you of what it is known for. Your constituents, translating on Facebook from what happened to that ghost shuttle and Szczecin Shipyard, wrote what I'm sorry for, but it wasn't my words: "The cat shit this keel." And indeed she had to have an extraordinary life situation, because her husband works at Polsteam Shipping Szczecińska. Besides, the councilwoman herself from the keel and the cat, the wife, who was first a member and then the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Gryfia Shiprepair Yard - I recall - then changed this stool to the seat of the Supervisory Board member of Szczecin Shipyard. I'm sure her and her husband's powers are indisputable. It's just a difficult life situation. Another Eagle from Szczecin, former Member of Zaremba. As a reward after the voters did not give him support and did not get into the Sejm, he also immediately had extraordinary life circumstances and landed himself in the chair of the secretary of Polish Shipping. I must say, my fellow Members, that half of Szczecin wondered what the position was because he had never been before, there was no such thing as a secretary. Let me add that Mr Zaremba, by education, is a politician and, professionally, he was selling cars in Renault's living room. He was secretary, he became president. I'd just like to ask how many car salesmen you know who are going to be presidents of the Gryphy Shiprepair Yard. How many car salesmen in Poland sit in the positions of yard presidents? No, sir. That president, your friend, the eagle... It's not funny. Are you laughing? You mock your constituents, Poland and decency. The same president recorded in history that he never came to the yard where he was employed. That's what the yard workers tell us. He didn't even come when he fired 200 people who didn't have five minutes of time to talk to them to look them in the eye. That's why this attempt to cover up and nepotism and Chief Kaczyński knows it. That's why he told you to stop stealing. Only you guys aren't gonna stop stealing. I know, and I'm afraid for the next two years, it's gonna be an apogee. Once you're fired, it's just to pay him a check-in (the bell) and to get another wife, sister-in-law, brother, sweat in his place. Thank you. I'm almost done, Miss... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u435	Thank you, Madam President, the time has passed. Speaking of contempt for voters, you have shown extremely great contempt for women, and that surprises me. [[I don't need your opinion. You're the last person...]] Disdain for the women in the speaker by the Member of the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: You have no mandate...]] Embarrassing. [[I'm not from the Platform. You don't even know my name.]] Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. [[Please read about the envoys...]] Don't scream, it's not a bazaar, really, it's a seymnasium. [[Voice from the hall: And you are a marshal.]] [[And you're a marshal, and you're acting like a bribe.]] Yeah, yeah, that's what you're showing it, that's exactly what it is. Mr President, just a moment, please start when you calm down so your friend doesn't bother you. Already? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We all remember these words: work, humility, moderation - you declared Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and in fact since the first days of the PiS government thousands of political nominates of PiS, activists, politicians, their relatives, friends went to supervisory boards and boards of companies, to various public institutions, preying like crows on the property of the State Treasury. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like those people went in there and are still here today. A merry-go-round was created. When the first persons on these boards made their first millions or hundreds of thousands, they were replaced by others. Today, after 6 years of this, we have to say, the practice, we hear about the fact that the government camp noticed nepotism, noticed this feeding on the property of the Treasury and adopted a resolution to stop it. Ladies and gentlemen! It's hypocritical. Nothing's gonna stop here. There was a thought in that feeding, and it was a method. Already at the beginning of his reign, PiS amended the Civil Service Act in such a way that around 1600 posts were excluded from the competitions, consciously excluded from the competitions in order to allow this feeding to be introduced into various positions, in the civil service, in various public institutions, these nominates. Since the first days Jarosław Kaczyński and this government camp have used this method. Let us not be deceived by any resolutions. This resolution doesn't interrupt anything. This resolution merely admits that for six years we have dealt with such an activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly describe the Ministry of National Defence and the arms industry, because there was a lot of space to feed. Bartłomiej Misiewicz is an example of this pathology that we are talking about today. He first became the symbol of this operation. A man without any preparation, even without a higher education, played the role of some first Deputy Minister in the Ministry of National Defence, went to the supervisory board of the largest arms group, namely the Polish Armed Group, and later went to There to the board, he was going to make 50,000. zł. It was too much for the public. Then PiS and President Kaczyński noticed the problem for the first time. They set up a special committee which stated that Bartłomiej Misiewicz had no qualifications to perform functions in public administration, in companies of the State Treasury or in any other public sphere. He didn't have any qualifications, but just from giving PiS, from giving Jarosław Kaczyński and Antoni Macierewicz, for 2 years he held the highest positions in the Ministry and in the Treasury companies and was one of the most important activists and politicians of PiS. In the Polish Armed Group we now have the seventh president, ladies and gentlemen. There are more than 30 companies in the Polish Armed Group. A similar carousel was created in each of these companies, i.e. specialists were called off, people were hired, who had nothing to do with the armory before, e.g. In the company Nitro-Chem, which produces explosives, TNT, a specialist in aquarium construction was hired, an aquariumist who had nothing to do with the arms industry before, with explosives. As the media have established, earnings on the Management Board of the Polish Armed Group are at the level of 80,000. PLN per month. We have the seventh president and boards have exchanged many times. Ladies and gentlemen, the summary is that there is no new product in the arms industry for six years, because these are people who are unable to create anything new, while huge money has been brought out. From the government memo, which was posted on the revealed e-mails of Minister Dworczyk, we learn that employment in the Polish Armed Group increased by several dozen percent, although it did not have any business justification. But there was a reason to hire this army of Misiewiczs. The same is true in energy, ladies and gentlemen. No wonder you're paying bigger bills for electricity because you're paying to keep this army of people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The only reason they're there is to make money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u437	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today's parliamentary statements have been dominated by information on how Law and Justice politicians use public institutions to enrich themselves. Today's parliamentary statements, moreover, rightly show the absurdity of the so-called. a resolution on nepotism that was adopted at the Convention on Law and Justice. It is probably surprising that this resolution appeared after more than five years, and basically after nearly six years of practicing this shameful activity. I'd like to go back to history because the viewers of this Congress of Law and Justice might feel like this started last weekend, and history is much longer. Jacek Kurski, yes, this Jacek Kurski, who is now the leader of the so-called. public television, public television, which for the public money, for the money of all of us, for the money of Polish taxpayers is practicing government propaganda, sneaking on opposition, sneaking on all who disagree with this government, but have a different opinion, in 2007, as you may not all know, was at the forefront of Law and Justice in Pomerania. During the PiS Congress in 2007 he said this: You will see, the PiS in Pomerania will be great, will be consistent in recovering for the people of the PiS office after office, companies after business, agenda after agenda, those places whose cast depends on the state. The PiS must be in charge there. No activist or supporter of our party who bled out in our election campaigns can suffer from hunger and deprivation. These people need to take over in a satisfactory way in the part of the sector under government. This is the whole PiS philosophy defined by Jack Kurski as early as 2007, so it could be said: without surprise. But more. The moment after the Law and Justice gained power, i.e. in 2015, Pomeranian activists ran through an e-mail by Janusz Śniadek's head of the parliamentary office with such content: On behalf of Janusz Śniadek, I ask you to send proposals for the posts of directors of the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I would like to inform you that ARiMR is not a private company of Law and Justice, but an institution that should include specific procedures. From the very beginning, public institutions have been treated as private law and justice companies. We're going to show this pathology here today and every day, because it's pathology, it's not normal, it's pathology, and that's what you have to call it. I have a list in front of me - unfortunately I will not be able to read it - 100 people of good change of PiS in Pomerania, 100 people who, when PiS took power practically from the vending machine, found employment in companies of the State Treasury, and this employment had nothing to do with their competences. I will tell you more in the context of the curiosity: in the term of office of 2014.2018, among the 12 city councillors of Gdańsk, 10 sat in the companies of the State Treasury. 10 out of 12 others, 2 were simply not interested in this because of their work. Is that normal? No, that's not normal. And one more example, one consequence of this policy. Well, the education curator in Pomerania is Minister Zieliński's sister. She wasn't nominated there because of her competence. And I want to tell you what the consequences of this nomination are: violation of labour rights, intimidation and humiliation. This is the consequence of breaking all procedures and all rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't agree to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u439	Mr Kazimierz Chom, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u440	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On 26 June 1959 events related to the defence of the cross in Kraśnik Fabryczne took place. This year's annual celebrations took place on Sunday 27 June. The Holy Mass began at St. Józef in Kraśnik, in the factory district, in the church, which was created thanks to efforts and determination, among others. those who took part in events on June 26, 1959. The construction of the church began in 1979, i.e. 20 years after the act of unprecedented spontaneous action of defending the cross. The celebrations ended with the laying of flowers under the monument commemorating those events. These events provoked the local communist authorities, which on the morning of June 26 with the hands of an architect of the district protected by an officer of the Civic Militia, sealed and sealed the cross with a chapel attached to it. The sealant announced that the cross was beheaded at night. The news of this incident began to spread among people. In the late afternoon, dozens of residents gathered at the cross to perform the June service. After a prayer with fenced strings and a sealed cross, some women went to the police station about the items taken by the clerk from the chapel adjacent to the cross. After a brief conversation, they left the station, remaining before him and expressing their outrage at the inaction of the militia. More and more protesters began to join women against the splintering of the cross. People began singing religious songs and praying. She joined the group about an hour later. 23 part of the staff leaving work on the second shift at the Kraśnicka Metal Factory, who supported the protest. The tension grew more and more until there was an attack on protesters at the police station. Finally, there was an attack by the Motorized Departure of the Civic Militia, which belonged to the Regional Police Command in Lublin, against the gathered people, who were around 1300. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. At 1 a.m. there was a dispersal of the collected by using sticks. A lot of people have been badly beaten, including a lot of women. In addition, the militia used additional beatings held by the ZOMO officers. 61 people were detained as a result of the repression of the protest of the population in Kraśnik Fabryczny. The pacification carried out on the residents protesting under the MO station was completed during the night hours of the removal of the chapel at the cross. The next day, after the events of Krasnik, the communist authorities launched an ad hoc investigation. 31 people were temporarily arrested during the arrest. 22 people were brought before the court. In four cases before the district court in Kraśnik, 18 people were sentenced to imprisonment without suspension. The highest sentences reached three years, the lowest few months. The others have been suspended. All temporary arrests have been released from work. 36 people were fined by the college. Many people had to leave Kraśnik because they could not get any work. Many people have lost their health. Repressions have affected entire families. I consider it my duty to honor all the knights who stood up for the cross, who, despite the programmed atheistic hatred of the communist authorities, showed courage and defended the Christian faith for future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u441	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is 23 years in my region in Bielsko-Biała Voivodeship Road Movement Centre, and next to the Voivodeship Hospital operating in this city is one of the last remains of the Bielsko voivodeship. Reasoned concern among the inhabitants aroused information that the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship plans to liquidate this center. A prosperous unit wants to transform into a district branch and, thanks to such centralization, give an unprofitable corporation, which is the Katowice Voivodship road centre, an additional injection of money. The same fate is to meet the center in Częstochowa. I would like to stress with all determination that there are no substantive financial or economic considerations regarding such action. The unit in Bielsko-Biała over the years, thanks to the determination of employees, has developed a considerable financial supply, which now wants to move, squander and spend centrally. The region will lose on this, and joining Katowice will result in the dismissal of workers and the loss of financial liquidity by the Bielsk road centre. It is a centre whose last year and a half of existence are continuous rotations of directors, mainly connected with the ruling party, such as the illiterate city councilman in Tychy Łukasz Drob or Janusz Freitag, candidate for mayor of Lêdzin and Member, of course from PiS. All this shows that in this case it is necessary for the Supreme Chamber of Control to carry out checks at the Regional Road Traffic Centre in Katowice and to take urgent action to maintain the centre in Bielsko-Biała as an independent unit. It is not known from now on that a functioning public administration is the basis for building citizens' confidence in the state. The actions of the Management Board of the Silesian Voivodeship regarding the planned liquidation of the Regional Road Traffic Centre in Bielsko-Biała are effectively undermining trust. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's time to stop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u443	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. [[There isn't any either.]] There isn't. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u444	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although it has been a while, I would like to remind you today that since this year, i.e. since 1 January 2021, the city of Solec nad Vistula in the district of Leipzig after 151 years has regained its city rights. In 1869 the village lost this status by order of the Tsar. The reason for this severe punishment was the active support of the January insurgents. The present inhabitants of Solca on the Vistula River have never accepted the loss of city status. Against these ambitions came the present mayor, and not so long ago, Mr Marek Szymczyk, who conducted a wide consultation with the inhabitants. Councillors have adopted an appropriate resolution and this has allowed the procedure for restoring urban rights to be published. And last year it was decided by the Council of Ministers and the dream of the inhabitants came true. I would like to assure you that Solec nad Vistula is an extremely charming city, which has preserved the intact original topographic structure of the building, which existed at least since the end of the 18th century, and the L-shaped market served as a cultural and recreational function. The city has a rich history. This story goes back to the 8th and 9th centuries. The oldest document concerning the village dates back to 1136, when the salty castle was the embodiment of the archbishop of Gniezno. Solec was bought in 1325 by Władysław Lokietyk. Then Kazimierz the Great placed this city on Magdeburg law, and during his reign a fortified castle was built. Unfortunately, during the Swedish Flood, Solec was almost completely destroyed. In the 18th century. They tried to rebuild Solec slowly, they rescued the castle, the church, and in 1866 a secondary school was established. As I said at the beginning of the speech, the plans were canceled by the January Uprising and the Tsar penalty for supporting the insurgents. Today, Solec and its people would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the entire government for restoring the status of Solc residents on the Vistula River. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to the city of Solec nad Vistula with all my heart. The city is extraordinary, beautiful, extremely charming, with a rich and beautiful building. The city has a beautiful historical parish church from the 14th century, with many beautiful monuments, a beautiful house that dates back to 1788 - a house with shades, a town hall from the 19th century and many other monuments. Come on in. It's worth to go, it's worth seeing, it's worth spending time in Solc nad Vistula. On behalf of all the residents, I thank both the government and, above all, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for fulfilling the hopes and ambitions of the inhabitants, and, after many, many years, Solec on the Vistula River regained its municipal rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u445	Thank you, Member. Salt over the Vistula. I feel encouraged. It's a beautiful commercial for the city. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! President Jarosław Kaczyński! Is nepotism in the PiS the norm? Mr. President, I would ask you very much to clarify the scale of nepotism you were talking about on the weekend. Explain to me why you're making a resolution to limit this nepotism. Is it really that bad? Will Jacek Sasin be able to carry out the task entrusted to him and carry out the verification? I'm afraid he's gonna need a lot of support from the entire army to check it out. There's a lot of newspaper coverage. I would like to ask, Mr President, if it is true - as the Łódź newspapers report - that only a month after Mr.Piotr Adamczyk, former head of the PiS Council Club in the Łódź Seym, at the end of September he became Deputy Marshal of the Łódź Voivodeship, his wife Mrs. Dorota Adamczyk within a month became Vice-Director of the Advisory Department for Business and Public Sector in the Łódź Regional Development Agency, a company which belongs to the local government of the Łódź Voivodeship. Is it true that the joint candidate of the Łódź Voivodeship and the Minister of the Environment for the position of Vice-President of the Provincial Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Łódź was Dr. Anna Górczyńska previously working at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Łódź, where at the same time Professor Zbigniew Rau, the Łódź Voivodeship, was the lecturer? Mr. President, under what circumstances did Mrs. Górczyńska, who is privately married to Andrzej Górczyński, become vice president? Ms Bożena Lis, director of the tax office, who has served for 10 years, has suddenly been dismissed by the finance department officials, and has been dismissed. In 2016, an unexpected change took place at the Łódź tax office. The officials were surprised by this decision. They claimed that they had good results, and the principal enjoyed a lot of trust in his superiors. Is it true, Mr. President, that after her cancellation, Mr. Witold Waszczykowski's brother, Mr. Tomasz Waszczykowski, was appointed to this position very quickly, who, according to the newspapers in Łódź, was qualified and could easily stand up for a real competition rather than perform duties? I wanted to ask if it is true that the wife of the vice-stars in the district of Tomaszów Mr Leszek Ogórek, Ms Teresa Ogórek, is the president of the Tomaszów County Development Foundation. I would also like to ask you about Mr Łukasz Kołoszczyk, who is married to Mrs Olga Kołoszczyk. Is it true that Mrs Olga Kołoszczyk, who is the chairman of the board of PiS county structures and the chairman of the district council in Sieradz... Is it true that when her husband was involved in the function of p.o. the director in the branch of the Łódź Agricultural Advisory Centre in Kościerzyn, did not have the required qualifications for managerial positions because he did not have enough years worked in managerial positions? I am also asked by locals who are still surprised that he had never been to these positions before and could have taken up this function. I'm gonna ask you to answer my questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u447	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u448	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, I would like to call on the Minister of Infrastructure to speed up work on the construction of the Beskydy Integration Way. Beskidzka Integracyjna Road is extremely important for both the southern part of the Silesian voivodship and the western part of the Lesser Poland voivodship. It is to connect Podbeskid, powiats: Bielski, żywiecki, Cieszyński, with Kraków, with the Malopolska agglomeration. It is also an extremely important road for residents of municipalities, which lie in the areas through which the Beskidzska Integration Road is to run, for residents of Kóz, Kęt, Andrychow, Wadowice or Kalwaria Zebrzydowska, and for all those municipalities that lie in the area. Thanks to the emergence of this road an extraordinary impetus for economic growth will be generated, mobility of inhabitants of all these areas will be improved, and what is extremely important, inhabitants of both the Beskid agglomeration and all the municipalities that will be on the Beskidzka Integrative Road route will gain very fast access to the markets of the Lesser Poland agglomeration. This will enable the exchange of goods and services, but also improve access to cultural, scientific and educational offers. All these arguments cause that the acceleration of the construction of the Beskidzki Integration Way is an extremely important, important thing. That is why today, as I am saying, I would like to call once again on the Ministry and ask for the work of building this road to be accelerated, because this will be an extremely strong impetus to the development of all our municipalities, which lie in the area where this road will arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u449	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u450	Declaration on VI Congress of Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following us is the VI Congress of Law and Justice, during which party authorities were set up and a strategy for action was set up. From this point of view, I congratulate you and at the same time thank President Jarosław Kaczyński for once again becoming President of the party. Each of those 1245 votes you received deserved as much as possible. Thank you for allowing us to change Poland under your leadership. At the same time, I congratulate Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, MEP Joachim Brudziński, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, Mariusz Kaminski and Mr Antoni Macierewicz on the role of Vice President of Law and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u451	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The end of the school year is one of the greatest days for the school community. Vacation is a time of rest and joy. An overworked school year, filled with success, but also with troubles and problems, is a school's everyday life. Teachers, educators, young people, children and parents worked together to make it a successful year. It was a different year than before. The Pandemic forced drastic changes in the educational system. The teaching staff, the students and the parents passed this difficult exam. In addition to the wishes of wonderful, sunny and successful holidays, we must also remember the dangers. During the holiday period, during the carefree period of the cannibal, it often happens that both children, young people and, unfortunately, adults forget the dangers. Every day the media reports drownings, accidents, fires and disappearances. Very often, children and young people become victims. Although we all know the basic principles of water safety, mountains, forests or roads, unfortunately, this does not look good in practice. Police, fire department, water rescue and other institutions carry out many trainings, demonstrations and preventive actions. They all have one goal: to identify threats, to teach us how to avoid them and how to behave in critical situations. It is very important that each of us, regardless of our age during the holidays, maintain common sense and remember the dangers. Many family tragedies can thus be avoided. In previous years, I have organized this kind of action in my territory. Together with the State Fire and Police Command in Ciechanów, we organized a picnic and children's screenings on the Krubin water basin near Ciechanow. In many meetings with children and young people, I emphasized and warned against dangers. This year I also took part in the preventive action of security organized by the District Command of the State Fire Service, Water Volunteer Emergency Service and the Police District Command in Ciechanów. Firefighters, water rescuers, cops -- for what you're doing, you deserve your compliments and thanks. A safe holiday is a wonderful holiday.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u452	My speech is dictated by the need to learn about the rights of a child, especially a small child, i.e. one at age until the end of the preschool period, which in the adult world will not defend itself. After 45 years as a doctor, including for over 20 years a family doctor, I see this problem getting brighter and brighter, and now as a politician I intervene on children harmed not only by my own parents, but also by institutions that act on behalf of the law. These are family and caring courts, but also courts ruling on divorce of spouses and heartlessly passing a child to a father or a mother without having a greater reflection on whether this is a good decision for a child. The parties' lawyers decide who is a better erudite or who has the approval of a judge. The opinions of a team of psychologists who are subject to court decisions are not objective, because most often the child is not examined or asked what is best for him. The opinion of widely representative people, persons who know the child, including external, out-of-court opinions, should be legally permitted. I observe a devastating fight for the right of a father or a mother to a child, but above all a father, often an aggressive person, disturbed and acting on an ex-partner, while a child is the object of this fight between parents. Fathers are organized on web portals on how to effectively influence courts, how to win this fight with mother, while mothers are looking for help in associations or politicians on how to defend themselves and the child. We have court rulings issued in spite of medical advice about suspected sexual harassment or physical and mental violence against a child, stating that it is to be given in order to contact a parent who is afraid of harming him. The courts punish the parent for not punishing the child with money often severely depleting the other parent. Either there's a decision to give the child to another parent immediately, or there's a risk of giving the child to a foster family, i.e. Taking him away from his biological mother because that's what the father wants, or there's a prison sentence too long, for not giving a child up for contact. There is also the idea of alternate care, in which the child is temporarily with the mother, temporarily with the father. So where is the right of the child to be safe and loved and not really homeless? I appeal to the Polish Parliament: Let us bow down to our children and find legal solutions good for children when their family home falls apart.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In mid-May 2021 the president of PiS and the deputy prime minister of the government Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki presented the project of the new Polish programme Ład. Among the most important proposals, which were found in the Polish Łada, under which the leaders of the United Right were signed, are: 30,000. the tax-free amount for all and the increase of the tax rate of 85 000. PLN up to 120 thousand. zł. This will reduce taxes for more than 18 min Poles. The mere increase in the amount of free income means that the tax will not be paid from 65 percent. pensions, as well as from the lowest wage; tax-free pension; non-tax pensions for benefits up to 2,5 000. zł; removal of limits to specialists, the limits for children and young people will be lifted to 18. r. and then for all patients; 7% GDP for health; more resources from the government will be allocated to health, which will focus on investment, digitisation, new staff and modern therapies; living without own contribution; the state will guarantee its own contribution to 100,000. PLN and funding for people who benefit from social housing and families of many children; a house without formalities; it will be possible to build single-family houses up to 70 m There will be huge grants for municipalities and powiats for investment purposes. There will be higher subsidies for agricultural fuel and easier direct sales by farmers. The rate of aid for agricultural fuel will be increased to PLN 110/1 ha and the agricultural retail trade will be released. Kopernik's small science centres in Poland are to be established in several dozen small science centres Kopernik in medium and small Polish cities. In addition, the plan provides for a reduction in PIT for persons employed for employment contracts with annual income in the range of 70 to 130 thousand. zł. With this solution, the reform will be neutral for taxpayers employed for employment contracts with income from 6 to 10 000. PLN per month. The proposals will be designed so that the people employed for the contract will not lose even at the earnings of 10 and 12.5 thousand. zł. This is guaranteed by the relief for the middle class provided in the Polish Łódź. Those who earn 13,000 on the employment contract. PLN will pay only 13 PLN per month. The tax reform will benefit families in particular because it significantly increases the benefits of the joint settlement of spouses. By sealing, the tax system will be fairer. The system is so designed that people employed for employment contracts do not lose even at the earnings of 10 zł. This is guaranteed by the relief for the middle class provided in the Polish Łódź. Those who make a living on a 13,000-dollar contract. PLN will pay only 13 PLN per month. The tax reform is particularly beneficial for families as it significantly increases the benefits of the joint settlement of spouses. By sealing, the tax system will be fairer. In order to introduce a groundbreaking program implementing the Polish Load, it will be necessary to adopt about 150 laws. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government party needs peace and mobilization in order to implement beneficial solutions for the vast majority of Poles, while we are dealing with the return of Donald Tusk and his division of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-08-sejm-34-2.u454	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 34th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 35th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 21, 22 and 23 July 2021, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 03]]
