ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the 25th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Richard Świlski, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Victor Durlak as secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Ryszard Śvilski, and in room 217 Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. As I understand it, and as I see it, the Senators have already taken their seats. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up to ask questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would like to remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Ryszard Śvilski and Senator Alexander Szwed, and in room 217, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Victor Durlak. Please also forward legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements to the Senators of the Secretaries. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I hope that all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Check it out. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to the questions and discuss through the chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press the button twice after the vote, in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. I therefore ask for a vote. Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] And so many are currently taking part in the deliberations. I inform you that at its 30th meeting on 20 and 28 May 2021, the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate notified to the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws, as well as part of the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of Housing or Unifamily House and the Developer's Guarantee Fund, to the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and some other laws and to the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws. At the same meeting, on 20 and 28 May this year, the Sejm rejected all the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and to certain other laws, to the Act amending the Act on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading and certain other laws, to the Act amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws, as well as to the Act amending the Law on Foreign Service. In addition, the Sejm held its 30th meeting on 20 May this year. rejected the Senate resolutions rejecting the law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws and laws on amending the Act on Family Support and the foster care system. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of objections to the minutes of the twenty-second meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 23rd Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of you raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would remind you that the draft law to be discussed in the first item of the agenda was introduced by the Council of Ministers as an urgent project. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I therefore state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 21st meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, I inform you that for the consideration of the third point, i.e. information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the actions of the Polish Government on the situation in Belarus, including repression of the Polish minority, we will proceed no earlier than at 3 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. Welcome to the meeting of guests: Chairman of the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics, Krystyna Ptok, I welcome you And the President of the General Medical Council, Professor Andrzej Matya. The text of the Act is contained in print No 418 and the report of the Commission In print No 418 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As Senator, I am pleased to present a report on the work of the Health Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 28 May 2021 amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to our committee on 31 May. At a meeting of the Health Committee yesterday, on 9 June, this law was examined. As a result of our work, we have created a draft attached draft resolution, which has been adopted unanimously in the Health Committee and which I would like to present to the High House. However, I would first like to discuss some very important issues that concern the progress of the entire legislative process as well as the discussions at the committee meeting. We believe that the contested law is undoubtedly very important, and we are talking here about the lowest wages. The issue of human resources, pay for health workers is now becoming one of the most important topics of the public debate. The issue of health pay is undoubtedly one of the key elements in the management of medical staff. During the work of the Health Committee there was a very broad, substantive discussion. At the meeting of the Health Committee there were representatives of all medical professions as well as trade unions. During the discussion, it was clear that this law on the lowest salaries was really just a seed, the first step to meet the huge challenge facing the Ministry of Health and the government. The point is that medical personnel, health professionals should be dealt with in a comprehensive way. Here, in this House, in talks on health issues, on issues in the health system, the issue of human resources, including medical personnel, has always been a priority. We believe that in order for the health system to rise up after the epidemic and to be an effective system that can safeguard society, it must first have a well-qualified, well-paid and thus effectively working staff. Without this, the system will absolutely not be able to function. Therefore, this law, which we are working on today, is not a document that satisfies the health workers' environment. I would like to stress this with all my power because... at the Health Committee's meeting, all the environments have repeatedly stressed that during the two-year talks with the Ministry of Health 'Cause two years of conversations lasted. Finally, no agreement was reached with all the environments. I would like to make it clear that the Trade Union Forum of medical circles has finally presented a separate opinion. This is very important in the context of the follow-up to the whole agreement process, because the Minister at the meeting of the Health Committee said that this is not only a good change and not only an increase in the remuneration of health professionals, but also a solution found in the compromise. Moreover, this is also the case in the explanatory memorandum. During the committee meeting, these words were rejected, but there was a separate voice and it turns out that despite this 2-year dialogue and contacts with the Ministry of Health, the agreement was ultimately not concluded. This is an important element, because the questions were immediately asked: how should we continue to talk about the shape of human resources, about support for human resources, about actions that will not allow us to leave our country; how should we secure an ageing society if there is no proper dialogue and discussion between the Ministry of Health and the environment? I think the time when everything was on the principle that I know better, it's definitely over. And in the case of health protection, so strongly affected by the coronavirus, such a dialogue should be done out of respect for the very hard work of these workers. And that's one thing that's been raised. Therefore, this mode, which is given here, the urgent procedure of the bill, is somewhat contrary to the fact that for 2 years there have been talks that have not ended with a satisfactory agreement. And all of a sudden, there's such an acceleration that, as of 1 July, this project with an increase in wages for the lowest earners is adopted as a matter of urgency. This also shows how we proceed. The fact that on the one hand there are discussions that do not bear fruit and on the other hand there is a full acceleration of work in the Seym and in the Senate. In addition, during the work of the committee, the legislator, the patron, raised a very important point that, by 1 July, although it was noted that the allocation of these measures would be by agreement, this would simply not be possible in the medical entities, because temporarily, until 1 July, this procedure could not be used in accordance with the technique. The second point is, of course, the proposed conversion factors, the wage increases. Well, with all due respect to non-medical personnel who work in health care and have the lowest income, we absolutely believe that these people should be raised, even if due to the crazy inflation that we have at the moment. So no one has any doubts about that. However, remember: And I would also like to stress this very strongly, because this issue was also highlighted at the Health Committee's meeting. That health care is primarily based on medical staff. They're building the health system. All the rest, very much needed, without which there would also be no whole system, is however a helping element in the work of medical workers. And now, what happened? Because by raising the wages of these low earners, normal flattening of wages and a fully understandable veto was achieved by medical workers. With regard to the issue of the conversion rates themselves, of course, a number of proposals were made at the meeting of the Health Committee, but finally an amendment was proposed, which is in some way an amendment to the agreement, an amendment that does not fully satisfy anyone, but also does not discriminate against anyone. This is an amendment which respects continuing education, improving qualifications, and appreciating different forms of education. This is the result of a consensus between the medical community, the medical authorities, all of which I stress. And trade unions. It is important, it has been submitted to the Health Committee and has been voted on. In response to this amendment, the Minister said very important words. He said that the procedure of the bill is very urgent, because the salary must be raised quickly, but he also said that it is open to further discussion and further improvement when it comes to remuneration. This amendment, Minister, High Izbo, gives you this opportunity. She's giving us a chance to start a real dialogue. Once again, I stress that the proposals for changes in the coefficients were many, but the one proposed by the Health Committee and voted by the Health Committee is a consensus developed jointly by all medical communities and trade unions. And that's why it's so valuable. In addition to this amendment, two others were tabled, which changed the conversion factors in terms of remuneration. The first one is equally important because it concerns the addition of a new article, which obliges the healthcare provider to pay from the following month... This means yes: if the employee raises his qualifications and lodges full documents in his medical facility, in his workplace, the administration is obliged, in accordance with this amendment, to pay him a higher salary from the month following the submission of the full documents. This is very important, because it turns out that the employees had many qualifications raised, did various kinds of specializations and courses, and they could not ask for the salary increase to occur from the vending machine. These are the 2 amendments that were tabled at the Health Committee meeting and voted positive. The third amendment was a proposal from the legislative office, which also received our recommendation. High Izbo, why is this bill so important today, in pocovid or actually still covid? Please bear in mind that the epidemic is still with us and that there is a second epidemic on this epidemic, which is connected with the huge. I stress: a huge increase in the number of people who have not had access to early diagnostics, laboratory tests and doctors for six months. Now very often with chronic ailments, these complications are reported to medical facilities. It's just started. Unfortunately, as experts say, doctors, this is the beginning of a tragic wave of civilizational diseases, chronic diseases. What's the situation with HR right now? Well, High Izbo, let me call you a few numbers that make a really big impression. In 2020, so in the year of the epidemic summit, a thousand fewer nurses entered the health system. This is a really big crowd, because every year about 10,000 nurses retire and the system averages between 3 and 4,000. So please note how year by year a hole is growing, a generational hole, visible in the number of nursing staff. We have about 5 nurses per 1,000 people, such a conversion is in Poland, in Europe it is over 8 and we are also in Europe. Let us remember that we are also in Europe and that health indicators, showing the number of staff employed, should also apply to us. It's the same with doctors. We have about 2.5 doctors per 1,000 people, which puts us really in the end. It's a shame to admit it. At the time of the Prime Minister's speech, about 8,000 nurses graduated each year. I realized that this $8,000 after receiving our nursing degree was powered up by our staff. Well, no, my dear High Izbo, that is unfortunately a bad assessment. These nurses are graduating, taking their diplomas, but they don't necessarily go into the system because they don't have motivation, they don't have satisfaction, and they don't have a really good place to work, and they want to get involved with their careers. What's more, some of these 8,000 graduate from Bachelor's degree for their own money. This isn't money from the state budget. These are their private money that they spend on college, so they don't have to go into a system that doesn't work well for them and isn't friendly to them. And one more number that was shocking to me, too. For 250,000 nurses, approximately 83,000 are people over 50 years of age. This is a really shocking number. Given our demographic situation, our ageing society and the challenges we face, which we have really stopped talking about lately... Have we, at least once in the High House, talked very seriously about senior policy, how to ensure that people are old enough, how to provide staff, professional staff to take care of these people? We have talked here, in this House, about the National Plan for Reconstruction, about those important priorities that are supposed to concern health, and the position of health in the entire National Plan for Reconstruction is seventh. But as far as HR is concerned, we were just talking about students, talking about medical schools, about their needs, and that was the end of the conversation. After all, it is not only about developing young people, but also about maintaining them in the market, proposing good jobs and career paths. That is the incentive, and this debate, unfortunately, was not there, Minister. So the project that has been submitted, we treat as the beginning of the road, we treat as the first element of conversations, very holistic, strategic, about staff, about medical staff, about salaries. Please bear in mind that when there was a disaster when you had to say all hands on deck, these crews put their hands on board and gave their best. And when we have to talk seriously about what to do and how to encourage these people to work in our country, to educate, to improve their qualifications, and to earn a decent wage, we no longer see such a great will to discuss. To sum up, of course, the Committee on Health welcomes the proposal presented because, as a government project, it aims to raise the minimum, lowest wages in health care. But once again, I very strongly stress that the Committee on Health has heard very strong voices that it is really... I do not want to say that it is a warning, but that if there is no real dialogue with the medical side, with medical environments, if there are no common projects and common solutions, then in the protection of health in terms of resources, there will be drama in terms of medical staff. And we're gonna be responsible for that, because right now, we're really the only organ in the world. I'm not talking about the Senate, I'm talking about a government team that should provide not only a conversation, but also funding and decent working conditions. The resolution was adopted unanimously. All senators voted in favour of the bill in its entirety with 3 amendments adopted. I ask the High House to support our solutions. Once again, I would like to stress that the issue is really for them and for us both the presence of the President of the General Medical Chamber and the President of the Trade Unions bear witness to this fact. And for the whole environment, it's extremely important. I ask all your senators to be careful when voting and I ask you to support these amendments, which are the result of a consensus of the whole environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Stay in the bleacher because two people came forward to ask questions. First in order is Senator Necessary, second Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the following questions for the president. Will regulations cover the financing of mandatory future wage increases? Whether the law is enshrined in the law is both a government project and a project after our amendments have been introduced .. that if e.g. Nurses get a higher education, then their salaries automatically increase? Does the calculation of the financing of wage increases also include employees employed under civil law contracts together with the proposed change in the settlement of health contributions? Because we know what's proposed. Is this optionally included in the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u5	Thank you very much. As regards the issue of remuneration in connection with qualifications, it is thanks to our committee amendments that individual professional groups have been distinguished here, depending on whether they have a master's degree or a bachelor's degree, a master's degree and specialization, or only staff with a secondary education, but for example. with a second working period. To be fair, as regards groups of workers in health care, their education and the ability to improve their qualifications, it is so diverse that it was not easy to break up all these groups and respect all the groups. I think that this is also a challenge for the government and for the Minister of Health, so that on this subject, on the issue of qualifications, recognition of other professions, which are very important here, for example. about public health graduates then on the issue of improving qualifications, because nurses do e.g. Specialization in health education, which we talk about so much about, but it's not recognized... I believe that this is an important issue for the government and for the Minister of Health, and that is why we need to start a discussion on how to improve qualifications and value positions. That's the answer to the first question. About the second question... There was no such discussion at the Health Committee meeting. If the senator wants that information. I don't have it. Please ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u6	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In her report, the Senator gave her opinion critical of the government's assessment of legislative work, amendments, statistics, and the National Plan for Reconstruction. And I'd like to ask. 'Cause it's like it's not in the report. This amendment implies that this amendment is to be implemented. Which salaries and how much will they increase according to the Ministry's proposal? If the senator could zoom in on what's going on with this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u8	Mr. Senator, I didn't read the justification because I think each of the senators has read the justification. It seemed to me even a little bit, so to speak, derogatory to read it to you, because I think you've all read the bill thoroughly with justification. I reported, described the atmosphere and discussion in the Health Committee, and all these issues I was talking about here were raised at the Health Committee meeting. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u9	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u10	Thank you very much. Senator, well, first of all, you report on the draft of this amendment, which is proposed. And I'd like to ask... Because the impact assessment states here that the costs of the Ministry of Health's proposal for 2021 are in the order of PLN 3.62 billion, for 2022 PLN 7.8 billion, for 2023 already more than PLN 10 billion, and later PLN 15 billion. But in 2021 it is PLN 3.62 billion, which I understand will be spent on healthcare salaries. Were these statistics presented at the Health Committee meeting? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u11	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u12	Of course, the question of this amount of 3.6 billion was raised. We talked about it, although it was also questioned, among others. by the healthcare providers, whether that's enough for sure. But indeed the question of this amount of 3.6 billion was raised, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u13	Thank you. Now you ask Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, this is a bit of a continuation of the previous question, i.e. My previous speaker's questions. The point is that these changes relate to basic salaries, and this entails an increase in all derivatives such as night work allowances, Sundays, holidays, such as medical work allowances, service allowances, function fees, bonuses, etc. Salary increases are significant and the financial consequences for hospitals It's very big. Did you receive a guarantee at the committee meeting from the government or from the minister that these financial consequences would not be transferred to local governments and hospitals? The question is whether the increases that are reasonable and necessary will be carried out, but the costs will largely be borne by hospitals and local authorities. Was there a discussion on this subject and was this problem raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u15	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u16	Of course, the problem is known to us, because healthcare providers are concerned about whether the costs calculated by the Ministry of Health will cover all derivatives. This has been discussed, but remember that it was a government project, so the issue of the OSR, the calculated effects of the regulation, is binding for us. It was the Ministry of Health who said it would be okay. PLN 3.6 billion. During the committee meeting, the Minister also confirmed the source of the money for these salaries, confirming that this money is and will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u17	Thank you. Senator Joseph the Hare. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Joseph the Hare? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Remotely. [[Okay, I've got...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! While there is no doubt about the validity of the contested law and the regulation of remuneration, my concerns are whether medicinal products will receive funding in parallel with the adoption of mandatory wage increases and whether the financing of the increase in salaries of workers outside the core activity group will be ensured. The next thing I know, I'm gonna let her jump. Is the wage gap From 0.28% for specialist doctors up to almost 40% for primary workers without education and qualifications, was it intended? The next question is whether the calculation of the financing of wage increases involves an increase in the funding of derivatives in terms of components of remuneration, independent of the amount of the basic salary and paid periodically, i.e. Jubilee and pension prizes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u20	Senator, that's the kind of question the senators didn't ask during the committee meeting. I think all these questions will be answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u21	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I address Minister Miłkowski. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: If possible, yes.]] You're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I would like to ask very cordially for this law to be adopted, because we consider as a government, as the Ministry of Health, as a trialogue, that this law is very important, very important for the health system and for the most important resources that are in the health system. And the most valuable resource of every country is medical staff and basic activity staff, because without this staff no benefits can be provided. It is people who create this value, so important for patients and for all of us, because we ourselves are very often patients. So that we agreed that further changes are needed, that further appreciation of employees will be very important. Together with the Tripartite Health Team, we agreed that such a change is needed. And I would like to say that in the explanatory memorandum of this bill it was written that the Tripartite Group had fully accepted the proposal to amend the Law on the setting of the lowest salaries in health care, taking into account the separate opinion expressed by the social side, by the Trade Union Forum. But according to the Social Dialogue Council standards, this has been agreed. Besides, it's the same in many other collegial bodies. Well, one vote doesn't make the bill go away. Even in the case of this law, which was passed by a large majority of the votes cast, 443 votes in favour, 3 against. That didn't make the bill go away. You have to be aware that this is how collegial bodies, teams work. But this law is very important, because, as of today, many of the health workers are still in the sector. This applies to both medical activities, i.e. medical staff and non-medical staff, earns under the basic salary below the lowest wage in the economy. This is because these people have equal pay for different internships or special allowances. And in order not to be so, this law accelerates the entry into force of the target indicators, sets it on July 1st, so that from July 1 there will be no more such a situation as to all the groups that are here... And an increase for those indicators that are specified, which are presented, is necessary for all professional groups to increase these salaries. It is also important that, thanks to the resolution of this law, some nursing staff with a higher education, with a Bachelor's degree, will be eligible for higher wage groups, so that all staff will receive an additional increase related to the indicator. Of course, he will also receive a raise in terms of the fact that these solutions for the lowest salaries come into force on 1 July, i.e. each of the staff who earns below the lowest salary that has been determined must now earn so much. There were questions about the financing of this bill. Mr. Marshal told the press that this bill wasn't worth much, but most likely, after the Senate's amendments, it would be much better. I would like to say that this law is worth PLN 4 billion, and that we do not think it is so little, 8 billion a year, but it is very important measures in the health system and not only. The state often deals with laws, and these are not always laws on costs above PLN 1 billion. For us, however, this is important. This law contains several other important elements. The Act guarantees that entities, healthcare providers will not be able to reduce the salaries that medical workers currently receive. There have been such voices that the providers of those workers who have so far received a separate remuneration will eventually reduce their remuneration. right before this law enters into force. So that's not an option, this bill guarantees it. Of course, Madam President was talking about improving this bill. We have declared and agreed that this is the first step in raising wages, because today we can spend so much money. There is not yet a law increasing expenditure on the health system. There's a guarantee. And we've been waiting for this declaration. That we will be able to continue to talk and continue to try to solve problems in the system, that we will still be able to raise these lowest salaries. At the last meeting of our tripartite team, the Prime Minister presented such growth declarations and we are to work on this together with the whole industry. I hope that also with the staff represented by the Trade Union Forum. I'm available because I'm sure there will be questions and I'll answer them in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u23	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Wojciech Necessary is here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions. Since the Minister was kind enough not to answer the questions at the meeting of the Health Committee, here I will have to repeat some of them. The first question is: did the pandemic have an impact on the determination of these indicators? Were they established before the pandemic, during it, or now, recently? Did the New Poland Load, which you want to introduce and which assumes an increase in the number of staff members, especially medical and nursing, affect the determination of these indicators? Did you take this into account, or were these indicators established before the findings related to the New Polish Ład? How did you get a 0.1 on the doctor's index? I mean. why is 1,31 and not e.g. 1,30? Before that, it was 1.3 and 1.6. So it's clear that this indicator has been lowered here, but I have a question as to where this 0.1 came from, what this calculation indicated was that this 0.1 had just appeared. Then I have the question you asked Senator Rabbit, and I'll be happy to repeat it. Will healthcare providers receive funding in parallel with the adoption of mandatory wage increases? I mean, is it going to be like this so far that the hospital has to pay first... So if these regulations enter into force from July, 1 July, then an increased remuneration will have to be paid until 10 August. Will the hospitals get that money, or do they have to pay those salaries first, and then they'll get some refunds, money from the NFZ? [[Mr. Senator, how many more questions do you have?]] Well, I can limit myself to another one. [[No, well, I'm asking because... you can ask, but I'd ask for an answer right now, and you'd ask for an answer in the second round. If you have one question, go ahead, but...]] I've got two. How does a marshal decide... I can hold off on these two questions and...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u25	Okay, well, maybe we can do that so the Minister can answer these questions, and then you can ask another one. [[Okay, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u26	The first question is: did the pandemic affect the definition of indicators? The negotiations started in February, so it was a pandemic period. And we talked regardless of the pandemic, independently agreed with the parties, that despite the pandemic, despite such a difficult period, despite the many tasks that we have, each party has, this is an important subject, and that is why this subject needs to be addressed. And in fact, we did it during the pandemic period. But, as a rule, the pandemic had no impact on these indicators. Besides, these are further good changes, those which are presented in this law. The previous amendment entered into force on 1 January this year, which refers to the remuneration which will be updated annually for each employee, the lowest remuneration, in proportion to the average salary in the economy. So that on 1 July each must be compensated in case, if the remuneration is lower than this additional... And did it affect these indicators and findings of Poland Load? He had no influence on this because we signed the agreement on 17 March. All the work was in February and March. In April and May, there was government work. So until then, we didn't know, we didn't know how it would all be presented in the New Deal. But at the same time, we have taken the assumption that, if the possibility of increasing expenditure on the health care system is presented, we are ready, willing to cooperate further and we will try to resolve... the further elements of this law. We are now scheduled for another meeting, and there will be two more in June. The first will be to agree on what groups of employees should be defined in the various categories of professional groups. Why is there 0.1 in the case of doctors? Of course I understand that the point is why 0.04 ... From 1.27 to 1.31 this increases in the case of doctors with specialization. In the case of non-specialised doctors, this actually increases from 1.05 to 1.06 and in the case of primary workers, other than medical workers, other than those specified in detail From 0,58 to 0,59 . It was a team arrangement. There was this proposal, and then we agreed together on what it was supposed to look like, of course, with the assumption that we were able to finance it, that we were able to cover the costs of this bill. This was a very important element when it comes to signing the agreement. Will medicinal products be given sooner or later? Will they even receive the funds resulting from this law? Yes. There is a regulation on the general terms and conditions of contracts, which has always regulated additional salaries, to be specified for individual workers, financed by the National Health Fund. This bill is also decreed. There are additional funds to cover these salaries. After the bill came into force... At the same time, we want the general terms and conditions of the agreements to be entered into so that the service providers can provide us with full information about the necessary resources for the implementation of the law. In this Act it is specified that the medical entities, trade unions agree with the employer... This is gonna happen at the turn of June and July. We plan that by the end of the month these matters will be added at the level of the National Health Fund branches and all healthcare providers. The National Health Fund will amend the agreements accordingly and transfer the funds to these entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u27	Thank you, Minister. Senator Wojciech Necessary, there you go again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u28	Minister, thank you. I'd like to ask you one more question. Please tell me straight away whether by 10 August the hospitals will get the money from the NFZ and whether they will be able to pay the raises, or if they will have to borrow, and then the money from the NFZ will get it when they pay the salary. Answer that question. That's how I explain it. I have another question. Will funding be provided for wage increases for workers outside the core activity group? I'm talking about administrative staff, I'm talking about hardware workers, browsers, electricians, and all kinds of other people who are employed in hospitals, and whose necessity has been shown by a pandemic, for example. those that supply hospitals with oxygen, etc. Will the hospitals get the right resources? I ask this because it is known that the wage gap between groups will increase greatly. And one last question. Will the financial calculation of wage increases include an increase in derivatives financing? I'm talking about components of remuneration that depend on the amount of the basic salary, e.g. Jubilee prizes, pensions, pensions, etc.? Do you consider this, or will hospitals be burdened with this and be without state aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u29	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u30	Thank you very much. By clarifying the answer to the last, previous question, whether the hospitals will receive funds on August 10th, or whether they will eventually receive them in the subsequent periods in which they will be paid... We plan that the remuneration will be separated on the invoice, on the bill according to the needs of individual hospitals. I didn't wonder when the deadline would be, but according to the current guidelines that are in the National Health Fund, the National Health Fund pays for benefits from downstairs, i.e. after issuing an invoice for the whole month. However, as you know, it is also possible to advance earlier, to issue a partial invoice for a given period. So that perhaps in this case something like this is justified and possible. Next question: will non-core workers receive additional remuneration? No. The Law on the lowest remuneration in health care refers to the remuneration of medical professionals and primary health care professionals. Consequently, that part of the workforce which is not employed as part of the core activity is not covered by that law. We're not talking about the rest of it. At the same time, in the Tripartite Group for Health Protection, we have talked a lot about this issue, that we cannot allocate as a team all the resources for raising the lowest wage, because we also need funds for the salaries of workers other than those with the lowest wage, for the purchase of new health benefits or for the increase in the number of benefits. Especially now, in this post-video period, it is very important to spend money also on the provision of health services, so as to rebuild the health of Poles as soon as possible. The question of derivatives is whether they will also be covered. Yes. We are planning to gather information from medicinal entities, we are planning to have information about not only the basic salary, because here we are talking about the basic salary, but also the resulting increases in the basic salaries of all the necessary derivatives that are related to the basic salary. So, of course, for all derivatives, i.e. internships, night allowances, various other allowances, as well as the costs of employers... This will also include calculations and we want to allocate funds to the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u31	Thank you, Minister. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. Were there experts, representatives of the professional government of doctors, nurses and midwives, pharmacists involved in these negotiations? If not, who was involved in these negotiations? Because I have some doubts as to whether you were setting these rates with people who could advise, help with the drafting of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u33	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u34	Thank you for that question. According to the Social Dialogue Council Act, there are 3 parties: the government side, the employers' side, which was represented by several groups of employers, and the social side, which consists of 3 trade union organisations, i.e. the OPZZ, the Solidarity Forum and the Trade Union Forum. And it was these three organisations that took part in the negotiations. And since other parties that are not represented in the work of the Social Dialogue Council are also very important, we have asked those organisations that had a side of employers or employees to invite experts from other parties as well. And also the experts of the pharmacists, doctors, of course also nurses, all were invited to this team, also residents. So these people were also experts in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u35	Thank you. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Mr. Marshal, may I ask? Because the Minister didn't answer my question.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u36	So, the professional authorities weren't invited to the triangular committee? I'm asking you to make this clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u37	Parliament has not amended the Act on the Social Dialogue Council and there it is specified who can be a member. We are not able as the Ministry of Health to amend the Act on the Social Dialogue Council, we cannot invite other people, but as experts, yes, all parties have been invited.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u38	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Senator, the draftsman of the committee, spoke here about a small number of nurses, even as if she empathized with these numbers. Tell me if you can tell us how many nurses were employed in the Polish health system, e.g. in 2014, I mean the full year in which the previous coalition ruled, and in 2020. Which number is larger?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u40	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u41	I can't tell you exactly what the numbers were, but over the last four years, the training for nurses and midwives has been significantly higher every year. Last year, 8.5,000 people started their studies, training for nurses. We have managed to do this in the last 5 years by increasing, a very large increase in the number of places of education, large, because by 50%, from 70 to 107. This has led to the fact that we have the opportunity to train more nurses and midwives. The same is true among doctors, and here too is a very important increase in the recruitment of medical students. And also what was very specific in the strategy, in the Polish Lad, that the qualifications of medical personnel are very important. Therefore, very important actions will be aimed at increasing recruitment in all those medical professions that are needed. Also according to other laws, with laws on other medical professions, we are trying to increase recruitment so that this team working with the patient is wide, that each professional group will do what is most prepared for, and that this is the most efficient health care for the patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u42	Thank you, Minister. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. One on the basis of your last comparison, the number of nurses entering the market, and the number of nurses who are studying. Answer me this question: are there 8,5,000 people who start their studies or are in the course of their nursing studies, a number of nurses who already work in the profession and complete their education? Can you tell the numbers? The second question concerns the fact that there is no possibility of recognition of higher education other than nursing education, which would give the nurse the opportunity to be placed in the indicator group described in item 9. It's about a nurse or a midwife who's not a specialist. It has not been taken into account that a nurse may have a higher education in nursing, and there are many such situations where nurses from nursing schools have completed their education with one which is, so to speak, the closest to their work, e.g. working with children or working in branches that require a lot of knowledge in the field of health science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u44	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u45	Thank you for that question. As far as education is concerned, it is specified that the education required in a given position... If an employer wants to have nurses with a higher education in psychology or otherwise, then of course such nurses will be treated as people with a higher education. Here is one of the amendments, the Minister presented this amendment, that... this amendment was narrower, and the point was that getting additional education from the vending machine during the course of work would allow for re-training, moving to a specific group. We explained at the Parliamentary Committees' meetings that such regulation should not take place because it is the employer who should determine how he wants to shape remuneration. However, according to this law, that is to say, after the adoption of this amendment in such a form, actually every person employed as part of the basic activity Room, meal or disinfectant person It will automatically be included in the group with a minimum, lowest salary of PLN 4,000 186, as will the vast majority of nurses. Well, it's gonna disturb the situation a little bit, not just in the health system, not just in the medical community. There is a large group of medical staff that earns much less than basic staff and has a master's degree or at least a bachelor's degree, and we have a lot of those who work in primary and also have a higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u46	Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. And the first question...]] Say it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u47	My question was about the number of nurses starting college. Does this number include the ones that are already nurses?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u48	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u49	I can't do 100%. confirm, but according to the data I received, no... This is the number of people starting medical studies.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u50	Thank you very much. I have a question for you, Minister. A law has recently entered into force to facilitate the employment of foreign doctors from outside the European Union who would like to work with us. I read that these doctors arrived around 80. I'd ask you to tell me how many of these doctors have come, how many have come forward, how many have passed the ministerial check and how many docs have accepted. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much. Oh, yeah.]] If you couldn't answer that question, I would have asked for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u51	Good. In fact, I will provide a written reply because additional staff is also a very important element. Because I make these decisions after examining all the criteria that are in the bill, I know that as for doctors, the third hundred is exceeded, so there are already over 300 such people, with such numbers we make decisions. Definitely less staff of another, that is, rescuers, nurses, but also here it is getting better, so that these numbers increase. But the actual numbers, as it is today, I'm going to put them in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u52	Thank you very much. In writing, I understand. Now Senator Beat Małecka-Libera. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll answer to the Marshal: 158 foreign doctors have been granted permission and working. 158. [[Thank you, ma'am, but I asked...]] But I wanted to... [[...the minister and I expect an answer.]] I'd just like to ask the Minister... Mr. Minister very cleverly answered the question about the number of nurses in the system and the staff so little did not answer about it, because you were talking about recruiting nurses for college. And here we agree, actually it's about $8,000 a year, with doubts about whether they'll all go into this system. But I have a question, Minister, very concrete: will you confirm that every year there are no problems with average staff, that the number of nurses per year is not reduced and that there are no problems with the upcoming period, when a large number of middle staff will go to retirement? Isn't that what you really see?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u54	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u55	These are, of course, two elements. Nurses, nurses' union and nurses' and midwives' chambers actually say that there are nurses who can't get a job and that they're not interested in... Therefore, we see two elements: that the nurses are not enough and of course we will continue to educate... But there's also a problem. At least that's what the union and the nursing home maintain. The number of nurses is higher every year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u56	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we are very positive about the project, so that we will certainly support it. I would still like to ask about the sources of funding. The Minister has said this in part. But in the impact assessment we have information that the cost of the Ministry of Health's proposal will be PLN 3.62 billion and that it will be expenditure on the NFZ side. The Minister was talking here about 4 billion. Will any other expenses be proposed here? I would also like to ask if wages will increase, as proposed. Because we didn't get that kind of information in the report, so I'd ask the Minister for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u58	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u59	Thank you. As regards additional sources of funding, NFZ funding is intended for staff who are employed in medicinal entities and carry out health benefits on the basis of these contracts, therefore they are de facto providers of health benefits financed by the public payer. This is what these measures are intended for, which are set out in the impact assessment. And the additional resources that we are talking about, up to 4 billion, is funding directly from the state budget, from the health minister's funds. We finance here mainly the salaries of trainees' doctors, doctors specialising in residency and medical staff and employees of basic medicinal entities, which are budgetary units, do not have contracts concluded with the National Health Fund, as well as the State Sanitary Inspection. Thus, these costs are decremented on the Ministry's side and among others. is therefore one of the changes that it sets increases the funding limit for only one group, because the other groups do not require statutory changes. Thank you very much. [[Thank you. And Mr. Senator...]] I'm sorry, I forgot, I know... As I said before, all indicators for all professional groups are growing, from... It's 0,01 for those 3 groups that I said: doctors without specialization, primary workers other than medical professionals and nurses with higher education and specialization, i.e. an increase from 1.05 to 1.06. And the other groups. For doctors with a specialty he increases from 1.27 to 1.31 in a moment I will tell you what the salary is. For those without specialization from 1,17 to 1.2. There are big changes for lower staff. For pharmacists, physiotherapists and other medical professionals without specialization, the rate increases from 0.73 to 0.81. There is also a group of nurses and midwives without specialization or with a university degree or a master's degree and without specialization or specialization... no, the rate increases from 0.73 to 0.81. For nurses and midwives without specialization and without higher education and other medical staff without higher education, the rate increases from 0.64 to 0.73. In individual groups, i.e. for those who earn below the lowest wage... Because, of course, we have information that two groups make that kind of money. And for those two groups, those who are basic employees... These people will receive additional funds and this is about 500 PLN. For physiotherapists and other employees who have a secondary education, it will be approx. PLN 1 thousand 260, and for nurses with a higher education or specialization about PLN 570. When it comes to higher education... For pharmacists, physiotherapists, diagnostics, when a higher education is required, it is approx. PLN 1 thousand, and when it is a higher education and specialization, it is approx. PLN 1 thousand 400. As for the 2 groups which are financed entirely by the Ministry of Health, in the case of doctors of trainees it is 1 thousand 286 zł, doctors without specialization 1 thousand 179 zł, and doctors with specialization about 1 thousand 217 zł. These are the people who currently have a salary below the lowest salary in health care. And that's why it's a total of about 3.7 billion for six months, which is obviously times two. By the way, let me just say that we've counted... The effects of this proposal, which was presented at the Senate Committee on Health, cannot be accurately estimated, but assuming that all people will have a raise, this is an additional PLN 15.3 billion. And because we assumed that 50% should be paid and 50% should be paid for additional benefits, that's about 30 billion. But we know that not all employees would be included because we know that some workers earn more. Assuming it's only 70% doctors and, in the case of parts of groups, 80% , this gives about 12.5 billion zlotys additionally, i.e. about 25 billion a year. And, of course, we believe that such a change should be examined at the same time as the amendment of the budget law for this year. The point is to find half for this year, which is about 13 billion PLN. Alternatively, an increase of approximately 25%, i.e. from 9% to 11.5% ...the point is that at your request it should be processed at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u60	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have two more questions. The first is about the Senate amendments, because I'm not on the Health Committee. I understand that there have been specific proposals, but there have already been no sources of funding for these proposals. Were they? Here, please respond to the Minister. Second question And here I'm going to ask for a written reply. I would ask for information on how expenditure on health care has increased since 2008 and how wages have increased in health care. From 2008 to the current year, including the period after 1 July, i.e. after the entry into force of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u62	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u63	As far as the first question is concerned, it was to ensure that the Senate Committee on Health was provided, after examining the financial possibilities of the budget, that these were the means to be borne. I didn't see that change in the budget bill. I didn't see how... Probably from the judiciary, maybe from the defense department, maybe we'll have to shut down education. Well, it's for the Senate's decision, which of these industries is not needed in Poland. As regards expenditure on the health care system since 2008, the health insurance contributions, as we know, were raised in 2004 or 2005. Three times increased to 9%. Last growth was in 2008. And since then, there's been no increase in the health contribution. Only after I started working at the National Health Fund did the National Health Fund receive for the first time a grant aimed at over PLN 1 billion, thanks to which the over-executions of previous years and practically all the judicial cases which the National Health Fund had had, from earlier periods were eliminated once. And of course. I spoke about this at the session of the Sejm Committee on Health and the Senate Committee on Health Previously, before this law, which entered into 4 years ago, the minimum wage in health care was equal to the minimum wage in the economy, i.e. between PLN 1 000 and PLN 2 000 800 respectively, because in the last 5 years the minimum wage in the economy has increased significantly. So, in line with these records, which were earlier, the minimum wage for doctors, nurses and all health workers would be PLN 2 000 800, of course not necessarily in terms of basic salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u64	Thank you, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u65	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister spoke of an increase in the coefficients, only the data that the Minister provides here, to put it mildly, is imprecise. And that's why I'm gonna ask you a question. 'Cause if the Minister says that the first degree doctor rate is going to go from 1.17 to 1.2, that would mean the lowest salary in this group. And now it's 6,000 46 zlotys, it's going to be 6,000 201 zlotys after this increase. So it would seem that there is an increase of PLN 155. It's just that this country, as the Ministry, is reporting that according to your calculations, I would like to stress: your calculations In January 2020, this professional group already had basic salaries of PLN 6 000 783. Therefore, there will be no real increase. Hence my question: can you present precise data rather than data that are de facto misleading? I'm going to show you what it looks like for the other groups when it comes to what you're saying, and what really comes from an in-depth analysis of the data you're using. I'm going to show you this by example of the next group of doctors, the next group of nurses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u66	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u67	Thank you so much for these questions. As far as growth and indicators are concerned, we use the salaries that employees receive today. These salaries are very different. There are still wages today, as we say, below the minimum wage in force. For 4 years, the level of these salaries has been adjusted, i.e. every year there was an increase of 20% in the difference so that 31 December this year. each of these employees has already received this lowest remuneration. Therefore, in each professional group there are workers earning below the minimum wage that has been specified today. And after growth they will have to receive this salary on July 1st. As far as average remuneration is concerned, it is obviously higher. And in the case of doctors, and for certain professional groups, the average salary is higher than the lowest. And in some cases the average salary is really much lower. So some of the professional groups in the small part... Not all employees will get raises, because if someone is the manager of a healthcare provider, an operator or a doctor who does a lot of treatments, or is the head of a clinic, a branch nurse... Most likely these people earn below the lowest wage in health care and these people are not covered by this law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u68	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Here, the Minister answered the question. Although he said that he would answer them precisely because there is no data - about the number of nurses who are studying. The question was whether it only covered the first degree or the education. I have some data here, so I'd like to quote them. Namely, in terms of the number of graduates in nursing and obstetrics in the first degree, i.e. it can be said that these are the new staff that are coming, namely: in 2014 there were 7 thousand such graduates. 229, in 2015 8,000 697, in 2016 only 4,000 28, in 2017 4,000 386, in 2018 5,000 372. No data are available for 2019. In fact, in the last 3 years the number of graduates has increased, but it is far less than the number of graduates who graduated in 2014 and 2015. You were kind to say that at the moment you are studying whether or not you accepted it. I misunderstood it. More than 8,000, but the Minister was not able to say whether it was just first-degree studies or education. I would like to say that in 2018, as far as both grades are concerned, there were 8,000 900... actually 9,000. For a good cause of some great progress there is no, and there are certainly less of these graduates than there was. This is where we use the concept of "for previous governments," so I'll say it too. For the previous governments. The number of nurses in 2015 per 1,000 inhabitants was 5.1, in 2019 5.2. One can say that there is an increase that we should be satisfied with, only that the EU average is 9.4. If you increase the number of nurses at this rate, we will reach the current average in about 40 years. My question, Minister, is whether or not the government has a plan of speed, I understand that not from year to year, but in some meaningful perspective. To catch up with Europe, the European Union in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u70	Thank you. As far as the number of nurses is concerned, there are quite often interpellations of Members and Senators on this issue, so that we provide full information here. I can't give you the details right now. I would like to say, à speaking of catching up with Europe, that, of course, it also has an impact here... Europe's catch-up is a 25% reduction in the number of beds, the number of hospitals. This is Europe's catch-up. What you all expect is for health to be more effective, but not in hospital mode. We know that Europe has 25% Less hospital beds. In countries such as Sweden and Denmark, these numbers are three times lower with a non-condemned health system. Of course, we know that if you treat in outpatient mode, in day-to-day mode, you need more staff in spite of appearances, but clinical and economic efficiency is much higher. There's no such thing as inefficiencies of treatment... there's no need to be available, there's no need to be in a treatment facility, there's no need to stay in a hospital for people who don't need to be hospitalized. We're gonna be working to get the staff used better, because for the past six years... When I worked at the National Health Fund, we changed the financing of one-day benefits very much. We are going to limit the benefits in outpatient mode. All groups consider that and are right to move on to a more efficient system. The use of staff will be more effective and less effective in hospitals. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u71	Please, Senator, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u72	The Minister has avoided answering my question. He was talking about reducing the number of beds. Probably so, because, indeed, compared with the European Union, we have, surprisingly, more of these beds. But I asked about the nurses. From your statement, Minister, it was clear that in the European Union these nurses are inefficiently employed and may be expected to reduce their number. Well, I don't think that's true. Therefore, I understand that the government has no specific plan here. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that we will catch up with the European Union in 2030, in terms of GDP per head, with the EU average. It doesn't work out very well, but that's what he said. And in the case of nurses, I understand, there is no particular project. I have a second question. The Minister said that the six-month cost of all the increases that will be, together with the additions etc., is about 13 billion PLN. That's what I understand. You also said that a revision of the budget would be necessary. Right? Good. Since, in view of the amendments that were tabled at the committee's meeting, the issue of impact was not clearly identified, you were polite to say that perhaps spending on education, culture or the judiciary would have to be eliminated, etc. And I'd like to ask you something. How will the budget be revised This is about the amount of PLN 13 billion, and what will the funds be liquidated for? For education, culture, justice? Tell me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u73	Good. As far as the Polish Load is concerned, it is very specific that the medical staff is the basis for it. We are planning more resources here, which is because we want to increase the recruitment for training for medical personnel. Of course, this law is an incidental act. In view of the pandemic, some doctors and medical staff, including nurses outside the European Union, had to be adopted, but this is not the desired direction. We plan to increase spending and in the field of doctors, and in the field of nurses, increase the number of educated people. Of course, this is still quite difficult. We're trying to change that, but the problem is the number of places these people can learn. That's why we're looking for more medical schools to expand this offer. As I said, in the case of nurses, the effects are very spectacular, but in the case of doctors we have also increased the number of such universities. We are still wondering how we could increase the number of places in existing universities, as well as in new ones. As far as the second question is concerned, I have just said that if this amendment is adopted by the Senate Committee on Health, about 13 billion a year per salary, i.e. plus 50% as other measures The sources of funding will have to be found. Therefore, most likely the senate... the senators should propose what to finance, because it requires credibility. Please indicate which expenses are unnecessary in Poland. Thank you very much. [[I see. One more question, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u74	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u75	I'd like to agree on these numbers. The cost that the government has planned, the cost of all these raises, the cost in six months, is going to be...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u76	...3.7 billion for the NFZ and 300 million for the state budget, the Ministry of Health. Yes. [[So, together...]] That's a total of 4 billion. And the amendment adopted by the Senate committee means an additional PLN 6.2 billion a year, because we should also benefit from other benefits, as we have accepted in the trialogue... That's about 13 billion. I am therefore saying that we do not have enough money in the budget for this six-month period to finance this without amending the budget law. So I expect you to propose an amendment to the budget law, that you indicate from which sources to finance it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u77	Minister, but an amendment to the budget bill will, as I understand it, be necessary. 'Cause the 7 billion with the piece the government's proposing we get from somewhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u78	As for the 4 billion that are set out here, there will be no amendment to the budget law. It's secured. This 300 million has been included in the current budget law, in the expenditure of the Ministry of Health, in the extended expenditure on trainees' doctors. Nor is it necessary for the National Health Fund to amend the budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u79	Minister, after all, the National Bank of Poland has just transferred almost PLN 9 billion to the budget. Isn't that something you could use?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u80	According to... I don't know exactly what it's like, but you have... [[I see. Thank you very much.]] ...at your disposal... You have the possibility to... Like I said, 6.2 times. 2, that's over 12 billion. Well, it's up to you. I do not know if it is possible to make such an amendment to the budget law during this reading, but of course... [[Now I don't...]] Well, that's a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u81	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senators Borusewicz and Swedes. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alicia Chybick will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say, I was terrified to hear the whole discussion. Minister, you're an officer not on a properly sailing ship, but on a sinking titanic. After the pandemic, health care... Before the pandemic, she wasn't in good shape either. At the moment, we were hit by a tsunami of patients, victims of the fact that all health care was directed to combat the COVID pandemic. This bill, which we are currently discussing, is, of course, a very necessary act. The raises are needed, but not like this. A plan is needed that will not allow this titanic to sink and that will make the patient in Poland feel safe. If you ask the patients if they feel safe right now, you'll hear they don't. Patients are standing in huge queues, waiting too long, even for lifesaving benefits, medical personnel are practically on the brink of endurance... And from what you've said, it all works very well. The state co-financed the report 'Health status of Polish population and its determinants', so I think you read it thoroughly. What's in this report is scary. Poland is at best on the twenty-first... I don't have time for this book to be fat to discuss all these charts and tables now, but I have to say that we are the bottom. Europe, really. We have single achievements that put us high, but they are just single. In general, we are either the twenty-seventh or twenty-nineth, and at best the twenty-first in 30 European countries. Medical staff, as described, are those who, under separate rules, have the right to provide health services or are persons who have a professional qualification to provide health services in a particular field of medicine. These include doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, paramedics, pharmacists, lab diagnes and recliners. These are the most important professional groups in medicine, there is no health protection in health care without them. We are in the last places in terms of infrastructure in this area, but as far as medical staff are concerned, the situation is really dramatic at the moment. Those raises you offered... It is outrageous at all that someone working in healthcare can earn below the lowest wage. What is happening in Poland is completely paranoid. Doctors who are currently working in Germany... The rates that apply there are nothing to Polish rates. There the resident doctor earns from 5 000 600 to 5 000 900 euros gross, and the specialist From EUR 8 to EUR 10,000 gross. How do you want to keep doctors in Poland with the rates you offer? I work 46 years, I'm an academic teacher. Almost the entire student groups, which I had the pleasure of examining now, on Monday, say that they will leave Poland because there is no chance here to earn similarly, comparablely as in the Union. I gave the example of Germany, but many examples can be given. Yes, they will be different, but the scale itself is completely different. What are we even talking about here today... All these increases you are proposing, of course we support, because every penny is priceless to a health worker. I would like to emphasise the importance of the training of individual employees and therefore I am taking the floor in this discussion. We are going in Poland in terms of quality and all these ideas of bringing doctors from outside our country, with the transfer of responsibility for the patient to the youngest generation, which we are just going to learn... After all, experience, education or specializations are priceless. It's not like if someone has one specialty, they can cure anything. We should be going to make sure that this only quality doesn't happen. You'll see that the mortality rates we have right now, and they're very high, we've lost over 100,000 people. more than in the same period of the previous year... It certainly caused a pandemic, but it was also affected by what the nurses said yesterday at the Health Committee meeting that the average age in this profession was very high, and I can say the same about doctors. I was terrified that I didn't know that the average age for mortality among nurses was 62 years. These girls live short. What was said here... We work hard, we work hard for the kind of money the state offers... We're really fighting for human life. This is not a method, this titanic will sink even though giant measures are coming from the European Union. You can build a hospital here and there, but if there's no highly educated, good staff, it's not really gonna be worth anything. Doctors' unions wrote to me, as I already mentioned at the Health Committee meeting. Maybe I'll read what they wrote about this bill. The main objective is to increase the current labour ratios which determine the relationship between the minimum wage for each occupation and the average wage for the economy for the previous year. Generally, the increases in labour rates proposed in this project are far from the expectations of the medical community... Well, everyone, really, except maybe the gray staff, which is medical secretaries. And further: but he was particularly discriminated against by doctors. For a specialist doctor, a 3% increase in the rate is foreseen. From 1,27 to 1,31. In fact, this will be a 20% reduction. From 1.6 to 1.31. The 2018 Act introduced for doctors employed in hospitals an increase of the basic salary up to the amount of That's what we're talking about here today. 6,000 750. I believe that if you do not accept the increased coefficients proposed by the committee today in the case of virtually all medical groups It's what all the groups are asking for. This will mean that you do not want to see any improvement in health care. It is in your hands that we have our money, a Polish citizen. You just want to raise your health contributions, you say pay more. But that's not really gonna work out. This will be a very, very good test today. The budget covers a lot of things, and healthcare has never been such a real priority in this budget. You're turning this into a citizen, let the citizen pay more. Even here it just fell in this room that it would be 11.5% ... Why not 20%? I'm joking, of course. This is an outrage, this should be paid out of the state budget, not out of our pockets, because in the constitution we have recorded health as one of the most important things. And you'll have a test in a minute. We will support the amendments, and we will support the bill. You, too, support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators! As I am sure everyone in this Chamber will be voting in favour of the law establishing the lowest basic salary for staff employed in medicinal entities. I will vote not in favour of the law put forward by the government, but in favour of a law which I hope will leave the Senate after the amendments proposed by the Senate Health Commission. Why are these amendments so necessary? These amendments are needed because in Poland the average age of a nurse is 53 years. I'll say it again: 53 years. 10 years ago, in 2010, it was 45 years old. So during this short period, the average age of nurses increased by 8 years. Last year before the 2015 elections, this is the time for which you want to be especially responsible. The average age of nurses was 45 years... Sorry, 48 years old. That was in 2014. It was five years less than it is now. The average age of a midwife working in Poland today is 53 years. Ten years ago, it was 44 years. Yes, we're dealing with a dramatic situation. With such a dramatic situation, there will be no one to work in a moment. What's the situation with the doctors? I will quote a person who is an authority especially for one part of the hall, Mateusz Morawiecki: for 20 years at least 20,000 doctors have left Poland. Otherwise, I think that this data is inaccurate, according to the information I have. Nevertheless, what does this mean? That relatively poor Poland paid for the education of doctors for rich Sweden, rich Germany or rich France. I agree with that diagnosis. And what do you suggest we introduce generation replacements? What do you suggest that there should be more nurses, and in a special way that young nurses also want to come to the profession? And what do you suggest that doctors from Poland do not leave? Ladies and gentlemen, what we were talking about... You're proposing growth, that's good. But what? For a second-degree doctor. Not all of us are doctors. I also found out what a second degree doctor means. This is an experienced specialist doctor who has completed a six-year course, completed a year's postgraduate internship, then gained a specialization, taking 6- or 7-year postgraduate training and passing several exams, and has an average of about 20 years' work experience in such a position. What are you offering them? You offer them a staggering increase of PLN 19 gross. Because according to the law proposed by the government, with a minimum wage, the lowest wage from July 2021 will be PLN 6 000 769. This is about 19 zł gross, and I repeat that there is no doubt: about 19 zł gross more than today, because by July of this year, according to the Act of 6%, they have guaranteed a minimum wage of 6 thousand 750 zł, provided that they declare that they will not work additionally in another entity. Furthermore, according to your data, the Ministry of Health data, this salary is still higher. You send the following signal to 54,000 582 doctors with a second degree specialization... This is your data. You send the following signal: we value you, we want to stop you and therefore we offer you a dozen more zlotys. Dear Resort and Dear Government, is this really how you take care of staff in the Polish health service? And you think this is a proposal that's gonna lead us to deal with the problem of a shortage of medical personnel? It is in advance that we announce to you that such proposals without the Senate amendments that we have introduced will unfortunately not meet these expectations. I was just talking about doctors with first degree specialization. You were talking about a formal increase of PLN 155, but according to your data, this increase will not be in practice. This is the result of the data if you look at the remuneration that you give as the averages applicable in this professional group. But let's follow this lead. Can other groups of doctors or nurses expect a scale-appropriate financial proposal to make us, as patients, feel safe? Let's look at the next coefficients. For doctors without specialization, you propose to increase the ratio from 1.05 to 1.06. I wasn't wrong: you're proposing to increase the ratio from 1.05 to 1.06. This means an increase in salary of as staggering an amount as before - 52 PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, is this another proposal whose generosity is to turn medical staff around and lead to no problem with HR? What do you propose to doctors interns? Increase from 0.73 to 0.81. This means that the lowest wage from 1 July 2021 will be PLN 4 thousand 186; now it is PLN 3 thousand 772. It would seem to be an increase of PLN 414. But since the Ministry of Health did not present the level of wages in this group to the team in 2020, we do not even know if this is any real growth. You didn't have data to verify if what you're saying means growth or growth. Let us look at the next groups and proposals of the government in this regard. We were talking here about an important group of pharmacists, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics with a higher education and specialization. Their next proposal, which I understand, is to bring joy to patients who are convinced that after this stunning proposal no one from this group will leave Poland, and young people will get together to perform these professions. What does the government propose? Increase in coefficient from 1,05 to And here's another unpleasant surprise. 1 / 06 . This means that the lowest wage in the second half of 2021 will be PLN 5 000 478. Today it is 5 000 426 PLN, which is again rising by a staggering amount of 52 PLN gross. According to the calculations of the Ministry of Health itself, this professional group had a basic salary of PLN 3 000 422 in January 2020. We can of course present here further groups: pharmacists, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics with a higher education. Here's the growth. coefficient from 0,73 to 0,81. Let's move on to a very important group of nurses. For nurses who are Masters of Nursing and who are specialized, you also offer an increase from 1.05 to 1.06. This means an increase in the lowest wage in the second half of the year by PLN 52. I must say that I am fascinated by this amount of 52 PLN, because she seems to have some magical dimension in the work of the Ministry of Health. I think someone told you that proposing 52 zlotys is overcoming some psychological barrier. And then the white staff will come to the conclusion that this is such a generous proposal that there are really no difficulties, no obstacles, and even no proposals to leave for the staff of this staff that will flow... Well, no one's gonna benefit from these proposals with a $52 raise behind their heads. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you propose for nurses with a specialty or a master's degree or a bachelor's degree? Increase in coefficient from 0.73 to 0.81. I do not want to present any more groups, because here there is no significant deviation from these growths that I have presented, I would like to ask you for this, to convince you and to appeal to you. I assume that in a moment's time, the Senate will accept the proposal of the Health Committee in a responsible, unbreakable way. We try to improve this project not in our interest, and not even in the interest of only nurses, midwives, specialists or doctors at all, but in the interest of the Polish patient. And I have one request, a request for government representatives to re-examine the proposals they have prepared and to come to the only conclusion that can be drawn from this situation: the Senate amendments, which I hope will be adopted in a moment, are good amendments, these are amendments that will ensure a greater sense of security for Polish patients. And by the way, in a political sense, they give the government the opportunity to get out of this awkward situation. The government is proposing increases, but when you take a closer look at them, it turns out that in many cases these increases are only increases by name. We propose that they have a slightly more realistic dimension, bearing in mind that... I dedicate the NIK reports to the Minister and his colleagues, among others. such a report three years ago, which is a synthesis of the situation in health care. Former Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł, politician of Law and Justice, said that this is the most reliable document in the history of diagnosis of the state of Polish health service. I had the pleasure of announcing this document myself. One of the key elements of this diagnosis was the care of Polish medical staff. We can do something good together. As a Polish parliament, we can adopt a law with the help of the Polish government to ensure a real increase in the salaries of medical staff. It's about making us as patients feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The moment in which we are now is very important. In the history of health care But also in our resumes, in the resumes of health professionals Everything will be divided into what was before the pandemic and what was after the pandemic. There will be no longer talk of eight long years of someone's government or 30 years since the transformation. There will be a division before the epidemic and after the epidemic. There is a proverb that Poles do not like: a wise Pole after harm. Well, it's a shame, there's an epidemic. Now let's see if we're smart after this epidemic, if this proverb works. Mr. Minister seems to be taking a rather strange approach to health care problems. That's how trivial I'd put it. Saying that we can increase the amount of money if we eliminate the judiciary, that we can increase the amount of money if we eliminate the defense. Then why don't we eliminate health care? There'll be more money for other things. It's that kind of thinking, it's ridiculous. I don't know why you're dealing with real problems like that. And this is said by a representative of the Ministry of Health who should care about making sure that this money is as much as possible. The Minister presented us with an example of Denmark. Are we going to liquidate branches and hospitals in Poland so that we can have health care like in Denmark? Has the Minister been to the S.R. recently? Did you see what was going on in there? Do you know why this is happening and not otherwise? Okay, we can have the Danish system, but let's build it first. Let's build the kind of outpatient care we care about, equip it, commit to the right job, and then reduce the number of branches, and not so much, because it's not so... It's not as likely as it seems. We just have another health care system, which is based on hospitalization for now, and it's probably going to be, because the state doesn't move outpatient health care, you don't transform it in such a way that it can take over the responsibilities that we're talking about, and which maybe sometimes are unnecessarily performed in hospitals. Eliminating troops. Here, too, the Minister denies himself. The liquidation of branches is also the liquidation of specialized places, accreditation places, where doctors are educated. If we eliminate half the surgery, we can't train new surgeons in these outpatients. And the average age of surgeons is, like, 57 years. Where are we gonna train them? We're gonna train 20 surgeons in the 1st ward? What are they gonna see? What are they gonna do? How many shifts are there gonna be? This is a very complicated system. It is not possible to apply one measure as you would like, but a financial, economic measure. This is much harder. We are on the eve of the adoption of many health laws, you can say that the whole system is about to change. There were three meetings of the Health Committee yesterday, two of which were one after the other. At the first meeting of the Health Committee, Minister Gadomski said that he could not tell how many doctors there would be, how many nurses in the system in five years' time, and therefore he could not tell how he would transform, how much money would be needed, etc., this would be analysed. Today, seeing what is presented in this raises bill, we can suggest to Minister Gadomiski that there will be fewer of them, that there will be fewer nurses, fewer doctors. He may already show in his calculations that in five years there will be fewer doctors and fewer nurses. Well, I guess that's an indicator, 'cause maybe less money is gonna have to be spent or something. The rates offered by the Ministry are scandalous. I asked the Minister why it was 1.31. The Minister has actually avoided an answer. Why is this 0.1? Well, in 2017, this 6,000 750 PLN salary of a specialist doctor was established and this was 1.6 of the national average. Today we have to offer a coefficient. These 1,31, this 0.1 is taken from the fact that if there wasn't this 0.1, that would be a reduction in wages. That's where the 0.1 is. This 0.1 is probably related to the 19 zlotys that are supposed to be additional. Otherwise, as director of the hospital, I'd have to give a change notice, reducing my salary if this 0.1 hadn't slipped through. So that it wasn't a negotiation in a trialogue, it was just a calculation so that directors wouldn't have to lower their salaries. That's why it's 1.31. In this bill, the government proposes that nurses earn 0.73 of the national average. In a pandemic, after a pandemic, we cannot afford our country to pay the national average, the average, no more, 0.73 the average we pay. Well, it will be difficult to boast in other countries how much nurses earn in Poland. And the thing is, they're being punished by those nurses who are seniors who have graduated from nursing school and have no higher education, because even though they're doing the same job. what nurses freshly after a bachelor's degree are supposed to have a lower rate of. This is what the ministry has determined and it is a much lower rate, even a lot. Sixty-year-old women, 50-year-old women who have worked in these suits, including all the last months, are not supposed to earn even the national average, are supposed to earn 0.73 of the average. This is a thank you to them. You don't see administrative staff at all, you don't see service workers, that's what we're talking about. The thing is, the hospitals are supposed to work out a raise for them. And at the same time, we expect everything to work, so that the oxygen will be in time for the ventilators to be operational, so that the current in the hospital will work as best computer scientists, accountants, and reporting is very extensive. Well, where do you get the staff if there's no raises for him? And they won't be there. I have an appeal to the Minister, to the Government and to the Senators of Law and Justice: accept these amendments which are proposed by the committee. They're not that big. I myself have tabled an amendment on a greater increase, but I agree with the general consensus. If we're going to point out slightly smaller indicators, that's fine, but take it and take it as an investment in the future. Because if we don't offer these increases to our employees now, even though we're going to have to offer them a lot, a lot higher in a few years, so it's a very apparent economy. What the Minister said about how to get the money... He won't be wondering in three years, but he's gonna have to take them from somewhere and give them, and that's a lot more. I suggest we do this sooner, calm the mood, show that we care. It's really an investment, it's not spending money, throwing it away, it's an investment in people, in the system, in patients. If there was an epidemic in the current state of health care... If these factors were passed by the government and the epidemic broke out in five years, I promise you there would be no one left to treat, there would be no one left to enter these covid units, these nurses would no longer last 8 hours in these suits, because the number of female nurses would be so great that there would be no place to treat patients. Think about it. Because that's what this is all about. The solutions proposed are confrontational. They're confrontational towards doctors and nurses, mostly. Well, some of the staff groups actually get an increase in salaries. But in the direction of nurses and doctors, they're confrontational. I don't understand, I don't know why, but they are. I'll even risk the government going to war with nurses and doctors, that's what it looks like. And knowing the approach to certain matters and such an iron consequence, I can say that perhaps the government will win this war with the nurses and with the doctors. They're gonna lose the patients, they're gonna be the victims of this war. What's gonna happen? It will happen that in the public health system there will be fewer nurses and fewer doctors, they will flee to the private system, or they will travel abroad. But I expect a bigger escape to commercial health establishments where you can just make more money. [[Mr. Senator, it's time...]] Okay, I'm almost done. Ladies and gentlemen, since you are not afraid of patients and staff, why don't you show respect for President Jarosław Kaczyński, for your plans, for this New Deal. It's announced there's more nurses and more doctors. I think that's what the third sentence of the presentation of the New Deal said. So what, it wasn't consulted? Today I asked the Minister, the Minister said that it was not, indeed, that it was not consulted for the New Deal. So why don't you consult? If the party president says that your goal is to increase the number of staff members, then just increase it, increase these factors as well. And at the end of the day, one commendation. What's good? There's really a good thing about this bill. Indeed, some medical workers earn less than the lowest wage. And by doing so, they do not receive allowances that are rightfully due to them, because they are entering into such a kind of compensatory allowance to this lowest wage. This is pathology, and you're eliminating this pathology. And that's something to be praised for. But for the rest, unfortunately, no. And here's a red card that the nurses at my hospital gave me to hand it over to the Minister. Well, I'm not gonna hand it over, I'm not gonna do it, but I'm showing this red card. That's what it looks like, down there, in hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u87	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Dear Listeners! This is another sad moment for me, albeit joyful. This kind of schizophrenia accompanies me. 'Cause on the one hand, maybe... We fought a great fight in hospitals, along with our colleagues and nurses, doctors and saloons. And it would seem that the government would thank us, not only compensate us, motivate us financially to continue to fight... Because the fourth wave of pandemics is inexcusable, as experts say, epidemiologists, with such low prognosis. We need to be prepared for this. Because it's a big step. But this bill, this government proposal, is showing us how you want to continue sharing us. 'Cause that's when he's better at bossing us around. Just as you have divided the Polish people, so you want to divide the medics. But we won't, we're together, and I'm sure of it. This showed yesterday our Health Committee meeting, where all the medical professionals were in favour of working for our patients in public health, but the way you want to do it is quite perfidious. Ladies and gentlemen, you're not giving us anything, nothing. I want to remind you of some historical facts. In 2007, a white town in front of the Council of Ministers, a strike of nurses, midwives, doctors. Then there was a minimum raise. That's when the PiS government ruled. We've been finding out... Those were slogans: show the doctor what's in the garage. And I say, "Here's my car, and what's your bullet?" You did a very thorough financial analysis of Senator Kwiatkowski. And thank you very much. So I won't repeat it by appreciating your time. But this is 19 PLN gross according to the conversion figures of 2017, 6 thousand 750 PLN for the specialist. And this specialist is not a specialist of one specialty, as Senator Chybick spoke yesterday at the committee meeting. Sometimes we have four specialties. But we don't stand out for anybody, financially motivating such doctors. And what I'm trying to say is that specialists don't specialize in themselves. First of all, they specialize in patients. Secondly, they specialize in training young medical staff. Colleges aren't enough for medical training. The state in this law does nothing to make the labour market more attractive in health care. My previous speakers said: yes, increased recruitment for medical, nursing, medical studies. But then what? Can we afford as Poland to make a gift for Western European countries, so that doctors, nurses, doctors, physiotherapists went out there to live a decent life to educate their patients? We can't afford it. This bill will absolutely not cause us to want to stay here and work at the bedsides of our seriously ill patients, and in a pandemic day, it's not at all... Because, as my previous speakers said, disease, the analysis of deaths that are ahead of us, which will be devastating, which will show us what mistakes are going to be made. We've committed... And I'm sure the government's gonna blame it all on the medical staff. At first, you said, "These are our heroes." Then, they made money on pandemics... We will account for all this, why so many Poles died, although it was so good. To be honest, this is a way of appreciating and thanking doctors. I wouldn't take advantage of that raise if she was just propaganda so you could say on TV, that government television, the public. I don't know what she's like anymore. Because maybe that's where the money is to finance, Minister, those Senate amendments. I think we should all lean on them so that it doesn't happen, so to speak, messed up. Because here in the Upper House, we're constantly correcting the law to get the government out of this with its face. If the PiS senators do not support these amendments, it will defy the dignity of Polish health workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws increases to a small extent the labour ratios on the basis of which minimum remuneration amounts are fixed for particular groups of medical professions. According to the Act of 1 July of this year, a doctor who has obtained a second degree specialization or a title of specialist in a particular field of medicine will have the lowest salary of PLN 6 thousand 769. The government's proposed increase in labour ratio is 0.4. In practice, this means an increase of 19 PLN gross. And it is worth repeating: doctor with first degree of specialization An increase of 0.3, a doctor without specialization, an increase of 0.1, an intern doctor That's a factor increase of 0.04, which is four tenths. New working factors have also been identified for physiotherapists, pharmacists, laboratory diagnostics, nurses, midwives and primary workers. In their case, wage increases are even smaller. And so, for pharmacists, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics with higher education and specialisation, the lowest salary is PLN 5,000 478, an increase of 0.1. An employee with a higher education, but without specialization, will receive the lowest salary of PLN 4,000 186, an increase of 0.4. In the case of average education, the lowest salary will reach PLN 3 000 772, an increase of 0.9. In turn for nurses with a master's degree and specialization the lowest salary is 5 thousand 478 zł, an increase of 0.1, for nurses with a specialization of 4 thousand 186 zł, and this is an increase of 0.4, and the case of nurses without a specialist's degree is the lowest salary of 3000 772 zł, i.e. an increase of 0.9. As far as non-medical workers are concerned, the lowest salary is PLN 3 000 49, an increase of PLN 0.1 . Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the changes made in the novel have not come in favour of much of the medical community. That's not surprising. In most European countries, the salary of a specialist doctor is much higher than in Poland. To remind you that in our country this ratio is 1.31, for example. In Germany it is three times higher - 3.5 the average wage, in Hungary it is 2.5 and in the Czech Republic and Slovakia it is 2.4. Doctors receive an increase in the salary of PLN 19 gross for a specialist doctor or less than the average salary of an intern's salary as a huge humiliation and injustice, especially in the context of their sacrificial actions in the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. It is outrageous that, in an age of progressive 5% inflation, the government is proposing to the neglected health care service, its employees several- or dozen gold increases. I'll add: gross raises. A small variety of professional groups and qualification levels resulted in as many as 158,000 nurses with first-grade secondary and tertiary education for about 250 000 of all active nurses and midwives in the lowest group. So that I repeat more than 3/5 years: more than 3/5 years old nurses with upper secondary and upper secondary education in Poland in the 21st century are in the lowest paid group. Moreover, they have been completely ignored for almost years in the case of wage increases. Nurses and midwives point to the consequences of this policy. Their professions have been scarce, and there has been no generation replacement for years. She talked about it by presenting specific, shocking indicators, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. The facts are not only disturbing, they are tragic. While the government moved to a long-term policy to support these professions in 2019, these beautiful plans are completely out of practice. Nurses and midwives, not accepting government changes, in their concern for the future of their profession, but also to ensure the safety of health protection for us, citizens, have taken a strike. The strike, which I regret to state, was completely ignored by the rulers. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, too low rates also apply to professions such as laboratory diagnostics, paramedics, administrative, technical, economic, economic and service workers. It is completely incomprehensible why statutory regulations are abstracted from individual health professionals' responsibility, decision-making, psychophysical conditions and knowledge and practical experience. That's what Senator Alicia Chybick was talking about. Dear Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the social side of the Tripartite Group on Health Protection in the Social Dialogue Council has supported the wage net for 2021 only. I therefore call on the government to proceed immediately and draw up a new valuation of the tariff covering personnel costs and taking into account the inflation of salaries. If the prospect of increasing health workers' salaries is not clearly defined, this will result in the labour migration of health workers to other countries of the European Union. And the Polish patient? Polish patient will stand outside closed doors of clinic or hospital. In support of these words, I will give you the data from the report of the Supreme Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics. After leaving those currently employed and with pension rights, I will only add that there are nurses and midwives who are not even offered a national average salary by the government... Their retirement will cause 272 hospitals to repeat: 272 hospitals will remain without nurses and midwives. Is this what the New Deal proposed by the PiS is supposed to look like? Is this the future of Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Sometimes it seems to me that we forget what law we are discussing, and this is the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. And many of those statements that were here did not necessarily involve this law exactly. People speaking here are very intelligent, educated people who know what they are saying, but sometimes I am surprised by their short memory. Because even recently the retirement age of nurses was extended by 7 years, each woman was to retire at the age of 67, and the nurse at the age of 60 was a person who worked hard throughout her life and is often unable to perform all her duties. We also forget that politics was conducted in such a way that sometimes doctors and nurses were urged to represent Poland with dignity, to show their knowledge, their skills, but not with us, not in our country. In Poland, they were educated, qualified and then left for the West. Yes, they showed that medical staff are very well educated in Poland, but fewer doctors were working in Poland. Many of the Government's actions that have been implemented . i.e. the increase in the number of students Whether in nursing, or in medical departments, the staff has gradually increased, but we know that the period of study and the period of full training of a specialist doctor lasts not a year or two, but a dozen years, and that the recovery of health care needs to take a little while. Those stakes that are set here and we're debating... Yes, any health care professional who is always exposed to contact with a patient who is at risk of being infected with a disease, or simply his physical function at some point, will no longer allow him to work as much as he would like... Indeed, this worker will still be underpaid. But we're talking about a minimum amount. And employers, directors and CEOs are people who want to get medical personnel. They have the lowest amount given, but they can give much more. And that's what happens mostly in decent facilities. And as for the number of nurses that actually left... Many of them went to work in the West and work in various professions, often as carers for the elderly. And 3 years ago, in the nursing home in Olsztyn for the first time in history, there was a situation that all nurses who had completed their studies came forward to confirm their right to pursue their profession. That's all there is to it. In fact, there were those who worked in other professions for several years and later came to the conclusion that they could, however, work in this health service and can carry out themselves. I think, of course, we should vote for these rates for health care at every level. Whether it's a room service or a technical worker, these rates are fair and ensure that the health care profession is kept up to date. That is why I will vote in favour of this law and I propose that everyone vote in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Świlski, Komarnicki, Poor, Pęcherz, Godyla, Tyszkiewicz and Szejnfeld made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We're coming... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. We proceed to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law amending the law on investments in wind power plants. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. It is included in print No 366 and the committee's report . in print 366 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators! I would like to present a report to the Joint Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on the draft law amending the law on investment in wind power plants, contained in print No 366. The meeting of the 3 Joint Committees took place on 13 May. We made amendments at this meeting. 20 senators voted in favour of the amendments, no votes against and six senators abstained. On the other hand, a single draft amendment of the law was adopted by 25 votes in favour and 13 senators abstained. What is the essence of the proposed amendment? We all remember the amendment of the law on wind power plants, investments in wind power plants. This is the famous 2016 amendment, I say famous because it introduced a minimum distance of wind power plant from residential buildings and indicated forms of nature conservation. She said that this distance should be no less than that: no less. More than 10 times the height of the wind power plant calculated from the ground level to the highest point of the structure, including the rotor with the shovels. This is referred to as the so-called. criterion 10H. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of modern masts, this is in practice the distance from 1.5 km to 2 km, I will repeat once again: from 1.5 km to 2 km, because the largest turbines present today have just... i.e. their size is between 150 and 200 m. Think of it: what if the ban applies not only to the location of wind power plants in respect of housing, but also to the other way? It means that if there's a mast like this somewhere, then I can't build on the land that I own if this mast is less than 1.5. or 2 km and this is the actual limitation of ownership. It's so-called. two-way principle This applies not only to the distance of a wind power plant from a residential building or a building with a mixed function, but also to the distance of such a building from a wind power plant. This is apparent directly from the law which states that a residential building or a mixed-function building consisting of a residential function may be located and built within a distance of a wind power plant which is equal to or greater than 10 times the height of a wind power plant measured from the ground level to the highest point of the structure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a radical, unconstitutional restriction on property rights. We are dealing with an obvious legislative bubble. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the In this respect, our positions have been influenced. We also talked about them at the committee meeting, in particular the various organisations of local government. I can say that, at the committee meeting, he expressed his thanks for the project, among other things. Secretary of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, who suggested changing the criterion to criterion 5H. Moreover, these suggestions were two-way suggestions, i.e. not only in terms of housing but also in terms of energy infrastructure. I'll be right back. Ladies and gentlemen, what else has happened in the meantime since our committee meeting? At this point I will not even point out, remind you that the standard distance in the European Union is just 500 m, so it is in France, Greece, the Netherlands, Germany, from 400 m to 1,000 m is in Portugal and Italy. In many countries, the minimum distance in central legislation has not been fixed, and these powers have been transferred to local authorities, or these distances are determined in the context of a specific investment and the implementation of noise limit measurements. This is the case in the UK, Belgium, Finland, Norway and Sweden. It turned out that our draft amendment was de facto responding to government proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, on the pages of the Government's Legislative Centre, a proposal for an amendment to the distance law on wind energy, i.e. a project called wind power investments, commonly referred to as the Distance Act. And what, ladies and gentlemen, can we read in a government project that prepared the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, which, as it says, has developed a proposal to amend the infamous distance bill? In this project we can read that this proposal says that competences in this area, especially with regard to these power plants, as regards consent, will be transferred to local government authorities and that in the opinion of the Ministry itself this amendment is intended to contribute to unlocking the land-based wind energy sector in Poland by liberalising existing legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, when I went to the trouble and started reviewing various government documents, it turned out that our project fits perfectly into the government's revised priorities in this area. Because what did it turn out to be? Turns out, in government documents, we have a record that the amount of energy produced by windmills is going to increase. I will also remind you that this 10H standard, which currently sets a distance limit from buildings and, let us not forget, from the protected areas on which windmills can be built, in practice means that it is usually a distance between 1.5 and 2 km in the case of these modern windmills. According to experts, this means that, on the one hand, a very large group of villagers in Poland is limited in terms of property rights, in the context of the possibility of building houses, apartments, buildings on plots which they own, and on the other hand, there is no chance of an increase in the power of wind power plants in Poland, because it is difficult to find a place to establish such a power plant. What does the government propose in this regard? He says we're gonna change this state again this year. The competence of municipalities to construct a local spatial planning plan is to be extended. As a result, the local government will gain a very important competence, the competence to establish a different than statutory distance limit from residential buildings. And this is this radical change, someone would say maliciously: putting out a white flag by the government, in the context of the 2016 draft amendment, which the government has prepared, and today admits that it was wrong, thoughtless and wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we have in this government proposal? Firstly, the minimum distance laid down by law is to be 500 m, i.e. by means of legislative intervention 10H is to be changed in practice to 3,5H. We propose 5H, so it turns out that we are far less going than the government in the desire to change the bill, which he implemented himself a few years ago. Secondly, the law introduces what is obvious, i.e. carrying out prognostic tests on noise levels or conducting public consultations. But what is extremely important about this is the fact that, in fact, these changes, these solutions that we are proposing, whether in terms of building housing At the end, I'm going to talk about an important change that I'm proposing. In terms of windmill investments, as you can read, they are not new, but rather the adoption of similar regulations already in place in Western Europe. Liberalisation of the provisions of the Wind Power Plant Investment Act may lead to municipalities seeking an effective way to change their energy structure access to a mechanism enabling them to make significant changes in relatively little time. In the back of our heads we still have one fact, Ladies and gentlemen, namely that the increase in energy prices in the last year in Poland I am talking about the year 2020 in particular for individual customers, is the largest, I stress, the largest among the countries of the European Union. And today everyone knows that pretending that there's no such thing as Green Deal, that there's no such thing as paying for CO2 emissions, that's, that's the name of it, missing out on the reality of climate policy across the European Union. We must bear in mind that the development of windland energy is a direct result of the European Commission's policy and the recently announced new targets for reducing CO2 emissions by the Community. I would also like to remind you that the revision of the EU RED II Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources is already under discussion, as the objectives presented in 2018 are already different from the new declarations, with the amendment of the law to the current position of the European Commission. And there is no doubt that this must also be reflected in the setting of new targets in the context of renewable energy in Poland. The stronger use of green energy will, of course, be a challenge that we will also face in Poland, because these green trends set by the European Commission do not give Member States in practice any other opportunity than just supporting renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also remind you that the National Reconstruction Plan, which Poland has presented and which plan is to be the basis for the allocation of EUR 23 billion to Poland for energy transformation, is one of the higher amounts allocated for this purpose throughout the Union... What does this mean in practice? This means that the European Union says: dear Polish government, wake up, invest in renewable energy, because if not, we will have a problem. 3 May 2021 Poland has officially submitted a document to the European Commission. This project was consulted with EU bodies. And, interestingly enough, the European Commission has highly assessed Polish projects concerning the development of offshore wind energy. It can be said that they have been warmly accepted. But it should also be noted that the salt in the eye of the Polish energy transition, which in turn could threaten EU commitments, is the actual blocking of wind energy. Why am I saying all this? Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment I would not only like to ask the High Senate to adopt a bill which will enable Polish farmers to use their own property, but also to propose an amendment to ensure that the 5H principle does not apply in the context of the development of wind energy. So in practice, this energy thing... Going Ahead of Government's Expectations Because the government project is only on the RCL website and its inter-ministerial consultation has just begun And by showing good will for the Senate's cooperation with the government, I declare this amendment. The point is that this principle should not be two-way and that, in response to the expectations of the government and the statements of Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, we should also be able to unlock the development of wind energy on land as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing the Senator of the representative. I have the following question: did the committee also take into account such a factor in the case of wind power plants, which does not concern what is most often raised, and thus noise emissions, which are some nuisance... Are you listening to me, Senator? Let me repeat once again: has the committee taken into account, or has the analyses taken into account research or any expertise on not only the issue of noise nuisance, which emits this type of power plant and which may be burdensome for people living near the wind power plant, but also the issue of such flashing with propellers? The point is, on a sunny day these giant propellers they simply create rhythmic moments of shade and unveiling. This is a particularly painful case. I, in my district, have a place like Green, where, in fact, under the old regulations, before that law you mentioned, was built at a pretty close distance from the residential buildings of the entire wind farm. And the main factor that was raised is not even the noise, it's the flashing that just all the time, as it's light, all day long, as it's sunny, is a huge nuisance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u97	I answer this question: as senators of the joint committee, we have shown greater concern for the residents than the government, because the government says today that in practice we go from 10H to 3.5H, and we say no, 5H. That's why I think we're facing the Senator's concerns.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u98	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u99	That's another question. I mean, there's one more thing I'd like to know. I have also been raised in the district: still at a time when there were no regulations, but this matter, so to speak, returns... Namely, let's assume that someone owns the property on which the windmill stands. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. But he's got a neighborhood. In such a situation, the value of the neighbour's land may change due to the fact that it already has a limited use of the land. Has this issue also been examined? Shouldn't we think of some kind of compensation mechanism in the name of this, in order to avoid conflicts in the case of such investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u100	That's an interesting question. Indeed. Following the adoption of the 2016 Act, the Treasury is now subject to compensation obligations vis-à-vis municipalities, as the tax collection system has also been amended. In recent days, it has been said by government representatives that the financial consequences in terms of payment of compensation are estimated at 300 million a year, which the Treasury will have to pay to the local government. We didn't do this analysis, because of course we don't have the right methodical tooling. Let me just remind you that from our point of view the introduction of the 5H principle is in practice about 1 km in the case of new masts, when it comes to the possibility of investment, about the distance from buildings. This also causes, however, the concern of a significant decrease in the value of the property to be limited.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u102	One more question. This amendment, as I understand it... Let's assume that the wind power plant is 80 m high, that's rare, but for some reason it could happen • So in the case of a distance of 5H it would be 400 m. Wouldn't it be better to modify this government proposal that 5H, but not less than 500 m? The point is that there is no situation that wind power plants will, however, be located closer to human habitat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u103	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u104	I'm sorry, but I don't feel competent to talk about a government project in the sense that this change from 10H to 3.5H is going too far. Of course, in these procedures there is still a fuse associated with the decision of the local authority in the context of the plan. This question may need to be addressed to government representatives. As I said, we only change this rule by half, so we change from 10H to 5H.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u106	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna go over Senator Jackowski's earlier questions. Namely, when amending the law in 2016 The State Hygiene Plant in its opinions claimed that in order to talk about minimizing the impact of windmills on human health and life, this distance should be... i.e. an amendment is justified, which amended that this distance was approximately 10 lengths of buildings, i.e. about 2 km. Has the committee been familiar with any new opinions of the State Hygiene Facility? And in connection with the amendment that the government is also planning, have scientific research in this field and research of the Polish Hygiene Plant changed as an institution that cares about public health? Has anything changed in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u107	The Senate amendment comes out of the simplest, but at the same time probably the smartest rule, that the wisher doesn't get hurt. The original scope of the amendment says: you can build the property at a shorter distance on your own property, you decide. What's behind what the government says is that it's gonna go 10H to 3.5H? I'm assuming. At least I want to believe it, and I also worked in the government administration that it is supported by some new, relevant analyses. At the same time, I will repeat this once again, we are not going that far, looking at what the government is proposing, and in this amendment that I have tabled, I am being more cautious because I am proposing to change this rule by half.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. In the explanatory memorandum we find the wording that these changes are proposed I'm talking about the original changes, i.e. about those which are in print No 366 S, due to numerous speeches by representatives of local governments. Could you tell the senator which local authorities have made such changes? I am not talking about institutions or roof representations, but about specific local authorities. Which self-governments are interfering with these regulations in their current form? And then there's the second line. In the initial work... Because I'm also a member of the Legislative Committee. In the initial work on the text of this bill, the draft novels, its authors assumed that there would be some sort of symmetry here, i.e. that it will be possible to go down to this border 5H not only at the initiative of the resident who wants to build his property at a distance of less than 10H, but also at the initiative of the investor, the power plant. Then, after some critical voices, including mine, it was decided that it was supposed to be asymmetrical, which is possible only In accordance with the principle that the wisher is not harmed At the initiative of the resident. We allow housing, additional buildings, at less than 10H distance from existing power plants, but we do not allow... There is no change in the issue of the initiative of investors, power plants. And now I see that with a shot at the tape It's a lot to change so that nothing changes. We're back to the original project. What is the reason why you are proposing to return to the original project, which is to introduce the principle that, at the initiative of investors, windmills can be built at a distance of less than 10H?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u110	I answer the second question: wanting to help the government. The government has already declared that it is leaving the 10H rule that it wants to go down to 3.5H. I'm being more cautious in this amendment. But I absolutely share the government's position as regards the need to unlock the development of wind energy and the risks of it not developing today in practice, as the data show. As for the municipalities, I will repeat once again that in a special way it was claimed by the municipalities grouped in the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland. That is why the secretary of the union, Mr Leszek Świętalski, presented such a proposal on behalf of these municipalities. Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u111	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u112	And do you have the names of the municipalities, specific writings from these municipalities? I already told you, it's not about roofing organizations, it's about the kind of ones that the municipalities are bothered by these regulations. Because you're using an opinion about communities, not relationships. That's why I'd ask you to... if you don't have that kind of knowledge, please tell me you don't have it, not cover yourself up. [[Voice from the room: Just one...]] Just one... Don't say much, all of it, all of it, just... [[Mr. Senator, let me answer that.]] Give me one.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u113	I'll answer again. There was one of the grooms in the courtroom. I'm sorry, I don't remember which one, but you were at the committee meeting, so maybe you'll remember. I have no doubt about it. Because that's how local government organisations operate, that the representatives of the statutory bodies of these organizations speak on behalf of the associated municipalities. In Poland, I apologize if I make a mistake. Nearly 2 000 rural communities. I have no doubt that the Registrar presented this opinion on the basis of consultations with the municipalities. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but I have to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u114	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u115	I see no communication here, I think that's all... I hope that's it. Simple question: do you know the name of at least one such community? Can you present to the High House which commune was opposed to the current rules? Well, if you don't, please make it clear that you don't. And if so, we'd like to hear it here. We're not talking about roof organizations, we're talking about the names of the communes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u116	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u117	Mr. Marshal, I'll say it again. A representative representing rural communities said on behalf of these municipalities that he was asking for a revision of the 2016 Act, and thanked the Senate for the legislative initiative in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u118	Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry, but it's not gonna be a question, it's information about the municipalities that made such, say, requests. I made a statement on March 25 concerning the municipality of Nowe Skalmierzyce and there outlined the problem. I got an answer from the Minister. There are many such municipalities there are Nowe Skalmierzyce. You can also tell Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u120	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u121	Mr. Marshal, in the same convention, I will answer to Senator Czerwinski. Municipality of Żary, Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u122	Thank you very much. No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Robert Tomanek. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology is actually carrying out work related to the amendment of the law and has become familiar with the Senate project. I also heard a proposal from the Senator for an auto-correction. We estimate that this is a move in the right direction. Over the years, technology is changing, new research on wind turbines is emerging, social attitudes are changing and concerns about the development of wind energy are reduced. This is therefore a step in the right direction. However, I would like to say that the work carried out by the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology concerns a comprehensive approach to the construction and location of wind installations. First of all, I want to clarify that this is not about replacing the 10H rule with the 500 m rule. We assume that the general rule of 10H as a certain determinant will remain, but we take into account that in particular situations related to terrain or spatial development, this distance may be reduced. As a minimum limit, based on research, the experience of other countries, we set here 500 m. In order for such a change to take place, it must be included in the local spatial development plan, and it must also be preceded by environmental decisions. There is no automation here, there is putting the case into the hands of specialists and local authorities to keep the decision there. The draft law regulates more issues, also issues related to servicing and evaluation of the technical condition of windmills. These are complex devices. They appear to be something simple, but they are high constructions, working buildings. There is always a risk that there may be some technical malfunction, which is why the law introduces a record of certification of service work. Certificates will be verified by the Technical Supervision Authority. The Energy Regulatory Office will also be involved. We estimate that as a result of the amendment we have prepared, the power of the wind power plant will increase very strongly. This is in line with the actions we are taking in connection with the extension of the scope of RES. I would also like to give you some information on the work calendar that is currently underway, because I think this is important from the point of view of the legislative initiative that the High Senate is working on. Well, the bill's consultation ended on June 3rd. She was prepared on April 16th, and on May 4, she was hung on the pages of the Government Legislation Center. At the moment, we are analyzing the comments submitted to the project by 30 June. The project will then be submitted to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, which will take place by the end of July. We assume that the Sejm should come to Parliament by August 31st. We also assume, taking into account the next steps and leaving time for the President to decide that the bill will be published by 30 November this year. Vacatio legis, which may be of interest to your senators, is 30 days. The provisions of the 10H rule law would enter into force by the end of the year. Vacatio legis, with regard to certain technical supervision obligations, is of course longer and is 6 months old. And now the conclusion. We are very pleased with the senate initiative. We believe that this is a step in the right direction, but we also believe that the government's proposal is more comprehensive, goes further and gives greater freedom. It does not introduce a rigid rule, 5H, 3H or 10H, but gives you the ability to move in trajectories from 10H to 500 m depending on local circumstances. The question of whether to make such a decision remains to be resolved by the High House. In my opinion and in my assessment of the Ministry, there is a risk of some legislative chaos. There will be a revision of the present law, followed by another amendment of the law, which may cause confusion and uncertainty among those who are responsible for the location of these investments and carry out these investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. Minister, please return to the podium. I think it's the most comfortable thing to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about the deadline for the legislative work that you are currently conducting. When can we expect the finals of this work and a comprehensive project to be proposed?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u126	As I mentioned, the project has already been completed. At the moment, the consultation is over and we are working on the proposals that have come to us. We assume that by the end of June the project will go to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and that it should appear in Parliament by the end of August. As for the decisions of the Senate and the Sejm, or actually the Sejm and the Senate, we assume that the Sejm could adopt the bill by 30 September, and then there would be a possible adoption of the Act by the High Senate. The bill would be passed to the President by 31 October and published by 30 November. It would be a matter of not putting heads of state... not giving short deadlines here. [[Would the Act enter into force on January 1st or this year?]] January 1st.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question, actually, two questions that have something to do with each other. In this House, we have recently passed a law that has, in a sense, irritated the system and allowed investment in wind power plants, but at sea. It was such an interesting setup. At this point, it is a question to you as a representative of the government: will we go both ways at the same time, i.e. Are we going to make it easier to put wind power plants on land, or are we going to retreat from one direction? It may also be so, it is possible that we will try to develop both forms because of European requirements. That's the first line. Second line. Who provides us with wind power technology? I'm talking about the country, where we import it from. It's not like we've developed it ourselves from the beginning, imported it. Why technology for offshore wind power stations and offshore wind power stations? Maybe they're not that different, so it could be that it's the same source. And now the question is, who will the Minister think will be the investor? Is he... In particular, who can be an investor when it comes to wind power plants both at sea and on land? After this group of questions, I put the question quite basic. The 10H distance was included in the bill not by accident. It was an uproar of social protests. These protests were sometimes expressed in a very harsh way, so I would describe it. It was generally the case that the inhabitants protested both against investors and against municipalities which allowed these investments in one way or another. Why are we opening the same path? It's a simple question. Isn't the development of a power plant at sea enough? Why are we going into the same river twice? All the more so since this law in the first version actually talked about the willingness of people who want to build, let's call it that, after the change, it actually comes out to investors. And briefly. What's it like? Are you behind this project or are you against it? I'm not talking about the direction, I'm talking about the text that, after the auto-correction, is proposed to us. For or against? There's no other way, it's dualistic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u129	As for the bill that the government is proposing, of course I am in favour. As regards the Senate initiative, because it would be included in the government's proposal and would be much less extensive than what the government is proposing, and at the same time there would be a very short time perspective between the entry of both No, it's a senate project, I don't dare suggest. However, I would suggest that we consider the situation and refrain from adopting this proposed law. As for the questions that the senator was willing to ask, I will also answer very briefly. Offshor technologies, i.e. offshore farms, especially in the Baltic, are very promising, they have great hopes, and they do not conflict with wind power plants. Offshore requires more serious technology, it's more expensive, but it gives more opportunities. You asked the senator where the technology came from. Today, a very large proportion of RES-related production comes from countries other than Poland. Poland strives to participate in value chains and government, specifically the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology conducts practically round-the-clock discussions with diplomats of various countries, during which we point out that Poland must participate in value chains or in value networks related to renewable energy. We also try to help in the activities we take, for example. in industrial policy, such preparation and exploitation of Polish potential e.g. the steel industry, so that our industry can participate in the development of RES. As far as wind power plants are concerned, they are equally needed. There's, like I said, a lower cost, a much smaller distance when it comes to energy supply. In addition, many industrial companies would also like to develop renewable energy for their own needs in order to reduce production costs. That's why I wouldn't consider it an alternative, both. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u130	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u131	Because one of the questions wasn't answered. What about social protests? Why are we going into the same river twice?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u132	Government proposal because I understand that it concerns her question to me As I said, it assumes maintaining the 10H rule with the possibility of reducing the distance to 500 m, but subject to changes in the local spatial planning. This issue is a matter of local authorities. If there is agreement on a given area, there is consensus, then there is no problem. We are aware of these fears which are, and of the protests, but on the other hand, many years have passed, windmills have ceased to be ephemerals, windmills are reality and it seems that these protests will have a different and probably smaller range.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u134	Thank you. I'll have some questions for the Minister. First of all, I'd like the Minister to be precise... [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] I'm sorry. I have a few questions for the Minister. I ask for precise information based on a comparison of the cost of building a similar investment on land and at sea, which is the cost, by agreement, of placing a similar windmill in both of these places. I ask for data on the development of wind energy in Poland after the entry into force of the 2016 Act. How many such investments have been created since then? And one more question. Doesn't the Minister see a significant difference between the Senate project and the government project, that we have a clear principle? Because there is such concern that this procedure, which you are proposing, including an element which is in some way discretionary, of course based on the regional research of the Directorate for Environmental Protection, will raise concerns that the decision-making process in this area is a decision-making process. also government administration. On the one hand, you talk about self-government, but on the other hand you introduce an element that is a discretionary element, although assigned to government administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u135	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u136	Thank you. As far as the first and second questions are concerned, I will give a precise answer in writing because I do not have these data at the moment. I can only say that in the case of offshore it is at least a few dozen more percent. As far as precise data on wind power installations are concerned, I do not have these data at the moment, but we will provide answers. As for the third question that Mr Senator asked, let me repeat that we in the Ministry appreciate the step that has been taken by the High House, we believe that this is a step in the right direction, but we assume that what we are proposing is not discretion, it is merely to enable local authorities to move away from the 10H principle, which is flexibility. Because the question arises whether the introduction of the 5H principle as a principle, let's assume a two-way one, because I understand that this self-correction is sustained, will not generate additional concerns and protests. Let's note that depending on the location... Well, I'm not an engineer, but let's just assume that a windmill like this is gonna stand on a big hill. But then the fears of those who want to build themselves there may be much greater. In short, are we not going to repeat what happened in 2016 with such a rigid assumption? Then it was 10H, now it's 5H. That's the question that makes me doubt whether to introduce the 5H rule. I have much more confidence in the wisdom of local authorities who prepare spatial planning, because they know their territory better, their conditions, energy lines, infrastructure, the mood of the inhabitants. Hence the proposal of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u137	Thank you. [[Excuse me...]] Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u138	I don't think the Minister understood my question. This amendment does not interfere with the powers of the local government to adopt local spatial planning plans as a basis for the location of investments in this area. Moreover, prior to 2016, the decision of the local government in this area was also made. Another thing is the irregularities that occurred at the time, as I also pointed out myself, but these were irregularities concerning rather the personal links between the investor and That's what I'm going to call it. The local authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u139	Yeah, but if you're introducing 5H... I didn't suggest that she was interfering with the powers of the local government, but I asked if we would tie our hands to local governments by introducing 5H. Because if there is a windmill at a distance of 6H, it will not be possible to refuse for this reason to include this investment in the development plan. It's such a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, by the way, about this subject, which we are discussing: whether the government-designed law addresses the positive issue of the disposal of propellers remaining after wind power plants. Because that's the problem. They're highly ecologically harmful. Then they're buried or... I've got the proper documentation on this case. Is there an idea for a system solution? Because in view of the amount of equipment from these power plants, which are in Poland, as well as in connection with modernizations, changes, renovations and the creation of new power plants, this is a problem which is not a marginal problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u142	There's no record of that in the bill. The issue of disposal of various types of... well, I don't mean to say that after-industrial waste, but this type of equipment is regulated by separate regulations. Work is still underway in the Ministry to build a comprehensive system of circular economy, but this law does not address these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u143	Senator Marek Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you if you have any new research that would be contrary to the research of the National Institute of Public Health. The State Hygiene Plant, which speaks of a distance of 2 and 4 km between the windmill and the residential building. If you do, we'd like to see them. If you don't, I don't know where you're from... where in the bill it's 3.5H for windmills. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u145	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u146	Mr. Senator, I, of course, do not have such research at the moment, but I have information prepared by the department leading the case where they refer to research carried out in Western Europe. But, of course, we're going to do a research query on the right literature, and we're going to pass on the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u147	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, if I could... then I'd ask the Minister to send me these tests.]] We will note that the Minister has committed himself to a written reply. [[Me too.]] [[I'll have one too.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, as I understand it, also expects a written reply. Yes? [[That's because it causes conflicts in the electoral district, conflicts in connection with power plants.]] Does the Minister undertake to reply in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u148	Yes, there will be a written answer. Maybe I'll hand it over to the marshal because I'm here... [[Mr. Marshal, that's exactly what I'd like you to do... it's just that these data, these materials, they came before the bill was passed.]] Okay, Mr. Senator. It's understandable... [[Voice from the gym: Government.]] [[Government, yes.]] ...because anyway, those questions would come back. So I'm committed to this, this data will be provided.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u149	Thank you. Thank you very much. It's been, as I understand it... [[I still have a formal motion.]] Please, Senator Kwiatkowski with a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u150	I request that the committees be appointed a deadline for preparing an additional report after the amendment has been tabled in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u151	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u152	I object to this conclusion, because then what we asked for here, me and others. Mr. Senator Martynowski, it will be impossible. If we're gonna get the results of this research before we pass the bill, then... [[But, Senator...]] Well, it's hard to expect the Minister to get it within one or two hours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u153	Mr. Senator, I'm the only one who understands... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, government, government...]] But this motion, against your objection... This motion by Senator Kwiatkowski will be considered. - and possible discussion, I presume, ended by a vote. Not until I close the discussion on this matter, Senator. So now Senator Kwiatkowski simply submitted a formal proposal, and a possible debate on it and a vote will take place on another item on the agenda. And for the third time, I am asking Senator Magdalena Kochan for a question. You're welcome, Senator, and I apologize for waiting so long.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u154	It's okay. For the sake of clarification, before I ask a question, information for Senator Czerwinski, and I think it is also information for the Minister. Well, one of the largest plants producing propellers for windmills, for wind power plants, operates in Goleniów, in Goleniów Industrial Park, giving there employment to a really large group of people. And a second piece of information. The company, which could give employment to many people in Szczecin, was to produce towers for offshore wind power plants. If the Minister remembers And that's my question. Please tell me when this company has declared its bankruptcy due to the failure of the PiS government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u155	Thank you very much for asking the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u156	I don't have any information about it, and I don't have that memory, I don't remember that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u157	Thank you very much. You're welcome... There are now no senators, as I understand them, who want to ask a question. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This subject, which it seemed should not raise any deeper discussion, raised a whole wave of questions, because the issue is important. On the one hand, we are faced with the need to develop RES, i.e. renewable electricity sources... [[Voice from the Energy Room.]] ...renewable energy sources and, on the other hand, we must also weigh the social interest, in such a general sense, in terms of providing energy to citizens and those who need it, but also in terms of financial and material mechanisms. Well, I'm addressing Senator Kwiatkowski here. I am the senator of the Ciechanov land. In the period prior to the introduction of this 2016 law, I had 6 main points of fire associated with the setting up of wind power plants, which caused very serious social conflicts. There were, of course, much more such outbreaks in Poland, and for this reason in 2016 the parliament agreed... no, it established this law, to which the proposal made by Senator Kwiatkowski refers. I would like to draw attention to those issues that I raised in my questions. Well, during the meetings I had with residents who felt somehow affected by the installations of these power plants, the issue of a twofold flickering effect was raised. Because it wasn't even about the noise that these rotors cause, which may be cumbersome, but, let's say, in a closed space, maybe it's not so audible in the building. Maybe in the summertime, when the windows are open, when you're in the air more, that's the kind of thing that might come up... I stress all the time that we are talking mainly about rural areas, because in general in the rural environment these installations are installed, because in cities it is difficult to invest this type of investment, unless there are very large undeveloped areas. So the first thing is the flashing effect, which is caused by the reflection of light from moving wings, which causes the formation of short flashes that can be observed from different places around the wind farm. And here we have to say that the equipment manufacturers have come up with a bit of a need to solve this problem. Namely, these new rotors are usually covered with special paint, which suppresses this effect, minimizes the possibility of creating these flashes. But there's another effect. This is the result of the flickering of the shadow, i.e. the shading of the areas surrounding the wind power plant through the power plant tower and the moving propeller. The rotating blades of the rotor wind turbine cast a shadow on the surrounding areas, causing the so-called. the flickering effect, sometimes called an unfair stroboscopic effect. The effect of shadow flickering occurs mainly in short periods of the day, in the morning and in the afternoon. It depends on the degree of inclination of the sun. When the sun shines low in the sky from behind the turbine, the shadows cast by the rotor shovels are strongly elongated. The effect is particularly noticeable during the winter period, when the angle of sunlight is relatively small. Of course, there are various studies on how this affects those who live near these wind farms. It's generally accepted in literature. At least in the one I've been getting acquainted with. That the shadow flickering effect can be more burdensome and harmful than the flashing effect. And that's why I agree with Senator Czerwinski, and that's why I joined the motion to get these materials. I would not want social conflicts related to those issues that have been raised here to be overcome by the solutions being dealt with. And the second problem, which I also asked about, which in my deep conviction was not systematically solved in Poland. It is an extremely difficult issue to locate something that may be considered burdensome by neighbors or surroundings. This applies not only to wind power plants, but also to farms producing meat, henhouses, big pigsty or, for example, telecommunication towers, cell towers. That usually causes... I do not say that this is always the case, but the location of such projects usually has a significant impact on the value of the properties surrounding them. And that, too, is one of the sources of social conflict. While people would sometimes be willing to accept some of the side effects of such installations, the decline in the value of their property or the limitation of the possibility of using these properties because of such installations is already a matter that arouses very great emotions. I draw attention to this problem because Senator Kwiatkowski said it was an interesting issue, but it was not raised by the committee. I think we need to have a serious debate on this. If there were mechanisms that would somehow absorb the effects of such situations, it would undoubtedly be better. Let me give you a classic example. Someone signs a contract with a mobile phone operator, puts a tower at their disposal, and within a radius of 100 or 150 m. So let's say that these are the areas that can be used for construction. The value of all real estate is falling. The profit, of course, is the one who signed the contract. As you know, this kind of deal... The same is true of wind power plants. These aren't occasional contracts for a short time. These are long-term contracts. The termination of such an agreement involves very specific civil and financial consequences, and in practice this is very difficult. I am signaling this problem because, in the case of each of the laws that concern these areas, this subject will appear. Finally, I would like to ask Senator Kwiatkowski to withdraw this request for the next reading. I share Senator Czerwinski's view. It would be good if we had this material from the Minister, because it would enable us to read the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I understand it's not in the debate, it's in the formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u160	Yes, a formal conclusion. After Senator Jackowski's speech, who has convinced me, I withdraw my motion to allow the third reading of the project to take place at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czerwiński, I understand, withdraws his objection to this. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u162	Yes, of course it is, because it's already unobtrusive.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u163	Of course. Thank you kindly, sir. Please take the floor in Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u164	Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for your voice. I would not have taken the floor in this debate if it hadn't been for Question Time and the thesis that appeared in it, directly or less directly, concerning... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...one that's pulled out of context... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but there's some interference on the phones and a large part of your speech is not heard in the sitting room. Is there anything we can do about this trouble that, well, prevents...]] I'm gonna try the off-line video. Maybe it'll be easier... Mr. Chairman, can you hear me better now? [[Definitely.]] I wouldn't have spoken if it wasn't for Question Time and some answers that came out in this tour. I do not consider this bill to be out of context. It seems to me that there have been so many mistakes in environmental policy or rather ungreen government in the last five years that initiatives are needed that are going to go against what we have seen in recent years. I'll split my speech into three short segments. The first one will be about wind energy. I will remind here the year 2016 and the closure of the system so-called. green certificates. This closure of the green certificate system was valid for two whole years. New auctions started in 2018. With effect from 2020 With theoretically ambitious plans, from which there was not much. That's one thing. Secondly, we must draw attention to the direction in which the whole of Europe is going in terms of security, not only energy security but security, which is understood very widely. We already have more than 15% use of wind energy in Europe. These large countries, large, or strong, such as Denmark, Ireland, Germany, the United Kingdom and France, are definitely leading. We didn't even get 10% after we opened the green certificate system. I would like to draw this attention to the fact that the government programme, the one that was the reason for stopping the green certificates system, would lead to the creation of large, huge wind power plants located at sea. I will ignore the fact that at the moment these offshore wind power plants represent around 20% in Europe, because 80% It's land-based... I do not want to undermine the government's ambition to locate them in the Baltic area, but I would like to make it clear that the former local governments, which were prepared for investment, had partners, and in 2016 were de facto blocked in these initiatives. And another thread. Poland is currently in dispute with the various European institutions in the context of a widely understood ecology in practically every area. This was the case with the Białowieża Forest, this is the case at the moment in Turow, so unfortunately it was also due to the break-up of certain contracts and certain agreements which were prepared in 2014 and 2015. I do not wish to prejudice the details of the decisions which are contained in the draft law presented by Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski at the moment, but I would like to point out that in environmental projects time, consistency, continuity, accountability and predictability are important. And no environmental project will be implemented effectively unless it is implemented in agreement with local authorities. And to finally build this third segment, I'm going to say that we have a big problem with education as well. What we've grown in the past is not just groups of people who are against wi-fi stations, mobile phone stations. The group of anti-vaccines, anti-radarists, etc., etc. has also increased. We must ensure that in the field of environmental education we also take into account the modern level of civilization development and knowledge resulting from all these elements, which will give us the chance that in ecology Poland will be at the forefront and not at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, who will take the floor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I hope you can hear me. I will begin by referring to Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's statement. I agree entirely, there is a need for environmental education in Poland. But, Mr. Senator, it is worse because Poles are very often misled by the government, the current government, which deals with complete misinformation in the area of the widely understood ecology, and energy generation, renewable energy sources. Specially. Indeed, in 2016, we had a specific attack on renewable energy sources. In Poland, the rules on the possibility of building wind farms on land were amended. And this is seen in all graphs, between 2016 and 2019 or 2020 you can see stagnation in terms of the presence of new power installed in Poland. And since last year we have de facto once again boom. But this is mainly due to the fact that the prices of electricity produced from renewable sources, from wind, are already lower than those from conventional sources produced from coal. And this is, I think, one of the reasons why the current government should support all renewable energy, wind-based energy in Poland. Because there will be no turning back from this climate and energy policy. In the EU, the prices of greenhouse gas emission allowances will only increase, and they have a huge, colossal effect on the price of electricity in Poland. And let me remind you that she is already the highest in the European Union in Poland today. So... We are not discussing today a law that will enable the construction of wind farms on land. Today we are discussing a bill that will allow citizens to build their own homes closer to wind turbines. And I'm a little confused about the resistance that comes along. After all, those who actually live close to such installations want to do so... With me there were inhabitants of such a village lying between Koszalin and Kolobrzeg, called this village Tymienie. The wind farm was created there as one of the first wind farms in Poland. And they say that, first of all, they don't mind these installations, second of all, they want to be able to build houses closer and ask for a change of those rules. They even talked about not having this indicator 5H, as proposed in the bill, or even less, 3H, or 3 average wind turbine heights. But I don't even bring it up anymore. All I'm saying is that this project goes in the direction of those who actually deal with installations, farms, wind farms in Poland. And there will be no escape. I want to say it clearly. It's from the RES. And all those who still yearn for coal give Poles high prices of energetic energy, heat energy and cold. Because, of course, the world, the civilized world, will go away from coal. And finally, a sentence about the value of the property. Senator Jackowski was talking about it. These installations are produced on agricultural land. And only because there are changes in the spatial planning... And let me remind you that in order to build a windmill, a wind farm that produces electricity, this type of plan needs to be changed, it has to be written directly in the spatial planning plan. And this is a very complicated procedure, because it requires prior environmental decisions, there are public consultations, arrangements with all the neighbours concerned. At the end of this procedure, the value of the property on which these farms are located only increases. This does not adversely affect agricultural production. Therefore, this does not reduce the price of agricultural land. And today's records, in which distance is maintained, have absolutely no impact on lowering the value of built-up land. Let me repeat: those who live close to us do not protest and know that these farms are just as needed as other installations, pillars, lines which are sent by energy, roads, etc. They know that this is part of the development of civilization. And that's the last sentence. All those who question the construction of wind farms, I would like to ask whether it is better for them to see a smoking chimney from which dust, pollution, greenhouse gas are emitted, whether the wind or photovoltaic system is better. 'Cause there are protests today, too... And I think the answer is obvious. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I will quote a small exception from the opinion of the National Institute of Public Health of the 2014 State Hygiene Plant. It seems that the distance to ensure both the meeting of noise standards and the minimizing of the potential nuisance associated with it, and the minimal impact of electromagnetic field emissions and shadow flickering effects for residents in the wind farm area, is not less than 2 and 4 kilometres (depending on the terrain and weather conditions). Well, maybe something's changed when it comes to research. We'd like to know that before we vote on this bill. If it has changed in favour of the quote, of course, in favour of this bill, we will be able to reflect. If not, then the question is why enter the same river again. Do we want to raise any protests, mostly in the countryside? Because the protests are not those who build these power plants, not investors protest, but maybe local authorities, but mainly those near which these windmills are to be located. They're interested here, too. How do we defend their interests? Do they have to go out and block again? Someone's gonna say, "The government's going the same way." Well, no, the government... [[Voice from the room: No, the government goes on.]] Yeah, he's moving on, but he's going the other way. First, research, what is the impact, what is the impact on health, and then the possibility of building. That doesn't even prejudice, this research doesn't prejudice. And here it's categorically: we're shrinking, just like that. Until now, the power plant's impact was up to 10H windmill, and now, behind the touch of a magic wand, it's going to be 5H. This decreased by two times. Arealy, it's even more like four times at least. The question is simple: why this bill? Someone said here, perhaps Senator Kwiatkowski, that this is what representatives of local governments want. I asked you to read the names of these local governments. I'm guessing there were two names... [[Voice from the room: Interesting...]] Maybe there's more. But once again: local authorities are one of the stakeholders, there are still residents of those local authorities who are close to such power plants and may fall within the scope of the influence of this law. In fact, at the beginning, not even in print No 366, but even earlier, when the Legislative Commission dealt with this problem, it was a bilateral possibility, i.e. that both on the initiative of the resident who wants to build closer to the windmill than within 10H and on the initiative of an investor who wants to build less than 10H... I do not hide that I was also against such a policy at the time, and, to put it simply, I was accusing the paralobbic actions, because otherwise it cannot be defined. If we have brought the text of the bill only to the possibility of meeting the expectations of the residents I'm not talking about local governments, I'm talking about residents who wanted their investments, let's say housing, their habitats located at a distance of less than 10H. Such expectations can be understood, because then possible adverse factors affect the person who simply made such a request. If he is well informed and agrees to, let's call it yes, smaller gold, it is her right, and the State has a duty to give such a right, to enable such an investment to be made. Well, to get back to it at the request of an investor who wants to put up a power plant, a windmill at a distance less than the accepted 10 H, could have made such an investment, that is, a return to the initial thought. And again, we may be dealing with protests. And don't confuse these 2 billings, because from what the Minister says, this law, which is proposed by the government, aims to move flexibly from this rigid distance of 10 H, and in the case of this bill, it is simply a change of the protected area to which such a power plant could affect. What should we do? In my opinion, wait for a new possible examination. By the way, there are other infrasound factors not included here, etc. Is it for comprehensive research results... And above all, we should rely on a government proposal, i.e. if already, it's flexible, depending on a lot of factors. The climate, the formation of the terrain, even the plant cover, which is on a given area... Any consent should be made conditional on this. Once again: those on which this law will directly affect the version with the self-correction, i.e. when it comes back to the original version, saying that an investor of a power plant will be able to plant a windmill less than 10 H, but more than 5 H, there is no one here to defend if we do not. It's just that. And that is why we should primarily address them as the weakest group of these stakeholders. And these, I'm sorry, fairy tales for the broken about RES issues, etc... Well, that's why we're going out into the sea to get those possible windmills that need to rise from the mainland. Theoretically, because in practice, hopefully, this is not going to happen. I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. So we don't have to locate them in our country's land territory. It's simple and obvious: if we can meet any requirements artificially imposed upon us, according to a certain ideology, a new religion that is being formulated in the West at the moment... Yes, we must fulfill it. But if we have to, let's do it where we're comfortable. This may be more expensive, but this will protect the health and life of our citizens, those who are the weakest who cannot protest, or may be forced to protest. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the debate of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u170	Ladies and gentlemen! For many years I have functioned as a public official and I always want to believe that the government administration is acting in a wise and thoughtful way, not that these are fairy tales for the broken, as my previous speaker said just now. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote Mr Przemysław Hofman, Vice-Director of the Department of Low-Emission Economy at the Ministry of Development, a statement from last year. The director said this: 500 m will also be a new minimum building distance from the wind turbine. And then, as Hofman emphasized, 500 m is Okay, look out! The average distance from the wind turbine from which the existing standards are met by scientific studies. In that case, either the government has some information. And let me remind you that in our proposal we do not go as far as the government proposes. Or they're fairy tales for the broken. But Senator Czerwiński should be directing these words to his own government, not trying to create such a picture here that it's some kind of bad business. Let me repeat: the officials of your government say 500 m, and we say we do not go this far, we propose 5H, or 1,000 m. Why? Because such regulations are And, as I understand it, these countries are known to care for the interests of the inhabitants. In Greece, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Portugal... well, there's even less, from 400 to 1,000 m. In those countries that I mentioned, that's 500 meters. It's very important to me here... I am directing this request to the Ministry: I also ask for research from other European Union countries. Because all of a sudden it turns out that Principal Hofman, to tell you, he couldn't, he lost the research he had, saying that 500 meters would be enough... so I'm asking you to analyze what it's like in other countries as well. We must be careful not to give in to such temptation that someone comes out to this speaker and says: you are proposing some regulation in the interest of some closer unknown lobby. I am asking: in the interest of what lobby does someone in this room say that we should not introduce this regulation? Maybe in the interest of a lobby that wants to build windmills at sea or not build them at all? It is clear that all investments must take into account the social interest. But if someone is speaking, planning, promoting or blocking any economic investment, then we need to be sure what interests he represents in this room. Because if not the interests supported by scientific research, and this is the result of the statements of government representatives and from the experiences of other countries, then let the question hang in this Chamber: what interests does he really try to promote?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more votes in the discussion. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I now declare a five-minute recess... [[Voice from the room: Who else to report...]] Excuse me, I'll read the list of senators who have made their speeches to the protocol. These are senators: Aleksander Szwed, Ryszard Światkowski, Janusz Pęcherz, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Benjamin Godyla, Mariusz Gromko, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Józef Łyczak and Wadim Tyszkiewicz. They're senators who've made speeches to protocol. The discussion is closed. And I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 05 to 16 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats. We begin to consider the third item on the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers about the Polish government's actions on the situation in Belarus, including repression of the Polish minority. I welcome the guests present at the meeting: Mrs Olga Kowalkowa, Mr Paweł Latushka and Mrs Jana Szostak, who will be watching our deliberations. [[Applause]] Darahija Siabry, sardine vitayem! I could say these words in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, welcoming our Belarusian sisters and brothers in the Belarusian language, in a language which is the native language of citizens also of the Republic of Poland, which is a very close language for us, a language which our fellow citizens also speak. We are honored to welcome you to the Senate today and to give you, I believe, a message from the Polish senators on behalf of everyone present in this Chamber. ! regardless of their party membership That we are today with Belarusian freedom, we are on the side of Belarusian democracy. In addition, I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Marcin Addicz. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u172	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, Dear Representatives of the Belarusian Civil Society! I am very pleased to be able to present today at the Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland, on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers, information about the government's actions on Belarus, including in the context of repression against the Polish minority. Forgive me at the outset a little bit, but it is a subject that has long absorbed considerable resources of government administration, and due to the very high activity of Poland and the Polish government, both internationally and as part of national actions, we have in this area many very concrete achievements, which I will try to give you in detail. Belarus has grown to the main challenge of Polish Eastern policy since August last year. The crisis caused by the fraudulent elections and the repression of the regime against civil society has significantly changed the situation beyond our eastern border, adversely affected the security of the entire region and forced the Euro-Atlantic community to take decisive action. From the very beginning Poland has been the leader of these actions not only through the actions of the Polish government, but also through the involvement of the entire political class, including representatives of parliament, as well as, in the reflexes of the heart and in expressions of solidarity, of the entire Polish society. I myself have also spoken with the senators in this House many times, for example on the occasion of work on declarations concerning the political situation in the Republic of Belarus, but also on many other occasions, also in the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I take this opportunity to thank all of you, almost a year after the fraudulent presidential elections, bloodyly ripped from the hands of the Belarusian people by Aleksandra Lukashenka, for your interest in our neighbour's affairs, for the personal and shared commitment in this House to the Belarusian democratic opposition. Although I personally believe that sometimes there are too many attempts to include Belarusian issues in current political issues, e.g. when the leaders of the Belarusian opposition are invited to party events. Still, I think we can afford consensus. This political consensus will allow for further political and financial commitment to defend fundamental values and civil rights. I hope that such an agreement, despite several turns and tensions, will continue, and that the political consensus on Eastern policy will not fall victim to internal political discourses in support of the Belarusian democratic opposition. This would be to the great detriment of both the effectiveness of our actions and the position of Poland on the international stage. Dear Senators, I would like to stress at first that what has not changed in Poland's policy on Belarus since the breakthrough in 1989 is 2 basic objectives. The first is to promote the sovereign, independent and democratic state of Belarus. Poland has never stopped supporting the emancipation process of our eastern neighbour. The second is broad support for free media and civil society, whose aspirations for democratisation of political life and systemic transformation were a determinant of the actions being carried out. We have always carried out these activities internationally, as well as through national instruments and actions. What changed in the previous year in 2020 is the methods that we achieve these goals. As I said, the political crisis in Belarus is a fierce cezure in the country's relations with the community of democratic states. Due to the proximity of geographical, cultural, historical Poland took the initiative among the international community in terms of shaping immediate reactions, as well as developing concrete decisions at a later stage. Several times Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki or Minister Zbigniew Rau presented information on the activities carried out by Poland and the scale of political and civil engagement for the democratic opposition. So let me focus on presenting only key actions, sloganing all the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Poland to internationalise the problem of breaking the fundamental values and principles of the democratic rule of law in our eastern neighbour. As regards international activities, we all remember that within the European Union it was thanks to the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland already on 14 August, a meeting of the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs took place a few days after the fraudulent elections, which resulted in a common position agreed by the 27 countries of the European Union. On 19 August 2020, a special European Council on Belarus was convened on the initiative of Prime Minister Morawiecki, followed by a review of the European Union's current policy towards the country. As a result, one month later, at a record rate for the institutions of the European Community, the next extraordinary meeting of the European Council approved a two-track policy towards Belarus, which on the one hand was to put political pressure on the Belarusian authorities by introducing sanctions in order to get the regime in Minsk to stop breaking human rights, to dialogue with civil society, to start the reform process, on the other hand, and On presenting a positive alternative to Belarusian society in the form of comprehensive economic support at a time when Belarus will embark on the path of democracy. On sanctions, i.e. on the first point, I will say that in 2020 88 representatives of the authorities in Minsk were sanctioned, led by Aleksandr Lukashenka, who was seconded. But there are also seven companies on the list of sanctions, seven companies that we are sure are also financially supporting the repression apparatus and supporting the regime. In drawing up these letters, Poland worked in a strict coalition of countries with knowledge and ability to prepare specific evidence packages. It was thanks to Poland that the consensus was built at the level of 27 countries, the whole of the European Union. Intensive work is currently underway to ensure that in the coming days, i.e. until the June meeting of the Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, this list has been extended almost twice. In addition, in response to the unprecedented stop of Ryanair and the illegal arrest of Raman Pratasiewicz, the European Union immediately, also thanks to Poland, banned flights for Belarusian aircraft over the territory of the European Union and led to an extension of this to the ban on flights of EU aircraft over the territory of Belarus. Poland has played a key role in this matter, both within the European Union and within organisations such as ICAO and the European Aviation Safety Agency, without delay proposing that this event be covered by an international investigation and starting close cooperation with partners from the countries most affected by this event. Lithuania, because Raman Pratasiewicz lived and operated on its territory, and Ireland, where the company, the airline operator, came from. Due to the fact that the aircraft is registered in Poland, the day after the event we offered the Lithuanian authorities full cooperation and proposed the creation of a joint investigation team that will allow for the maximum internationalisation of the investigation. On the kidnapping of Ryanair, talks took place within a few days at the level of presidents, prime ministers, foreign ministers and air transport ministers. Poland was asked by many European and transatlantic partners to lead, at an extraordinary meeting of ICAO international air traffic organisations, a coalition of states which gave strong resistance to the attempts to sweep under the carpet this unprecedented breach by the Aleksandra Lukashenka regime not only of international air traffic conventions but also of basic standards aimed at air traffic safety. These actions have triggered, also in the international forum, for the first time since 2013, a discussion on the introduction of more serious point economic sanctions, as we are about to discuss. On the other hand, we have a positive economic plan. Poland appeared in this topic as a leader. It's 9/11. Prime Minister Morawiecki presented the idea of adopting an economic support plan for Belarus at the meeting of the Prime Ministers of the Visegrad Group. This plan was first accepted by the Visegrad Group, the V4 countries, and as a joint Visegrad initiative was presented within the European Union. Thanks to its effective lobbying, it was approved by all 27 countries at the European Council I mentioned in October 2020 and its final shape was developed by the European Commission. On the basis of the aggregates developed by experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and transferred last autumn to Brussels. The economic plan of the European Union for the democratic European Union, I stress: democratic Belarus was invented and initially prepared by Poland. It provides for support of EUR 3 billion. What can these measures be used for when Belarus embarks on reform? Firstly, to rebuild the Belarusian economy. Let us remember that the crisis caused by the fraudulent elections is also rooted in the worsening economic and social situation in Belarus. The plan is intended to be a significant financial injection in order to improve the stability of the macroeconomic situation in Belarus and to put the economy on the path of more sustainable development. To this end, EU Belarus High Level Investment Forum will be organised. The idea is to show European investors the opportunity to invest in Belarus. EU High Level Donor Meeting will also be organised so that Belarus will have the chance to obtain additional grants necessary for the economic transformation of the country. Of course, we also modeled on the Polish transformation from the beginning of the 1990s. The second element of this programme is the implementation of a transitional package to support structural reforms and competitiveness. It is about economic governance and private sector development, justice reform, human capital development, increasing transparency and credibility of the Belarusian administration. Thirdly, the plan includes a reconstruction project for a country based on green and digital modernisation and the launch of support programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that these changes are also felt by ordinary Belarusians. I stress that the plan was initiated by Poland and finally prepared by the European Commission. This is the plan of the European Union as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this plan has a dual function. It is not just a specific economic offer. The prime minister's primary objective, when he took the initiative, was to send a concrete signal of solidarity by the European Union to all civil society in the Republic of Belarus. It's about showing people who will definitely feel the negative effects of this stricter policy of the Western world's sanctions, the civilized world. That ordinary people are not the purpose of these actions. The sanctions imposed by the United States, Great Britain, Canada or the European Union are of course intended to induce the regime to start a political dialogue with its own citizens, which will lead to peaceful transformation. A positive offer to support the process of dialogue and transformation is intended to show that there is an alternative to strengthening political, economic and social relations with the Russian Federation. We want the Belarusians to feel that support for Western democracy is not empty slogans, that as soon as they make a joint decision to start the process of democratisation of the state, we will not leave them in this difficult work alone. We also wanted to support the mandate of the Belarusian democratic opposition in exile with this package. Therefore, Belarusian experts have been involved by the European Commission in the development of detailed solutions to this plan. But this plan is also a signal for the constructive part of the Belarusian political establishment. The third point, apart from the sanctions and the economic plan, is the mechanism for bringing people responsible for repression to account. To these two main elements of our action towards Belarus in the international arena, let us remind you: political pressure on the regime in Minsk and a positive offer to civil society and democratic opposition In March 2021, there was a third, no less important element: documenting human rights violations in Belarus, so that people responsible for them are judged fairly. First steps in this direction We have already started last year by launching 17 September 2020 together with 16 other OSCE countries. Moscow mechanism to investigate the electoral process and human rights violations. As a result of this mechanism, Prof. Benedek's report included, among others, recommendations on the need to establish an international body to gather evidence of human rights violations in Belarus. In response to this appeal, Poland has taken steps to implement these recommendations also within the United Nations. This is on our initiative, supported by the European Union as a whole, in March 2021. The UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution establishing an international mechanism to ensure that human rights violations in Belarus are investigated in the context of the presidential elections in order to hold those responsible. The new mechanism will operate within the High Commissioner's office The United Nations for Human Rights. Its tasks are to monitor the human rights situation in Belarus and to investigate closely the violations that have occurred since May 2020. It is also intended to enable the gathering and analysis of information and evidence to contribute to the accountability and justice of victims. In parallel, Poland has been involved in support of NGOs documenting these violations and in the creation of a specific NGO coalition, which will be able to support the activities of official factors. It was Poland that was among the 19 countries that set up the so-called UN mechanism in parallel. International Accountability Platform for Belarus. Its aim is to monitor the respect of human rights in Belarus and to gather evidence of its violations by state institutions, including for subsequent trials before Belarusian or international courts, so that those responsible for these acts have legal consequences. This platform, the NGO-Sow platform, focuses in particular on torture and other cruel and inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment, including sexual violence, but also deals with the disappearance of political opponents or out-of-court executions in Belarus. The platform will consist of Belarusian and international non-governmental organisations specialised in the field of human rights protection, and we have entrusted the role of coordinator to the Danish organisation Dignity. The platform is designed to sort of fill the gap between setting up a mechanism within the UN and getting it fully operational. Poland also declared a financial contribution to the budget of EUR 30 000. So much for the international dimension. With regard to the national dimension, internal action, including, and even above all, the government has taken a number of immediate measures to provide maximum rapid and effective support to the citizens of Belarus affected and threatened by Belarusian services. First of all, it's an emergency aid. Then, in August, in September, after the outbreak of the crisis, Poland immediately provided legal, medical and psychological support to those affected by the brutal reaction of the authorities. In 2020, almost 1 000 500 people were supported in the framework of actions to support those repressed by this individual support. The beneficiaries received psychological support, advice on legalization of stays or finding work in Poland, help in translating documents into Polish, support in finding housing, support in learning Polish at remote courses. More than 500 people received benefits, and almost 200 people took part in the so-called. tournaments funded by the budget of the Polish state. These actions are, of course, also continued this year if necessary. Secondly, it's visa facilitation. We have significantly facilitated the issuance of visas to the citizens of Belarus. Since the outbreak of the crisis to this day, Poland has issued almost 125 000 visas to Belarus, including nearly 10 000 humanitarian visas. In response to the unprecedented pressure on our consulates, which has affected the radical reduction of diplomatic personnel Let us remind you that the Republic of Belarus immediately invited more than 2/3 of Polish diplomats accredited in the territory of Belarus, we introduced innovative solutions as MFA in order to avoid a reduction in the number of visas issued. First of all, we have changed the rules on the criteria for issuing humanitarian visas, accelerated and simplified the procedure and extended the powers for those to whom this visa is issued. In addition, in response to the unprecedented challenges for the Polish consular system of throwing out our consuls, we have carried out a reform which will result in the opening of the visa centre in Poland, outside the borders of the accreditation countries. This will allow for more efficient and faster issuing of visas when the decision of Aleksandra Łukaszenka Polish consulates in Belarus was practically paralyzed. This change required the passage of an accelerated legislative path in the Polish Parliament. I now take the opportunity to thank Polish parliamentarians and the President of the Republic for this commitment and constructive cooperation. In terms of making it easier to work, many citizens of Belarus came to us from day to day, without planning their visit to Poland, they had to de facto flee from the Republic of Belarus and we make it easier for Belarusians to work in Poland. All visitors who have received the humanitarian visas mentioned above shall be entitled to take part in a commercial activity. In addition, more than 3,000 people have benefited from the Polish programme. Business Harbour, a programme aimed at temporarily supporting IT employees who decide to transfer their activities to Poland. Let us remember that Aleksandra Lukashenka's regime temporarily cut off access to the Internet, and therefore the IT sector was severely affected. Hi, these people were looking for support and received this support from the Republic of Poland. The Parliament of the Republic of Poland has simplified the recognition of medical education for citizens outside the European Union. Of course, the citizens of Belarus also benefit from this possibility. Since December almost 1 thousand medical professionals have applied to Polish language courses or Polish medical language courses, which can help them find a job. These courses also take place thanks to the support of the Polish budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that aid to all entrepreneurs and professionals is of course temporary and will continue until the end of the political crisis in Belarus. Our aim is not to deprive Belarus of educated workers, but merely to offer them support and opportunities to stay in this extremely difficult period for Belarus. Come on. The programme was announced by the Prime Minister, a plan of 50 million PLN for Solidarity with Belarus. This money was used to support those who were repressed, to finance the Scholarship Programme. Wincenty Konstanty Kalinowski, from which we made an additional offer of 1,000 scholarships. We have made it easier to enter Poland and access the labour market. We were also helping independent media. Support is addressed to independent editors and publishers in Belarus. On the one hand, it is of course Belsat TV, funded to a large extent by the Polish State, and on the other hand it is also other editorial offices, for example With this money we also financed the program for NGOs, including the functioning of the Belarusian House and real estate which the Belarusian House received in the center of Warsaw. This property is to be a place of work and functioning of independent Belarus environments. I've mentioned my support for the students. E.g. Thanks to these measures from the plan, Solidarity with Belarus was possible unprecedented commitment to support students from Belarus who could not continue to study in their own country for political reasons. A scholarship program with students has been launched. It is implemented in cooperation between NAWA and KRASP. In 2020 it enabled more than 800 Belarusian citizens to study at more than 70 Polish universities. And I take this opportunity again to thank the rectors of Polish universities, who responded unprecedentedly to the appeal of the Polish government and to a record degree got involved, accepting hundreds of Belarusian students after the beginning of the academic year. Without this great cooperation, hundreds of young people fleeing repression would probably have broken their resumes. Not only did they find a marina in Poland, but they could continue their education and as smoothly as possible enter a new environment at this difficult time for them. The care provided by Polish universities, often in cooperation with local government, is also an investment in the future elites of Belarus, which will surely bear fruit someday. Scholarship program im. Kalinowski conducted by the Eastern European Studies of the University of Warsaw. Almost 700 people were enrolled, most of whom were assigned to Polish courses prior to the study. 42 people have been admitted for a year's scholarship. Because let's remember that repression has affected not only students, but also the scientific staff. As part of the postgraduate studies of the Eastern University of Warsaw, 30 people began their education. The aid under Kalinowski's programme was primarily directed to persons who had one of the following circumstances: they were arrested or arrested, beaten, tortured, released from work, subjected to economic or psychological pressure to continue learning or working in Belarus. It is also the Free University of Belarus, a pilot project implemented through the Eastern Europe University in cooperation with representatives of Belarusian independent environments, whose aim is to create a platform for remote education for Belarusians. Substantive and technical work has been started, including among others. related to the development of training courses modules. In this context, I would also like to quote the words of Minister Dworczyk, who assured that, regardless of the places in the currently ongoing scholarship programmes, every Belarusian repressed student who wishes to continue his studies in Poland will receive a place at the Polish university. High Izbo, Dear Senators, also requires parallel support from local governments. Of course, it would not be possible to list all initiatives, you yourselves often participate in your own electoral districts. I would like to thank you for your work in the field of a number of local initiatives complementing the government's efforts, which make our offer more complete and allow us to reach an even wider range of Belarusians affected by the regime. The next item is support for independent media. In conclusion, I would like to mention, of course, projects of an information nature, which may be an extended list. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs handed over additional Belsat TV: additional PLN 16 million for activity in 2020. Equipment was purchased for several media organizations. Unfortunately, I will not be able to share detailed information here because of the sensitivity of the case, but I will say that it was supported by financial assistance from dozens of Belarusian journalists. In addition to carrying out activities aimed at civil society, Poland also supports Belarusian political emigration environments, a large part of which has found refuge in Poland. Some of them are at our meeting tonight. This applies to both the Coordinating Council, the environments focused around the Cichanouska Light in Vilnius, as well as the National Crisis Management and Minister Latushka in Warsaw. We believe that these environments should be fully integrated into democratic transitions in Belarus From the repetition of fraudulent presidential elections, through unfettered participation in the socio-political life of Belarus to the impact on possible and discussed constitutional reform. However, you will allow me not to go into further details in this forum because of the delicate nature of this support and the security of our partners. Dear Senators, the actions of the Polish state, the Polish central institutions are obviously not carried out in a vacuum. It's not because of someone's political whim or the cold calculations of analysts. All these initiatives, which I am trying to describe to you, are also due to a certain moral imperative and a sense of solidarity between Poles and Belarusians. They were Poles, also the voters of political parties represented in this Chamber, who expected their representatives from their own government to defend fundamental values and civil liberties. Poles do not indifferently go through harm, especially when it affects our neighbours, and often also relatives from the nearest neighborhood. We feel a moral duty to express our opposition in the fundamental impulse of solidarity when the neighbor is hurt by a violent apparatus that clings to power. We strongly believe that the actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the actions of the government of the Republic of Poland, but also parts of the state of parliamentarians result not from cold calculations, but from our national need for solidarity. I believe this effort will not be in vain. Poles will remain with the Belarusians, helping them and comfort, and the state, despite objectively existing political differences, will maintain consensus in the most important for the Polish policy of the Eastern cause. All of these activities are permanent tasks. We continue them, adapt them to changing conditions, respond to the needs of the beneficiaries. If necessary, we will develop new instruments or increase funding for actions already under way. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we pay a great price for this high activity. We are faced with the enormous wave of repression that Alexander Lukashenka is giving to the Belarusian people. The Polish minority also suffers. Last in my speech, the most difficult, certainly the saddest topic I would like to raise today, is the actions of the Belarusian authorities towards the representatives of the Polish minority. Unfortunately, since the beginning of the crisis, the Belarusian authorities have not been prepared to admit that it was caused by fraudulent presidential elections, preceded by some kind of outburst of social dissatisfaction from the situation in Belarus. Instead of complying with the expectations of its own citizens and the appeals of the international community, Alexander Lukashenka chose the basic solution from the textbook for dictators, i.e. creating an external enemy. Unfortunately, this enemy without any rational basis made Poland to a large extent, which made a spiral of hostile actions. First, there was a demand to dismiss the Polish ambassador for consultations and to reduce the Polish diplomatic presence of 50 diplomats working in Belarus only 18 years later, then there were escalations, accusations under a lying and absurd pretext of spreading Nazism, ethnic hatred, finally focusing the attack on representatives of the Polish minority and those involved in cultivating the Polish tradition, culture and language. In this context, of course, it is also impossible not to mention the shameful decision of 7 June establishing the new so-called. holiday in Belarus on 17 September. Unfortunately, it is difficult to call it different from unreflective propaganda from the Soviet Union and lying to the common history of Poles and Belarusians, who suffered to a great extent from Stalin's oppressors. The culmination of these hostile actions was a direct attack on the leaders of the Polish Union in Belarus. In March, the president of the union, Mrs Andżelika Borys, and activists of the Polish Union in Belarus, editor Andrzej Poczobut, director of Irena Biernacka, head of the ZPB branch in Lida, Maria Tiszkowska, head of the union in Wołkowysk were arrested. Previously, Ms Anna Paniszewa, director of the Polish school in Brest, was arrested and the family of the State of Pisalniki was forced to flee Belarus. Of course, she received shelter in Poland. The Belarusian service has charged Polish activists with criminal charges from the article on the spread of hostility against ethnic and national backgrounds. They concern alleged mass events, commemorating, as the Belarusian authorities indicate, members of the anti-Soviet band. In this way it is called fighting the Soviet enslavement of the soldiers of the National Army and the Poak underground. Searches began at the homes of activists and ZPB headquarters. The absurdity of these accusations, of course, He could have a smile of pity if it weren't for the sanctions that specific people are threatening. In this way, careers and the lost achievements of people whose only crime is cultivating their own culture, Polishness, shaping conscious citizens and strengthening the multicultural and open identity of Belarus are broken. Alexander Lukashenka made the Polish minority a scapegoat, and he also found political hostages, hoping to change the attitude of the European Union. The Polish authorities, including the President of the Republic, the President of the Council of Ministers, Parliament, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, took immediate action to release the arrested and stop the wave of repression against Poles in Belarus. After the detention of the representatives of the ZPB to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he was called as a matter of urgency to chargé d The Belarusian embassy in Warsaw. Our embassy in Minsk also sent an urgent note to the Belarusian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, expressing strong opposition and demand to clarify the reasons and legal grounds for actions of a repressive nature towards activists of the Polish minority. We point out that the actions of the Belarusian authorities are contrary to accepted commitments to the Polish minority, which are recorded among others. in the Treaty between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Belarus with good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation, but they are also contrary to international law and the political standards in force in this area. Poland has issued a number of entry bans, including for the judge who led the case of Angelica Boris. Other identified persons involved in the repression of the Polish minority were also subject to similar restrictions immediately. As part of the campaign initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Free Poles in Belarus, more than 100 Polish diplomatic and consulate institutions all over the world began, among others. in social media, an information campaign on the situation of Poles in Belarus. Free Poles in Belarus joined Polish organizations from all over the world. The statements on Poles in Belarus were made by the Council of the Polish World, the European Union of the Polish Communities and many other Polish organizations and associations abroad. Minister Zbigniew Rau raised the issue of violations of the rights of national minorities, the right to assembly or freedom of expression by the Belarusian authorities during many meetings in the NATO forum or within the European Union. This topic is constantly addressed in conversations with all our partners, among others. including members of the UN Security Council. The attack on the Polish minority, because that's how we see it, is another component of large-scale human rights violations in Belarus. Ladies and gentlemen, we have used a very rich catalogue of international instruments. After the arrests of our compatriots, President Andrzej Duda spoke, among others.: with the Secretary-General of the OSCE, Ms Helga Schmid; with the High Commissioner for National Minorities, Mr Äbdirachmanov; with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mrs Burić; with the President of the UN Human Rights Council Michelle Bachelet, a member of the UN Security Council, President of Estonia. Prime Minister Morawiecki intervened in this matter during the European Council meeting and the Minister for Foreign Affairs also in direct talks with his partners from allies. He also issued a statement on the persecution of Poles on the initiative of the Polish head of EU diplomacy Josep Borrell. The European Commission called on the Belarusian authorities to immediately release Angelica Boris and Andrzej Poczobut. The statements of international organisations involved in the protection of human rights were also an expression of Polish activity. In April, a statement on the situation in Belarus, including a reference to discrimination of representatives of the Polish national minority, was issued, among others. Director of the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE, Mr Matteo Mecacci. During the meeting of the Committee of Delegates of Ministers in March this year. At the request of Poland, the General Secretary of the Council of Europe raised the issue of persecution of Poles living in Belarus. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of Polish diplomatic and consulate activities, on 25 May this year. 3 previously imprisoned activists of the Polish minority from Belarus, mentioned Mrs Biernacka, Mrs Tiszkowska and Mrs Paniszewa arrived in Poland. They were provided with the necessary support and were provided with adequate care, including medical care. For the sake of security, both the ladies and the people involved in this action will, of course, not be able to provide additional details. What I can say is that we are glad that these 3 representatives of the Polish minority are healthy and safe in our country. With regard to Angelica Boris and Andrzej Poczobut, of course, we will continue our work by creating some kind of pressure and trying to make the authorities of Minsk aware that the implementation of the rights of national minorities and human rights should in no case be subject to a political invitation, and actions which undermine these rights will always face joint and several condemnation by the international community. Polish diplomatic and consulary delegations undertake the necessary interventions also at local level, while at the same time taking care of the victims and their families, providing appropriate support. We will raise the issue of the persecution of the Polish minority in Belarus and the need to release representatives of this minority from detentions, also in working contacts with the Belarus embassy in Poland and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus. We will keep this subject high on the agenda of international human rights organisations. We continue the procedures for regular meetings with the detained and, of course, we will continue to support their families. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to stress that Poland is implementing a coherent plan for Belarus. It is a strategy based on the defence of fundamental values, the principle of solidarity and effective international cooperation. I think everyone in Poland is very impressed by the motivation and perseverance of the Belarusian people. I firmly believe that this perseverance will be rewarded. There will be changes in my belief in Belarus. Alexander Lukashenka's time in Belarus politics has passed. The West knows this, but other countries are beginning to understand this too, thanks to which the support of the Minsk regime continues for the time being. In my opinion, Alexander Lukashenka himself also knows and understands this very well. The irreversibility of this process certainly understands its immediate surroundings. The changes in Belarus will take place sooner or later, and we will continue to work patiently and patiently towards these changes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, thanking you once again for your commitment to Belarus, I would of course like to declare the full readiness of the government of the Republic of Poland and that our actions should be even more coherent and thus effective. Free and sovereign, and democratic Belarus is our common cause. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister's questions? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this very analytical and substantive speech. But I would ask the Minister... Are you able to indicate how many Polish activists in Belarus were subjected to repression? Does the Polish government monitor the situation in this area? I know this isn't easy, but I don't mean names. I'm just talking about scale. We'd like to know the data, we'd like to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u175	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. You can answer from your seat if you prefer. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marcin Addicz:... Mr Marshal will collect questions. I understand that...]] Then why don't you just... We'll see how many questions there will be. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marcin Przydcz: Sure.]] For now, there's only one more senator left, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u176	I see. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for this assessment. As for the repression that our fellow countrymen face across the eastern border, the correct answer to your question is: all our fellow countrymen actively involved in the activities of independent environments, including the Union of Poles in Belarus, are, in a sense, subject to repression, being bullied. After all, these arrests, which I just mentioned here, also affect the functioning of other activists. Well, five people have been detained, two of which are still under investigation. Another two people, Mr Pisalnik and his wife, were also detained, then released and de facto brought to leave Belarus. School heads, students of Polish schools, both state and social... Because let us remind you that as a result of the activity of Polish diplomacy in the years 2015 and 2020 the number of social schools teaching in Polish has increased sharply. Of course, all of these schools are subject to certain risks due to the atmosphere in Belarus. The Polish Union in Belarus, of course, also limits its activity, fearing repression, fearing arrests, fearing dismissals. This applies not only to activists, but also to their families. So I answer specifically: 5 people have been detained, although basically every member of the Union of Poles in Belarus is more or less subjected to various types of repression, psychological pressures. This also applies to children participating in these courses. Their parents are under pressure not to involve their children in learning Polish. But I would also like to emphasise some kind of courage and determination of these parents, because despite the difficult situation and despite a number of tensions, these schools are still trying to function. Children still want to learn Polish, they still want to learn the history of their fathers, and some of them, of course, also think about coming to Poland someday. Of course, we as a Polish country are always open to them, but it is not our goal or plan to make the territories historically inhabited by the Polish minority empty. Any countryman living in Belarus can now easily cross the border, he can come here, he can receive support, he also has the possibility of education. Those who have the Polish Charter get a number of other facilities. But in our opinion they should have the right to function in their homeland, because they never left their homeland. It was because of geopolitical changes that the boundaries changed, and they still live in their own homes, on their homeland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u177	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, well, we all want the Belarusian people to decide their own future, we want Belarus to be a sovereign, free and independent state. For this to happen, we cannot leave the Belarusians alone. That is why it welcomes the multiplicity of government action presented in your information, both at international and national level. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. It goes on, among other things. about the economic plan for democratic Belarus. There were visa facilitations provided, the Minister here stated that 125 000 people benefited from these visa facilitations. Have other countries of the European Union also introduced such visa facilitations? I would also like to ask how many measures since September 2020. Poland has committed itself to support Belarusian society and as is the case with other countries of the European Union. The Minister spoke here, among others. about the programme "Solidarni z Belorussia'. As if there was more to be said about the involvement of NGOs in aid and scholarship programmes... The Minister has already partially responded here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u179	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u180	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator. As far as visa facilitation is concerned, they are primarily the result of the actions of the Polish government, as well as the Polish legislator. It was the senators who voted on the legislative changes that allowed, among others, to be made. to facilitate the acquisition of humanitarian visas. But let me stress once again: these humanitarian visas, to a large extent, also allow work to take place. So mostly it's our actions... Besides, as a border country, we have always been a leader in the number of visas issued. In previous years, before the crisis, Poland, partly also Lithuania, was responsible for 80% all Schengen visas issued. In fact, Belarusians, in their mass they travel to Poland and Lithuania, whether for economic purposes, whether for educational purposes or for purely human, tourist purposes, come shopping. Well, unfortunately, these numbers are slightly smaller today, as a result of the closure of the border by Alexander Lukashenka. It is not easy to leave Belarus. Unfortunately, following decisions following the kidnapping of a civilian aircraft, air traffic is also limited. I can only assure you that any citizen will appear at the Polish border, having a visa or presenting any information about his or her being oppressed, of course he will and will always be treated accordingly, so as to ensure his or her safety. As for visas issued by other countries, of course I can try to obtain such information. I am not responsible for other countries' actions. But it is certainly Poland that is the absolute leader here in issuing these visas, also within the framework of the special programs that I spoke about, for IT specialists I gave specific figures But also for representatives of the medical professions. Here, too, they were legislatively introduced. various facilities so that doctors, nurses, who for various reasons cannot continue their work in Belarus, can cross borders. The economic plan for Belarus, Mr Senator, is a kind of plan for the future. He doesn't apply to specific activities today. This is to show a positive vision, which can happen in a situation where the Belarusian people will decide the future of their country. We are fully aware of the difficult economic and social situation in Belarus. And we are also fully aware that Belarusian society, well, often also in recent years, can fear some kind of change, also after these historical transitions, from World War II through the Soviet times to the difficult 1990s. The fear of transformation is very high there. We want to show by this signal that, in a situation of change, they will not be left to themselves in an internal dialogue situation. 3 billion euros are really big resources, but these measures are just supposed to be some kind of incentive. Two events, which we could organise at a given moment, are really meant to interest European investors, but also small and medium-sized Belarusian enterprises, in order to try, first of all, to carry out this transformation a little bit, as I said, in the shape of the Polish transformation. Today, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are the flywheel of the Polish economy, not the post-Soviet piers we see in the Belarusian economy. So these are a little bit of two different topics. When it comes to the funds that Poland has spent, I have been talking about specific amounts. First of all, it is 50 million PLN of additional support. Because it's not like that, Mr. Senator, that we haven't done anything yet. As part of our development projects, a number of initiatives were also carried out earlier, mainly targeted precisely at the support of local authorities, whether local administration or small business within the framework of development policy. After all, scholarships and in previous years were implemented. These measures are such an additional injection that responds to this demand. As far as the involvement of other countries is concerned, we would naturally want a more ambitious policy of our partners. Here it is worth highlighting the activity of the United States through the USAID organization, which has been operating until recently in Minsk. In recent days, Alexander Lukashenka's decision to expel this entity from Belarus has been made to limit the diplomatic presence of the United States in Belarus. Why is that? Because they were probably too active and too active in supporting Belarusian society. As far as Belsat is concerned, because this is probably a rather important project financed for many, many years from the Polish budget, from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Polish Television, and often, when discussing the Polish Television, we forget that many millions of years of annual television Poland is devoted to this project. Unfortunately, this international support, for example, for this free media project, I will remind you: giving independent information in Belarusian, as the only one, is of course not enough. We are trying to encourage our Western partners to this extent. We have some kind of success here. Both British and our Dutch partners are trying to contribute, but these are more percentage shares than a few percent. Belsat, of course, needs much, much more resources, because the Belarusian authorities do not rest on laurels and are very actively hindering the work by arresting journalists by taking equipment. And this equipment has to be bought again, right? All of this requires concrete measures. So it is also an appeal to all of us to try not only to make our foreign partners aware, but also to encourage active support, including financial support. As for non-governmental organisations and the resources that are being allocated, these works are coordinated by the International Solidarity Foundation on our part, on the part of the Polish government. And any organisation that returns will certainly receive information on how to obtain these funds. The main accelerator of these measures is the Belarusian House. That was the idea for one Belarusian organization to support others as well. There are a few, a dozen of those organizations that are active. The Coordination Council with the current representative and also the National Anti-crisis Board of Ambassador Latushka can count on our support. But all of this must be done within the framework of Polish law, so that the money of the Polish taxpayer is actually properly and safely spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u182	Thank you very much. Minister, briefly: after the Presidential elections in Belarus, as regards cultural exchanges between Poland and Belarus, as well as scientific exchanges, we had a common historical, cultural heritage and there were various programmes in this area, among others. archival cooperation, which was very important, I think, for both countries, and certainly for Poland... Has there been any freezing in this area? I get signals from these environments that the situation is extremely difficult. So if you'd like to say two words here...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u184	Thank you very, very much. Indeed, because of our common heritage, but also because of the cultural presence of Poland in the territory of today's Belarus and due to the shared experience of the difficult history of the Soviet occupation, this cultural and historical subject is very important for us. This cooperation flourished between 2015 and 2020, despite, of course, our lack of acceptance of the political system in Belarus. We have also tried with some kind of diplomatic action and with the involvement of Polish parliamentarians to create an atmosphere that may not be warmed up, but a number of projects can be implemented at this microlevel. Hence visits to archives, hence among others. a number of projects which were carried out for the renewal of the Polish heritage are Polish churches, Polish real estates, which were once part of the Polish heritage, also cemeteries. It is worth mentioning that, as a result of our actions, we have renewed several, several cemeteries connected with such, I would say, a subject more difficult from the perspective of the mentality of the authorities in Minsk, because it was soldiers who died in 1920, during the Polish-Bolshevik war, in the battle on Germany. A number of these cemeteries have indeed been renovated, and today they are the subject of further care of the Union of Poles in Belarus. Of course, this political atmosphere, created by such and not by other decisions of the authorities in Minsk, has caused a regression of this cooperation. It's obvious. On the one hand, there is no possibility of coming, there is no possibility of direct contact, but mainly due to the limitation of the presence of Polish diplomatic personnel... Because let us be aware that these projects were implemented with the support of Polish diplomats, Polish consuls. Indeed, this cooperation is very, very difficult today, but let us be aware that in such an atmosphere of political relations, in such a situation, while Alexander Lukashenka treats her own citizens, it would be difficult here to seek some warming of relations in specific sectors. As far as possible, we are trying to do this, but I am sad to admit that unfortunately there is a regression in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome. Senator Mammoths was still reporting for questioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask, Minister, whether organisations such as the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the Ombudsman or Amnesty International cooperate with the government, so that this emphasis on Belarus is more concrete.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u187	Thank you very much. With regard to the activity of these three organisations mentioned by your Senator, the subject of human rights is certainly of interest to them, too, given their profile. I noted, as far as the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights is concerned, their activity in the context of detained Poles, but rather it was an activity aimed at creating a kind of atmosphere of pressure on the Polish government, although we did not need this pressure in any way. By nature, we wanted to bring about the release of our people as soon as possible, and if not the release of them, at least to improve their existence. But I don't think this is the place to criticize this kind of thing. All possible actions that could ultimately improve the existence of our compatriots abroad, the Polish government accepts as a good coin. As far as direct contact is concerned, I also noted the fact that Raman Pratasiewicz's family represented him. I met with the parents of this young man in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and parents were represented by a lawyer from the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, for which of course they should also be thanked. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, I haven't met with any activity that would come to me. As far as Amnesty International is concerned, it is also, but this absolutely does not exclude such activity, perhaps some activity was carried out, but I just don't know it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u188	Thank you very much. Minister, you may not know this either because Amnesty International's human rights activity in Belarus is not addressed to the Polish government. So, even if it's because of that. Well, many different initiatives in the world are taking place, in which the Polish government does not participate. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marcin Addicz: That's why I said: I do not exclude that such activity was, but I do not feel competent to answer.]] Even now on the Internet, I have checked how much Amnesty International is doing about human rights in Belarus. But that's just information. Are there any other questions? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Yes.]] There isn't? [[They're ……]] [[Voice from the room: We don't have...]] No questions? [[They're ……]] I'm really sorry, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u189	There are questions because I speak on behalf of all the non-negligible people who, for the last 10 months, being in bottom-up initiatives, help day by day at their expense, free of charge, with a sense of self-esteem. Therefore, I would like to ask very strongly, on the occasion, about economic sanctions for Polish companies which continue to cooperate with the regime. 56% that's as much as Belarus comes down to Poland's raw wood. I would very much like the Polish government to try to understand this and develop sanctions for all 16 companies. Secondly, I would like to ask for systemic solutions on migration policy issues. Why do we, ordinary people who don't care about what's going on, have to get a call from the Border Guard at one o'clock in the morning because a free quarantine hasn't been provided for visa applicants with... Why do we, ordinary citizens and citizens, operating here in Poland, have to suffer through a non-categorical regulation and... set it up? Please and I ask: why is there still no information point for all Belarusians and Belarusians, which would be available in Russian, Belarusian, whatever would be understandable? I called on Mr Michał Dworczyk to do so in September 2020 in a private conversation, but I hoped that this voice would be heard. I guess I had to scream to get here, to this place, and talk about it, and ask It's an inconvenient question. Yeah, that's an inconvenient question. And you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u190	But I would love to ask you, with all due respect... [[Yes...]] Democratic institutions also rely on following procedures. Your voice has been heard, but your further speech will be a completely unnecessary and, I believe, damaging to the democratic opposition in Belarus an obstacle to the work of the Senate of the Republic of Belarus. [[My...]] I would ask you to use a different way than a non-regulatory one to present your best wishes in this area. I can promise you that the senators in this room will attend a press conference with you, and we will support your action in every way possible, thanking you for your commitment. But please also understand me as a marshal who is forced and impartially conducted by all the participants in this debate and enforce respect for the Rules of Procedure from each participant. Thank you very much again, and... [[Thank you very much...]] ...I declare all my help... [[Thank you for the declaration. Let's go over the divisions. Work over the divisions.]] Thank you very much, again. The Minister is not obliged to answer in any way, but if you consider it appropriate to refer to the words that have been said here, then, I believe, and I, and we will all be obliged.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Out of respect also for the Belarusian opposition, for the representatives of Belarus' civil society, I would like to address this rather briefly, at least on one point, because the issue of legislative issues, when it comes to migration policy, should rather be of interest to the High House and to the parliamentary body than to the representative of the government administration, so I consider it rather as a question of whether we, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, may also be helpful in this respect if we need to. As for economic sanctions, it was the subject of a commentary, questions First of all, I would like to stress that the three tranches of economic sanctions that have been adopted at European Union level also as a result of Poland's actions concern specific Belarusian enterprises, of which we are convinced and confident that they finance the apparatus of repression. At this point, after the relevant decision of the European Council, consensus was once again reached. The conclusions of the last European Council indicate directly that the fourth tranche of sanctions Both individual, i.e. specific individuals and companies, are being developed at the moment. And I can assure you that some of the companies you are talking about will be on the list of sanctions, because it cannot be that Belarusian companies operate peacefully in the European Union, earn money and then spend this money on a apparatus of repression that oppresses free Belarusians. And here, when it comes to Poland's position, I will say that we are absolutely determined to continue. At the same time, I would stress that the European Council concluded an additional point in its conclusions by referring to the urgent development by the European Commission or by the European External Action Service of a package of such targeted economic sanctions. And as we all know, I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. Those who are interested in the subject know There are also some sectoral sanctions on specific enterprises in specific sectors under discussion. This is also an appeal to the European Commission to draw up this proposal as soon as possible. Of course, Poland has a lot of information and arguments here, which we are sending to the European Commission. I think that this decision will soon be finalised. But let us stress that this applies to Belarusian companies which are in economic, commercial contact with European companies. Well, that's European policy. We may close, deprive these entrepreneurs of the possibility to operate on the European market, which will obviously also affect the economic reality in Belarus. So these decisions are being processed at this point, but the agreement of all 27 states is required to do so. And we have led 27 countries to this agreement at the last European Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening... Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marcin Addicz: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the information you have submitted to Deputy Minister Marcin Przydacz, who, as Undersecretary of State, is responsible in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for security, American, Asian and Eastern policies. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has been supporting and supporting democratic change in Belarus from the beginning, both through action in the country and in the international arena. It is worth recalling that it was at the initiative of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki that an extraordinary European Council was convened on the situation in Belarus. Concrete proposals for investment and support from the European Union are essential for democratic change for Belarus. Declarations alone are not enough, a specific plan was needed. And it was Poland, together with our V4 partners, who then presented an economic plan for democratic Belarus worth EUR 3 billion. This plan includes financial incentives, economic support and investment in infrastructure. The Minister said, among others, the sanctions, but it is also worth recalling a few important effects of our government's actions with us, in the country for fighting for the freedom of Belarusians, reminding us of what, among other things. You said the Minister. Since the fraudulent presidential elections in Belarus, Poland has issued over 125 000 visas to citizens of Belarus, which is the result of maximum simplification and acceleration of procedures. Only since September 2020. Poland has allocated more than PLN 50 million to support Belarusian society, more than any other country of the European Union. This money is intended to help those who are repressed. For medical care, rehabilitation. Within the framework of the "Poland" programme. Business Harbours, hundreds of entrepreneurs moved their companies to Poland, mainly the IT sector. The Scholarship Programme operates. Konstanty Kalinowski, under whom more than 1 thousand 700 people were supported by scientific workers and students from Belarus. Belarusians can also count on the assistance and support of many NGOs operating in Poland. One of them is the International Solidarity Foundation mentioned by the Minister, which is patronized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a direct help for people who come to our country. Very pleased with the declarations on continued support for democratic change in Belarus by the government. I am pleased that the opposition also makes positive statements on this issue, that we are acting on this issue over political divisions. Our solidarity with Belarus is our contribution to building a free, secure and democratic Europe. Belarus deserves freedom, Belarus deserves true independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u194	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Our support for Belarusians and Belarusians is perhaps one of the few topics in foreign policy that both parts of this room agree on. If we have many legitimate objections to the current government It's about him actually erased it. Poland from the map of American foreign policy, which is complained about in an interview in Rzeczpospolita... He should not complain, it is his predecessors who should not make mistakes that make that no one consults Poland before the next summit. This is a situation that the Government of Law and Justice is responsible for. This has happened despite the fact that in this House we have called on many times, including in the form of a resolution, so that you do not act as you have decided to do. You have acted foolishly, and now you are reaping the fruit of it. Now all Polish people reap the fruitage of this wrong course. But I don't want to talk about Polish-American relations, I want to talk about what we have in common. Indeed, in this House, in Parliament, we have a feeling. It's probably most Poles that feel connected. That we must be in solidarity with those who suffer, and because the suffering of Belarusians and Belarusians today is terrible... This is one of the few countries in the whole Euro-Asian area where terror is a daily phenomenon. This is a country where every day people disappear, in which people are arrested only for having different beliefs than the ruling dictator. This is nothing new, for in the 1990's the ruling dictator decided to show that he was going to get away with political massacres. And indeed, by ordering several of his opponents to be murdered, starting with Wiktar Hanchar and ending with businessman Krasowski and others, he really looked at how Poland and other European countries, other democratic countries, would react to this fact. And we have made this effort to help in investigating the truth about that murder, the obvious political murder, and we have supported the Belarusians and Belarusians who have been opponents of President Lukashenka for many years. This was the case here in Parliament, in our national parliament, in the European Parliament. It is not by chance that the heads of the European Parliament delegation for Belarus were representatives of the Civic Platform, who did everything to create a forum to hear and present the situation of free Belarusians and Belarusians in an authoritarian state. I believe that the Polish Government responded in a manner appropriate to the events of last summer, but I also think that it is doing too little and reacting too slowly as regards the necessary response to what is happening in Belarus. It's Sunday a few weeks ago. A plane is being kidnapped. This is an air piracy act done by one country. This plane is registered in Poland, so there is no reason not to react quickly. You should have reacted quickly. I will repeat what I said probably a week ago, namely that when I was driving from the airport to the Sejmasu in Vilnius, I was sadly listening to information about how quickly the Lithuanian President reacted, not only by condemning this event, but also by presenting the necessary steps that Lithuania will demand in an international forum. I listened to it sadly because our president's reaction came later, but it didn't come until tonight. What happened that President Duda couldn't react as quickly as the President of Lithuania? What happened that Poland's expectations regarding the international community were not immediately presented to the public, when it was known that there was a wide consultation of security experts? I do not recall the intensity of the talks we had during those hours, with the participation of the very fames for international security, starting with François Heisbourg, and ending with American experts, talks about how Europe should respond to this incident, but an act of air terror. All you had to do was read what the security experts were saying and make some sort of own set of proposals. He was introduced, but much later. In the meantime, outstanding, in my opinion, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Arnoldas Pranckevičius, who has worked in the European Parliament for years as an advisor to the leaders of the Belarus delegation and later, if I remember correctly, to the Lithuanian ambassador to the European Union, so he has good preparation and good knowledge in terms of both EU and Belarusian issues... He called the next day, on Monday, a closed meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Security Committee in Sejmasa to discuss the situation as a whole. What prevented the Polish Sejm or the Polish Senate from holding such a meeting with Members or Senators? This could also be done at the Prime Minister's firm, as it was at the beginning, even last year. Such consultations have not been conducted. Isn't that enough reason to finally convene a National Security Council meeting to not only share knowledge but also share responsibility? It's a responsibility. All of us. It is a responsibility to the great idea of Solidarity, which allowed this House to be rebuilt 31 years ago. This House would not have been here if it hadn't been for the idea of "Solidarity." Today, this idea of solidarity works in practice in our relations with Belarus, in our solidarity with heroic Belarusians and Belarusians. How much we give as parliamentarians, there is so much solidarity in us. What the Polish state does to those who had to flee their homeland and chose Poland as their country of temporary residence is a measure of this solidarity in the execution of the authorities of our country. I think that this solidarity is not enough. She is, but there should be more. There should be more proposals for Kalinowski's scholarships. It is good that this program is, well that there is a qualification, well that it has different forms, but there should be more. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] More should also be the care of the Polish state over the leaders of the Belarusian opposition in our country... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] ...over Paul Latushka, but also other leaders associated with the Coordinating Council or civil society leaders. They must have the guarantee of the Polish state that they will not be transported in the trunk, that they will not be kidnapped from the territory of the Polish state and taken where they will be sentenced to long-term imprisonment, repression, torture, and possibly death. The Polish State is obliged to guarantee this. And finally, one last thing. You have to avoid mistakes. That's what we're demanding as an opposition, which I'm going to say again. In general, it supports this direction of action. The interaction of power and opposition on assistance and support for Belarus is what we expect. However, mistakes must be avoided, Cardinal errors should be avoided as in the case of Raman Pratasiewicz, whom the Polish state has not granted political asylum. What had happened and what was happening to him at the moment would not have happened if it had not been because of systemic errors that political asylum had not been given him. And a word to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak with one voice, let us use one language when it comes to Belarus, because it is not only a question of solidarity, but also a question of the national interest of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about the situation in Belarus, and this situation has a double dimension for us Poles. It has the current dimension that we are talking about today. There are important words here. But it also has a historical dimension. I'm going to start with him because there were words here that need to be addressed, or rather explain their context. Our special interest in common history and today's fate of Belarus does not come from some Polish paternalism. We And I believe that, not only in my own name, we are fully aware that in the Second Republic of Poland, the country to which we refer, our fellow citizens of the Belarusian nationality were the majority in 2 voivodships, in the Polesian and Nowogrodsk voivodeship. We are aware that, before the war, our fellow citizens, who considered themselves Belarusians, constituted 2 million inhabitants of our common homeland. And we also know that in the school year 1938-1939 no Belarusian child in Poland could learn in Belarusian, but every Belarusian child in Poland witnessed the destruction of the church, the destruction of the House of God, a place so important in the lives of these people. We have a sense of duty resulting from a difficult history connecting us with our sisters and brothers in Belarus. And there is also no paternalism or sense of superiority in us towards those who have faced challenges that Poles have been facing for 30 years, and in fact for at least forty years they have not been able to stand up, breaking down. There is no sense of superiority or paternalism in us, there is a sense of humility and brotherhood towards our Belarusian brothers and sisters. Since today we can talk so rarely in Poland about a seed of unity, agreement and a common language between us and the government, it is good that this is the case. And it is good that in those days the President of the Republic, which I rarely say anything good about, makes such an important gesture, goes to Zaleshan and talks to the descendants of people murdered in 1946 by the National Military Union unit. It is good that in those days in which we, in the Senate, and the Polish government, and the Polish opposition on the international stage demand the right and freedom for the Belarusians, the Polish President, and it is the Polish President of this political camp, who has the courage to go and bow down to the victims of Polish nationalism, small children and women, to celebrate those who died only because they spoke Belarusian and professed Christianity in the eastern dimension. This adds credibility to our policy, it adds credibility to our actions in the eyes of our brothers and sisters in Belarus. Now, with all the support we have and solidarity with the Polish government, we cannot ignore two things. As it happens, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that a very important minister and undoubtedly emotionally and politically positively involved in Belarus, Minister Michał Dworczyk Glory be to him for doing anything good in this case. Is he the victim of Russian hackers? But it's not just that. As it happens, Dear Members, our Belarusian friends in Lithuania feel secure and do not feel under surveillance by the Belarusian special forces, because the Lithuanian special forces are able to guarantee their safety, and I hear from another person associated with the Belarusian opposition And it is worth you to hear in the government that the photos and information about who is doing something in Warsaw in a dozen seconds are in the KGB headquarters in Minsk? If you think that your special services will not meet our solidarity in this area, then you are mistaken. Instead of eavesdropping, monitoring people connected with Polish politics, maybe you should take up Belarusian special services, which apparently roam our country, and it is not like, for example. in Lithuania, where they are treated hard. Finally, my second claim to the government, which made one of the foundations of its policy from getting up out of its knees and from its dignity policy, and the fight for the wreckage, an important wreck for Poles, became an element of national mythology. We have the right to expect from such a government a particularly firm response on air piracy directed at an aircraft registered in Poland, formally Polish aircraft. Where is the reaction to our allies? Where is any symbolic response to this incredible act of violation of Polish sovereignty and unprecedented act of violation of decency in international relations at all? The same government, which was able to start an international dispute about IPN about the extremely negative consequences for Poland, is surprisingly calm in the situation of insulting national symbols of Poles, which was even the intrusion on board a Polish plane in St. Petersburg of Russian Special Forces. This plane, the plane of the Polish Airlines LOT, had a white and red chessboard, a sacred sign for us And the Russians could do whatever they wanted on that plane. Any firm action by the Polish government in this area will meet our full solidarity. Since in 1939 the great Polish poet was able to write in his homeland the accounts of the wrongs, their foreign hand would not cross them off either and he wrote this on behalf of those Polish left-wing patriots who were in prison before the war... And regardless of how critical we are towards the current government, it must certainly be said that the political opposition in the Second Republic has been treated incomparably worse than the opposition is today treated by the Polish government, although it is treated very badly and customarily. But even then, the great Polish patriot with a complicated CV, Władysław Broniewski, wrote: "They are in their homeland accounts of harm, and the foreign hand will not cross them off either. And these words we can, with all due respect to others, as I have already said, repeat the terms today. We have with you, with the government, with the camp of the present power your difficult and painful accounts, we regret that today, although you would like to do otherwise, you are less effective in defending freedom in Belarus, because you are weaker in Western Europe and today Poland's influence on Western politics is incomparably smaller than in 2014, when it was at our initiative, at the initiative of the then Polish government, the West took a very hard stance against Russian aggression on Ukraine, but in this particular case we sympathize with you. and we would like you to be able to do more in Europe and to be more credible in the field of human rights, progress and pro-European policy. But surely these opposition activists in Belarus, who expect help from Poland and Europe, must hear that the Polish Minister of National Education compares the European Union to the Soviet Union, and says that Polish children will learn about how illegal the European Union is. Such a government, Dear Friends, cannot be credible in Europe in defending freedom anywhere else. However, without changing the critical attitude towards you or the iota, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, I declare, I believe, not only in my own name: wherever you defend the Polish national interest, what you do in defence of freedom in Belarus, you will gain our support and patriotic solidarity. And to our Belarusian brothers and sisters, by expressing these expressions of solidarity, I would like to express my deepest conviction that sooner or later free Poles and free Belarusians will live in a free Europe without borders, in our common European home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u198	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! But above all, our guests from Belarus, Our Friends, Neighbors and those whom we are looking at today in a special way! Many people in this Chamber, too, have been deluded for many years that Alexander Lukashenko will choose for Belarus the path of gradual standardisation and democratisation of the activities of public institutions, will enter the path of respect for human rights. We were wrong. We were wrong, Dear Friends, Friends, sometimes Neighbors here in Poland. Sorry about that. It was a huge mistake. We apologize to you, Belarusians there, in Belarus, and people living in Poland, and we apologize to Poles living in Belarus. In this respect, we have proved ineffective, unpredictable. Today we have to say one thing: that our partner is not and will no longer be Alexander Lukashenko. The only partners for us are Belarusians. And in this case, I can judge that in some cases the government is taking - Thank you. - Thank you. In some cases, as Raman Pratasiewicz's case, he makes mistakes, but, as my previous speakers said, the Polish government and the Polish opposition speak with one important voice in this matter, claiming human rights in Belarus. Allow me some personal attention from the former Minister of Justice. It is a drama for those who fight for human rights in Belarus, that not only unofficially people disappear there, but also officially in Belarus the death penalty is still in force and has been executed several hundred times since 1990. And it is also in practice a punishment that can be received for acting in behalf of another human being. All the more reason for us to approach with great tact and respect those who are fighting for human rights in Belarus. This tact, this respect must also accompany those of you who are in Poland, Lithuania or other countries of the European Union, because many of you have their loved ones in prisons, subjected to torture and inhuman treatment. Such tact and sense, our dear friends, you have the right to expect and expect from us. And for my part, I will end with such wishes: I hope that in the not so distant future, when I cross the Polish-Belarusian border, I will enter another country of the European Union whose citizens will enjoy rights, freedoms and freedoms. And this is very warm and I wish you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u201	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Dear, Dear Belarusian Friends! As some of my previous speakers have said here, what the Polish government is doing is going in the right direction and there are a lot of valuable initiatives, ranging from 50 extra million to helping Belarus to more frequent granting of visas, to helping the oppressed. All this, if you want to be honest, should be absolutely and unambiguously commended. What's missing... Minister, I'm sorry, but it's missing. In your speech, too. First of all, there is no clear strategy. on how to limit its activities by pressing on the Lukashenka regime I won't hesitate to use those words. On the verge of committing crimes against your own people. There is also a lack of effectiveness in building concrete assistance and international strategy of the West, especially the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, towards Belarus and supporting it from Moscow Vladimir Putin. Let's be honest, let's not fool ourselves because we all know that, all of us who deal with this issue: both sanctions against the Lukashenka regime and assistance to civil society organisations in Belarus are poor, insufficient. Please understand me well: it is not the fault of Poland, and it is certainly not the exclusive fault of Poland. Always, always, for 30 years it has been so that it was difficult to interest Eastern Western Europe, the European Union as a whole, and there have been periods that also friends behind the Atlantic I'm talking about the Americans, because the Canadians were much easier to get interested in. And in the past, Poland played a very often role as a catalyst in terms of this stronger aid to Belarus or a stronger response to the wickedness of the Lukashenka regime. Why? Because Polish influence, Polish position, Polish possibilities of political initiatives were greater than today. The Minister spoke of the right initiative Only for now are these plans like pear trees on the willow What we will do if the Lukashenka regime falls and the Belarusians enter the path of transformation. Unfortunately, he's a long way from it for now. I remind you that 10 years ago, after a much smaller humanitarian crisis and a much smaller wave of repression, Polish diplomacy was able to hold such a conference of donors, you say that we will organize one such as the collapse of the Lukashenka regime in less than a month and a half after the fraudulent elections and the moment when several hundred people were arrested. At the moment, this scale of repression, which I stress once again, is incomparable to anything we've been dealing with over the past 30 years. 30,000 people He went through arrests and prisons, and there are still 500 people in them, and this number is rising, and 2,000 people were tortured or severely beaten. Like more than a decade ago Poland with partners from Europe At that time with Sweden, but there were also other partners in this project, the former Soviet Union was in the state of 6 countries with which the European Union is neighbouring or which are a little further away, from the Caucasus, to offer the Eastern Partnership, a very important political initiative, so now we need similar ambitious policy initiatives, e.g. a large European Partnership for Belarus plan, which clearly shows what is now and not when the Belarusian regime will one day fall. This better be the case, but unfortunately, there's nothing to indicate it yet. Why is this happening? Why are our influences smaller? It's because we don't build trust. How can we build trust in Europe if today the Minister of Government, who you represent, is the Minister of Justice once again comparing the European Union to the criminal Soviet Union? How are we supposed to build trust in our policy initiatives in the East when we find out that the European Commission is supporting the Czech proposal on the Turov case? How are we supposed to build our influence in the West, how are we supposed to build trust there, when the European Union calls on the Polish Prime Minister to withdraw the request made to the Constitutional Court to recognise the superiority of national law over the EU? How are we supposed to build trust in our political projects, including in the East and in Belarus, across the ocean, when the leading representatives of the ruling party have been insulting the former President of the United States, Barack Obama, who, as it happens, was the head of the current President of the United States for two days? And finally, how do we have to our policy towards Belarus, an ambitious policy, one that really changes reality in Belarus, convince partners in the West, since one of the most important politicians of the governing party, the head of its parliamentary club, vice-marshal of the Sejm, offends publicly in the tweet 3 or 4 days ago, the president-elect of free Belarus, Mrs. Swielana Cichanouska? How can anyone who has been oppressed by the Belarusian regime and whose husband is still in the Belarusian prison say, "Let him seek help in Moscow?" And it does not meet with the choir of condemnation on the side of the politicians of the ruling party, but with the choir, to whom these shameful words are to be called, bass, which supports them. On my behalf, but I am convinced that also on behalf of the majority of Poles, I would like to apologize very much for these unworthy words of the High Representative of the Polish Parliament of the Belarusian people and Mrs Cichanouska herself. I'm going to end by saying that foreign policy isn't something that seems like a ruling party. And it uses this in its internal policy, and it can be discussed by presenting more or less true statistics on dozens of pages. It's really about effectiveness, not propaganda. Unfortunately, this lack of effectiveness of Poland for the mobilisation of the West and for common ambitious projects towards Belarus has resulted from the ruining of Polish diplomacy over the last 5.5 years and the effect of picco and propaganda policies instead of a policy consisting in tedious building contacts, influences, sometimes despite differences in difficult negotiations, simply foreign policy based on professionalism. What is happening today about Belarus, this inertia of the West, but also Poland, is unfortunately the result of lost opportunities in Polish foreign policy during these more than 5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. I sign many statements from my colleagues from both the Civic Coalition and the independent senator, because Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski spoke here. We all feel the same way. It may be worth adding that we also feel that the states of the battle for freedom are in a completely different, far worse situation than the one that we had in the 1980s. We want you to know that. In Poland there were repressions, but not on such a scale, and we did not have this experience of loneliness, this inability to receive help, because even in the 1980s, the aid came to us because the system was not so tight. So on the one hand is the experience of your loneliness, on the other hand Our inability. But what I'm trying to say is that the power of history is the desire for human freedom. The history of post-war Europe, and above all the history of countries that have liberated themselves from the Soviet yoke, bears witness to this and this moment of celebration will surely happen. But human life is precious every year, and we have to fight to make this bad time shorter. And it is important to know at what level Polish foreign policy will be at this difficult time. There are no people responsible for Polish foreign policy. Well, that's too bad. But I want to say three rules here. Firstly, she must be common, but not in the sense that the opposition conducts foreign policy together with the President and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, only in the sense that she is constantly being heard. We had the impression that Prime Minister Morawiecki invited the opposition to take a serious part in the policy of support for Belarus, only that it was one gesture, one event after which there was no continuation, and that was very bad. So this is the first question to the present Prime Minister Morawiecki, or in concrete, unconfirmed forms... whether he will return to something that, in a normal situation, should be a canon in a mature country. Secondly, in such matters, in such sensitive matters, there is no more to be said in such dramatic matters than is done. This is a huge mistake. The disproportion between declarations and deeds is enormous What was the expression of this voice of despair of the lady who was a guest is a guest of the Senate It is also about a very specific dimension of foreign policy. I have listened to the statements about this 53 million PLN, but I really do not consist of a set presented by the Minister for such a large sum. We'd expect that amount to be settled. We understand the delicate nature of the case, but the Senate Marshal should receive precise information regarding the settlement of this sum. We must also be sure that it has not in any way been transferred to national centres promoting democracy on behalf of the governing camp, associated with the governing camp, and that it was in no way wasted. Finally, the third thing most of the colleagues emphasized here is the question of the Polish foreign policy's visiting card. From the period of partitions to the period of confrontation with communism, it was in Poland's interest to link its goals with the idea of freedom and solidarity. This was the case from Czartoryski to Solidarity and in the 1990s. It is impossible to effectively defend the freedom of other nations by reducing political freedom in their own country. It's impossible, it's impossible. This is simply a policy that must result in self-insulation. And it's not just the unfortunate things that Marshal Terletki said. Or Minister Ziobra, but about the whole ideological setting up of the ruling camp. This is simply a policy that must result in a reduction of influence. It has been in line with Moscow's interests since Catherine II. Katarzyna II was interested in showing Poland as a reactionary country that was separated from European civilization. The Soviet agent was intent on showing the Polish government in London as backward and reactionary to other Allied governments. This is the canon of Soviet politics. The doctrinal setting of Polish foreign policy is in the propaganda strategy of Russia. If we don't get off this track radically, we're gonna have our hands tied and limited possibilities. And then we will not give real support to the nations who suffer and have the right to live in freedom. Just like us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u204	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the Minister would like to comment on the votes that have already been cast and that he has a very important conversation in a few dozen minutes, I will give him the floor at this point in time to respond to the speeches. The next speeches will be after the Minister's speech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I very much appreciate this openness and flexibility. At the same time, I'm very sorry. Unfortunately, due to the shifts, my calendar doesn't allow... In half an hour. ..to à opos. Senator Klich's comment I have a phone call with my American counterpart. I am saying this in the framework of the discussion on Polish-American dialogue. I can assure you that this dialogue is being implemented, among others. Like this. [[As vice-ministers' talks.]] Among other things. The conversations take place at different levels. I think, Senator, this is not a discussion about Polish-American relations. I'm just trying to justify myself and tell you why I won't be able to stay until this very interesting discussion is over. Thank you so much for her. Respecting the voice of the senators, I would like to address a number of issues that have fallen down here and which are quite concrete. I think it's worth it for the public and In particular, The High Senate learned about reality. Mr. Senator Klich mentioned that fateful Sunday, the day a civilian plane was abducted. Mr Senator, I assure you, we have had from the very beginning a full awareness of what is happening on the plane, what is happening in Minsk. Our activities focused mainly on activity, on trying to exert the right pressure, so that this aircraft could, among others. in a safe way to fly away from there, so that nothing happens to Polish citizens who are on board, and first of all to determine the facts. This is, of course, the law of the opposition. You always have this kind of possibility of tweeting faster, because your responsibility, unfortunately, is slightly different and slightly smaller than the Polish government in a situation where we are actually responsible for what is happening. But I would like to assure you that our actions since early Sunday afternoon have been primarily focused on minimising the negative effects of this event. That's one thing. Secondly, they were focused on building the right coalition in the European Union to respond to this event as soon as possible. The time was very short because the next day there was a meeting of the European Council and there was no point on the agenda of the European Council: Belarus. The 27 countries had to be allowed not only to make this point appear, but also to respond in an appropriate way. Often in your speeches there was a question of the alleged lack of effectiveness of the Polish government, some alleged isolation. It is the decisions, the conclusions of this Council meeting that show how much the Polish government is and was effective in the European Union at the moment. 27 countries in 24 hours accepted in full Polish proposals for conclusions and each country Mr. Senator was Minister, Mr. Senator Bosacki was Ambassador, you all know how much it takes to work, how many calls, how many consultations, how many talks, to wipe out this position. And we focused first on this, not on public information and such, I'd say, twitter fireworks. Of course, it is also a duty to inform you, but we wanted to inform you when we will be able to inform you about concrete actions and concrete effects. I think, in discussing the policy towards Belarus here, that really these allegations of alleged lack of effectiveness are simply unfair. I understand that the opposition is trying in some way to criticize the government, but for God's sake, we have been able since August to mobilize the entire European Union and there are concrete examples of this: starting with the ad hoc European Council in August, starting with the joint communication of 27 countries at that time, and ending with reactions to the kidnapping of President Biden himself from Washington. After all, it is not all happening itself, it is also the result of the activity of Polish diplomacy. As to the reaction then, on Sunday, it was urgent that the Belarusian chargé d'affaires be called. Also the Polish embassy urgently intervened in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Polish consul was in place. Well, it's really hard to charge us for not reacting. As far as the frequent charge of not calling the National Security Council is concerned, I am not the President's spokesperson, but I will allow myself to answer that. I'll remind you, referring to the constitution. This constitution, which we all respect, is one that you often refer to as the senators. She is clear: the National Security Council is the President's advisory body. And it's the president who decides when he needs your advice or when he wants to share some kind of opinion. If you have a need to react as an opposition, there is no need to convene a National Security Council. You can always comment on this type of comment And you're often taking advantage of it. Or such advice to the president. About Kalinowski's scholarship... Because the senator also said that these scholarships weren't enough. I kindly inform you, Senator, that Kalinowski's scholarships were awarded 1 000, in the sense that there were 1,000 possibilities. They were used by 800 Belarusian students. There's still a really big buffer left, despite our activity. But as I said in my speech, we do not want to get Belarusian students out of Belarus, because this is their homeland, they have the right to study there. This scholarship was in case of inability to study and, as Minister Dworczyk said, every Belarusian student who wants to study in Poland has the possibility and additionally has financial support. If we need to increase these finances for scholarship projects, of course we will. Another point is the discussion on asylum for Mr Raman Pratasiewicz. Well, this media discussion, which now dominates, is not a discussion about what the situation of Raman Pratasiewicz looks like today, how to build a coalition to make his situation any better, but is a discussion about alleged mistakes of the Polish government. I kindly inform you, Mr. Senator, that Mr. Pratasiewicz did not apply for asylum, so the dictum on your part, that Poland allegedly did not grant him asylum, is already unfair at this stage. I'm not talking about the fact that they can even be treated as false. Raman Pratasiewicz did not apply for asylum in Poland. A few months before the public learned the subject of oppositionists living in Warsaw, Raman Pratasiewicz applied for international protection, this is a slightly different legal institution But, unfortunately, he did not voluntarily seek this protection, and then, in order to join the group of Mrs Swielana Cichanouska in Vilnius, he left Poland. The procedure was therefore irrelevant. I must say, Senator, that I strongly disagree with your opinion that if he had this asylum, today he would be free, today his situation in Belarus would be completely different. Well, it seems to me that this is too far-reaching a belief in compliance with international law by the Aleksandra Lukashenka regime. I don't think that's the way. It is not by discussing the legal measures that Raman Pratasiewicz had in Poland during this several months, that we can today lead to his dismissal, just by building international pressure, through sanctioning policy. What the Government of the United Right is really doing is raising international interest in the wider Euro-Atlantic world. You're not here... [[Aren't you gonna be late for this conversation, Minister?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, I have a call in 15 minutes. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, please...]] [[I'm really glad that...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, please calm down.]] I have to say, I'm surprised. Well, I'm being honest. I'm here for a discussion to clear up some issues, and you're allowed to make comments like this. It's very sad. [[I'm letting myself do what I can...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, please calm down.]] [[The voice from the hall: Let him speak, make himself uncomfortable.]] [[I'm asking for peace on this side as well. I'm asking you to calm down.]] Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your... There's no longer a senator who mentioned the Zaleshans. This is indeed a very important issue, and we needed some kind of value for this subject. For many years the Third Republic was forgotten, but it was true that innocent people died then, innocent children and women died. I, too, am very pleased with the necessary and important gesture that you have made to the President. Senator Kwiatkowski said Sort of apologizing a little bit about the delusion that Alexander Lukashenka could change. I understand the rhetorical layer of this argument, but I think it's worth clarifying. It is clear that civil society in Belarus should be supported, but I do not share your opinion that we have been deluded as to the possibility of democratisation of Alexander Lukashenka. We as the Government of Law and Justice from 2015 to 2020 have tried to pursue a real policy, absolutely never having any illusions that Alexander Lukashenka will be a democrat. In a situation where it was open to cooperation, in which we were able to build some means of impact on Belarus, we did so. The result of this was, among others. granting one million visas to Belarusian citizens. Thanks to this atmosphere over these few years it was possible to obtain not only the protection of the Polish heritage, but also the issue of a million visas. A million citizens of Belarus crossed the border and saw what Poland looked like Not on a TV screen, not on a propaganda Belarusian TV, but in reality. Some went to Lithuania and saw the difference. In my personal opinion, this investment also resulted in the fact that these people, especially young people, wanted a little different Belarus. Well, they could compare it with another reality, because earlier their idea of Poland and Lithuania was that we are actually in a much worse situation. That investment... We were often criticized for trying to maintain relations with Belarus in any way... [[I wasn't directing it to anyone.]] Sure, but I'm telling you what kind of relationship was behind that policy. Senator Bosacki's accusation of a lack of strategy... Well, I think in this long speech, however, I have pointed out that we are acting according to a strategy, but by nature, Senator, this cannot be a strategy that is public. We can't say what we're going to do to Alexander Lukashenka today. I think we can agree that this kind of action would actually be counterproductive. On the one hand, there are restrictive measures, on the other hand there is a positive programme. And I very much respect this donor conference that you did for civil society at the time. The economic agenda is not for civil society. It's the support it's already getting. The European Commission allocated EUR 20 million to this support, also thanks to Poland's procedures. Yes, this programme is a kind of positive plan for future Belarus. The point is to make sure that the Belarusians are sure that if they take their chances, if they want to change, they will not be left alone or put on the line after this change. I think it was worthwhile to clarify that. I agree with some of the words that came out here. The fact that we need a lot of hard work, and that we as Polish diplomacy are doing this work as a Polish government. Even if we are not often able to focus on publishing or tweeting, I assure the senators that we are doing this. Again, I am so sorry to have to leave you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm very short... Indeed, as Bogdan Klich mentioned, I have been chairing the European Parliament delegation on relations with Belarus for five years, and for this reason I have some experience. Experience from the fact that if we are talking only about the past and the present, and we are not looking at the future, we are not able to succeed. I only have one request for your marshal at the moment because of the Minister's leaving the room. I ask that the Senate again call for the University of Belarus to have a chance to take place in Warsaw with this initiative by Mr Milinkiewicz. In the Senate hall, three different characters fell out of their mouths. Last time I checked, Mr. Gowin's deputy prime minister. supplies with specific support. This support is still illusory. Today I would like to ask for a long-term policy in which institutions such as the University of Belarus will have the support of the Polish government and our institutions, while at the same time ensuring that the government pursues politics in the long term, and not only on an ad hoc basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal, I would also like to strengthen the request of one of the debaters and ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide information in writing on how these funds have been or will be spent from the envelope of fifty-million zlotys for the programme "Solidarni z Belorussia" ("Solidarni z Belorussia"). [[The motion was for a marshal. He's the marshal who's about to get acquainted.]] Yeah, yeah, but I'm adding to that it's... I'm asking that this be written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u210	So, for the record, Senator Bogdan Klich has requested that the Ministry or the President of the Council of Ministers prepare written information on the spending of 50 million PLN for assistance to Belarus. [[For the "Solidarni" programme with Belarus.]] For the "Solidarni" programme with Belarus. [[Fifty-three.]] PLN 53 million. The discussion is closed. Thank you so much for giving the Senate the information. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 24 to 18 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u211	Please take your seats... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I hear there's a problem with the remote connection... It's a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 30 to 18 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, the next Senate meeting was convened on 16, 17 and 18 June 2021. The order of business of this meeting has been provided to you by electronic means. It's quite abundant, and it can still be completed. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senate Act No 418 A. In the first place, votes will be held on the amendments tabled and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 introduces the principle in which the remuneration of the medical worker who has raised his professional qualifications is to be modified accordingly from the month following the documentation of the new qualifications. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the senators on the remote... See if he sent a voice. Please state the results of the vote... This will probably be the least number of votes at the end of the plenary session that has happened to us since the beginning of this term of office. The votes were 97 senators, 53 votes 43 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment 2 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 3 gives a new wording to the annex to the Act, increasing the working rates for all the groups of medical professions listed therein, separating the category of nurse and midwife with the title of: Bachelor's degree in nursing or midwifery, and adding 2 new categories: Medical Rescue Officer with the title: Rescue Bachelor and Medical Rescue Officer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes 43 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 25th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Senator Aleksander Swed was the first to make his statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address my statement to the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Dear Minister, I ask you to lean over very important for the local community, living in the largest district of Lower Silesia, the Kłodzki district, the case of a renewed attempt to abolish the Department of Labour in the District Court in Kłodzek. The first sample took place in 2015. By decision of the President of the District Court in Świdnica, this department was to be liquidated and the judge's position transferred to the District Court in Ząbkowice Śląskie, which in the area of the Kłodzki district met with strong opposition to the public opinion. In view of this situation, I immediately intervened in November 2015 at the Ministry of Justice. The arguments that were given at that time are still valid. The liquidation of the Faculty of Labour in the District Court in Kłodzek would become extremely cumbersome for the parties to the proceedings, and commuting from the remotest cities in the Kłodz district, as well as from poorly communicated mountain villages, would involve huge complications and problems. Following in-depth analyses on my initiative on 7 December 2015, a press conference was held with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Patrick Jakim, during which local government officials and residents were informed that the Department of Labour in Kłodzek was staying. Unfortunately, after 6 years, despite the permanent activity of the 4th Department of Labour in the District Court in Kłodzko, the intention to liquidate this cell has returned. Once again, local authorities and the community protested in solidarity. Therefore, in view of the well-being of the people of my region, I ask the Minister to reconsider the issues presented and to maintain the 4th Division of Labour at the District Court in Kłodzek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u213	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sending my first statement to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, through the Prime Minister, and it concerns the price of fuel at stations mainly Orlen in Koszalin and surrounding areas. As is well known, Orlen is today a monopoly in the fuel supply market for citizens, both in the retail and wholesale parts. It is through wholesale prices that influence price formation in other stations than Orlen stations. The common knowledge is that the fuels in Koszalin, both petrol and diesel, are on average more expensive than at stations located several dozen kilometres from Koszalin, even on such small ones as Rzeczewka w człuchowskichowskim, o 30. 40 gr per litre. I therefore ask the President of the UOKiK to take measures to protect the residents from the monopolistic practices that Orlen applies to the inhabitants of Koszalin and surrounding areas. This is my first statement. And a second statement that I would like to address to the Minister of Infrastructure, which today is competent for maritime affairs. I would like to ask him about the condition of Polish Maritime Shipping based in Szczecin. Because for a long time I have been informed that the financial condition of the PZM group is bad and that the PZM puts ships at the disposal of the group for sale. Two months ago, I heard two of them were already sold. Next, Olza and Narew are put up for sale through a Greek broker. I'm getting information that the proposed price for them is $6 million, and I'll remind you that building new units of this type is costing approx. $22 million. These ships are relatively new, so I would like to know if the Minister of Infrastructure, and especially Minister Grybarczyk, who comes from Szczecin, spoke so much about the maritime economy, the care of the government just about the maritime economy in Szczecin, is aware of the very poor financial condition, and what actions the government intends to conduct in this case Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-10-senat-25-1.u215	Thank you very much, senator. This list of statements has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 25th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 25th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 46]]
