ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 3.30 p.m., - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Infrastructure Commission, at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Economics and Development together with the National Defence Commission - h.m. 16, - Culture and Media - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 4:30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 17, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 18, - Senior policy together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 18, - Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour 19, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 19. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group will also meet. University of the Third Age. This meeting will take place from time to time. 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u2	Thank you. Members have made their formal submissions. Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to make a formal proposal. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I informed the Prime Minister yesterday, as the Civic Coalition Club, we once again demand a solid debate on the government's strategy in the fight against COVID. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! You've been traveling a lot lately, but I don't think you've noticed we have 526 casualties today. These are other human beings that you have on your conscience just because you don't present any coherent strategy. [[Applause]] You can talk a lot, but you can't implement the recommendations of your own Medical Council. Prime Minister! Time's up. Prime Minister, this is no time for you to present more PR games. It's time to listen to the experts. You are responsible not only for internal security, but also for the health and life of Poles. And today, at this point, you should present a combat strategy (the bell) with the COVID. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u4	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz... [[Is it possible to conclude otherwise?]] Oh, here you go, with the opposite motion, Mr. Marshal Terlecki. [[Voice from the room: But there are no opposites here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm making the opposite motion. [[But for what?]] Well, if we were to introduce sharpenings now, Mr. Budek would come out here, to this speaker and say that they are unnecessary. [[I didn't...]] This is exactly the situation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: As it is said, Boris plowed.]] [[What was the mode? It was Masha mode, I think.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u6	Thank you. Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050. I would like to make a formal request, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a recess until the government has submitted an urgent bill on the right of employers to check information. have been vaccinated by workers or have their current coronavirus test results. [[Applause]] By the way, I'd like to ask the marshal what happened to the parliamentary draft of a similar bill. If we have a war situation at the moment, it is undoubtedly about fighting a pandemic. Human losses are war. Poland is an infamous position in the top five countries of the world in terms of the number of people who died last week. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: 28th position.]] There is no political purpose that would justify passiveness and omission in the cause of (the bell) stopping the death of our compatriots. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u8	Thank you very much. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 195 - for, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal request from Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u9	On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I make a formal request to postpone the proceedings until Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobra have presented information on the results of an investigation into the alleged crime committed by Minister Łukasz Meiza's Deputy Minister of Government. [[Applause]] It is a disgrace that the Polish Sejm will sit with a man suspected of terrible things. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] It's about preying on sick people, dying people, disabled people. The situation should be clarified. Members should be informed whether the press has been involved. This is a Member who has not yet been able to make a declaration of property, who entered the Sejm (The Bell) on the back of a dead messenger, and now... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u10	Thank you very much. First of all, you have made good use of the wording: alleged. Secondly, Mr Majza made a declaration of property. [[Everything's presumptuous.]] As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. [[After all, there is a question about this in the context of current questions.]] [[They don't want to read, Member.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Defenders.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 204 - for, 221 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Last motion, Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 25, Minister Adam Niedzielski said: Surely we know at the moment that restrictions are an inefficient means of reducing epidemic growth. [[Applause]] Give it up for the Minister. It was November 25th. On November 29th, 4 days later, the Minister went to a press conference and informed about new restrictions. I would like to ask: Which Minister of Sunday is real? We'd like to know who to put in court, or the minister who says on Thursday that the sharpening doesn't work... [[That's why you have to...]] ...or the one who's introducing these sharpenings on Monday. [[Voice from the room: What sharpenings? Stop it.]] This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. After a year and a half, we see that lockdown policy isn't working. The policy of sharpening works not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe. It does not restrict the transmission, does not make the health system work more effectively. He works worse. We need to be clear about this. No more sanitary segregation. No more lockdown. [[You've got to vaccinate yourself.]] Just say it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] [[No more funding for Bąkiewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u12	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Niedzielski is in charge of the Ministry, but I am in charge in the plenary room. I am the one in charge of the proceedings, which is why I ask all Members who do not have medical leave... [[Voice from the room: No segregation.]] There are ten Members who have been released. I ask Mr Grzegorz Braun, Mr James Kulesza and Mr Krzysztof Bosak to wear masks. You're in the courtroom, and this is my order. I'm asking you to respect them. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, put your masks on. I address Mr Grzegorz Braun and Mr James Kulesza. Put on the masks, please. I would like to point out to both Members that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. Once again, I would like to ask you to put on the masks of Mr Grzegorz Braun and Mr James Kulesza. Both of you, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: I refer to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and state that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. Put on the masks, please. Mr Grzegorz Braun and Mr Jakub Kulesza continue to prevent the deliberations from taking place. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm meeting. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, please leave the room. [[Voice from the room: Now it begins.]] I ask both gentlemen, Mr Grzegorz Braun and Mr James Kulesza, to leave the room. [[Your marshal, five minutes ago, we were sitting at the Senior Convention meeting and no one was wearing a mask. That didn't bother you.]] [[And you're okay with Masa?]] We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and certain other laws (Prints No. 1779 and 1793). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws, print No 1779. The Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on 26 November this year for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering eight amendments at its meeting on 29 November, asks that the High Sejm reject all eight amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u14	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On this item, we will be voting on proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. Amendments 1 to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Law containing amendments to the Law on the Protection of the State Border. In the first amendment to Article. 12a The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 231 for, 198 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 12a The Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 3 and 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 231 - for, 199 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 12b The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 12. Two and four. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 222 for, 206 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 12b. 4 The Senate proposes adding point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 199, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 18d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 233 - for, 198 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 12a The Senate proposes to add an article. 19b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 222 - for, 200 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments 7 and 8. The Senate reported it to the article. 3 amending act containing amendments to the Compensation Act due to the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. In the 7th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes that paragraph be added. 3 and 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 220 for, 209 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes that the Article be repealed. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 221 - for, 208 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. I'm declaring a two-minute break. That's where we ended the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 26 hours 15 min 29]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on wine products (prints No. 1314 and 1776). I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Pamula to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government Draft Law on Wine Products, prints No 1314 and 1776. Dear Marshal, I was honoured to present the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Public Finance to the Government's draft Law on Wine Products, in print No 1314 and 1776. The Sejm shall meet at its 34th meeting on 8 July in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure addressed a government project to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Committee on Public Finance. At the joint meeting of the said committees, which took place on 21 July this year, an extraordinary subcommittee was set up to examine the government draft law on wine products. The subcommittee discussed this draft law at its meetings on 21 July, 16 September, 11 October, 26 October and 15 November. At the last meeting of the subcommittee on 15 November 2021, 15 parliamentary amendments were adopted, which are the result of comments made by the European Union in the framework of the notification and discussion in the subcommittee, which in turn resulted from extensive consultation with the social side, i.e. social organisations bringing together wine producers and fermented wine drinks as well as universities. This draft law concerns the adaptation of the Polish law to the new rules relating to the common organisation of the market in wine introduced in the European Union, the harmonisation of the requirements for entry in the register of regulated activities, i.e. the register of operators carrying out activities related to the manufacture or distribution of wine products and adopts most of the provisions contained in the Act of 12 May 2011 on the manufacture and distribution of wine products, the marketing of those products and the organisation of the wine market. The Committees on Agriculture and Rural Development and Public Finance, after considering draft laws at joint meetings on 21 July 2021 and 23 November 2021, request the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u16	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first person to come forward is Mrs Teresa Pamuła, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome to go twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u17	Position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government draft law on wine products, prints No 1314 and 1776. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the government draft law on wine products, prints 1314 and 1776. The draft Law on Wine Products is a new comprehensive law which adopts most of the provisions contained in the Act of 12 May 2011 on the manufacture, distribution, marketing of wine products and the organisation of the wine market. It adapts Polish law to European Union legislation and harmonises and simplifies requirements for entry in the register of regulated activities, register of operators carrying out activities in the field of the manufacture or distribution of wine products. The proposed changes reduce administrative burdens and improve the circulation of documents, which will positively affect the situation of producers who want to start the production of wine products in Poland. The proposed provisions provide for the issuing of four regulations of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Eight such regulations have been adopted on the basis of the current rules. The most important solutions are: to increase the competitiveness of small cider producers: quality cider, ice cider, perry: quality perry, ice perry, quality fruit wines and quality honey from raw materials mainly made on their own holding, while increasing the maximum production volume of high-quality fermented wine drinks by small producers from 10 000. And for a year up to 100,000. l per year; allow the production of such beverages in proportion to the size of the hectares of orchards or the number of bees; enable the purchase, up to 50% by weight, of raw materials for the manufacture of such beverages in the voivodship where the products are made, or in the districts adjacent to that voivodship; allow the manufacture of such beverages outside the tax warehouse; exempt from the obligation to approve sanitary establishments, allow the sale of such beverages at the place of production; exempt from the obligation to have a wholesale permit to sell such beverages directly to restaurants and local shops - that is the parliamentary amendment. Provisions on production requirements and labelling of fermented wine drinks have been harmonised. Quality requirements for certain categories of fermented wine drinks have also been raised. There have also been changes in the categories for fermented wine drinks, which will allow producers to better adapt to market requirements, in particular aromatized ciders and aromatised perrys. The rules for entry in the register of wine-producing undertakings have been simplified. The Director-General of KOWR will place the model application on the Office's website. The keeping of the register of wine-making undertakings was forwarded to the Director-General of KOWR. An electronic document circulation system has been set up between inspection bodies within the wine sector. A system for certification of specific wine and vintage wine has been simplified. It will not be necessary to affix an identification number on the label for a variety wine or vintage wine. Authorisations have been introduced under European Union law to remove administrative barriers, including those related to the obligation to provide only the most relevant statistics on the wine market. It is also worth adding that the government draft legislation on wine products was widely consulted with the social side, i.e. social organisations bringing together wine producers and fermented wine drinks as well as universities. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the government draft legislation on wine products in further legislative work, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u18	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibinska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents the position of our club regarding the Wine Products Act, print No. 1314. This is a completely new law. The government party, quite rightly, did not attempt to update the current rules because the changes that are being made are the result of new regulations at European Union level. The law in force so far has been amended several times. A new division of competences has been introduced, the law is covered by different scopes, and it has therefore been decided that this law should be completely new. This law is expected by the winemakers' community in the Republic of Poland, which is quite numerous, because I will remind you that according to data collected by the National Agricultural Support Centre there are 329 wine producers registered. This is a large group that, if we translate it into the number of employees and collaborators... This is indeed true of many activities, as we discussed and discussed during the work of both the subcommittee and the committee. Indeed, the proposed law introduces a great deal of changes. It is about the range of fermented wine drinks. It simplifies, standardizes records. This concerns the issue of entry in the register of economic operators, which introduces this in respect of operators engaged in the production or distribution of wine products, a small number of quality fruit wines, quality cider or quality perry. It limits a lot of such administrative procedures, although not all of them, this is what I will talk about in the next part of the speech. I wanted to say that the work within the committee was almost exemplary and we would like to see other laws in a similar way. The subcommittee gathered several times. The social side has been heard. Very many comments, which we as members of the subcommittee have gathered among the cooperating operators, wine producers, have been taken into account. At this point, thank you very much to the lubuskie winemakers, whom I had the pleasure of meeting, to mention. Some of them were taken into account during the work of the subcommittee, for which I thank you. So that indeed the work on this government project was very, very correct when it comes to the legislative process. I think the vote will show that, in such a way, the bill can pass almost unanimously, as happened at the joint meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Public Finance. I would only mention a few comments. Namely, winemakers reported e.g. such that some deadlines are unrelated to the wine calendar and fall out when they are most busy. And this is where the minor changes were made, although not all of them were proposed. Perhaps we will work on this so that we do not hinder or simplify procedures and that some changes in deadlines are made. I think the very important thing that has already been mentioned here is to introduce the possibility of such small sales. The winemakers reported that they produce small quantities of wine, but in order to sell their products, they have to use intermediaries, i.e. wholesalers, which threatens, but also causes them not to be able to promote their products. Two amendments have been made that allow small wine producers and farmers who also produce wine products to sell directly to restaurants, bars and local shops. And this is a very good solution, because it is also a promotion (the bell) of local products. One thing to mention is the matter of excise duty. We suggested and mentioned that when it comes to, for example. quality fruit wines should be introduced in a different category as regards excise duties. However, this is due to the fact that there are no such rules in Europe. In both the work of the subcommittee and the committee, we called on the Commissioner for Agriculture. Thank you very much, Member. We're giving him this job to do. The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of these provisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u20	Thank you very much. We're gonna hand it over to the commissioner, and everything's gonna be okay. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir. Good morning. You look nice today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u21	Good morning. Thank you very much, and so is the marshal. Nice to meet you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the draft law on wine products contained in print 1314. Indeed, it is a law that was long awaited throughout the industry, because it is clear that the wine industry in Poland is developing. Of course, we are probably far from such countries as Spain, Portugal, France and Italy, which are indeed a power in terms of wine production. On the other hand, this law introduces solutions similar to those in the European Union and gives the opportunity to develop the entire industry. We note that this law introduces the 2013 European Parliament regulation into Polish law. The Act also regulates a number of provisions which have so far been very unclear and have caused interpretation difficulties. One thing is certain that this law makes Polish law similar to that which operates in the European Union. What's causing this? First of all, the situation of small producers of wines, ciders, fruit wines and drinking honeys is improving. On the basis of this law, if it is adopted, it will be much easier to start this activity. The second thing is the issue of production volume. The Amenities Act introduces to the level of 100,000. And wine a year. This is a record, which is also very important, because all these entrepreneurs who will produce up to 100,000. I, will be treated as small producers and will be able to use the provisions of this law. Of course, in Poland at this moment we have 230 wine producers and only a few who exceed this threshold, so this is certainly an opportunity to develop additional players, create new jobs and this will undoubtedly lead to the development of local producers. The law, and these are very good records, regulates the procedures related to the production of these beverages, the production of wines. Finally, vineyard records will be entered. So far she hasn't been there, and so there have been problems with what wine is produced from. At the moment, the vineyard records and producer records kept by KOWR give the possibility that Polish wine can be produced from Polish grapes. Issues have also been introduced concerning the possibility of selling these products. This is also a very important issue and a significant change. Indeed, today producers will be able to e.g. sell their products directly to the restaurant, excluding licensed companies that deal with alcohol trade, wine trade. This is also a very good solution, which will undoubtedly also stimulate the functioning of this market in Poland. Of course, in all this, the issue of excise duty, tax clearance, as regards the production of wines, ciders, fruit wines, is very important. This is also pointed out by the producers that they want the legislation, in particular those relating to taxes and excise duties, to be clear. To sum up, the Left Club (The Bell) will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club PSL - Coalition Poland in connection with the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law on wine products, print no. 1314. Undoubtedly, the future and development of the Polish wine market should be the concern of the public authorities, including the concerns of the Polish legislator. The development of the Polish agriculture and processing sector is an important element of strengthening the entire economy. The fact that the strong market for Polish wine products clearly affects positive social and health changes among Poles and Poles is also invaluable. There is, for example, a change in the preference for alcohol consumption: from high-interest alcohols to wine and wine products. Polish producers of wine, cider, perry or drinking honey without complexes also face quality competition with producers from other countries. It is the responsibility of the authorities to support them in this fight by introducing appropriate corrections, changes in Polish law, of course within the limits of the permitted standards of EU law. This regulation, which we are debating today, is important for the wine environment in Poland, introduces changes in the scope of, among others. the method of production of fermented wine products, their modification, certain definitions. It is not without importance to harmonise the rules for entry in the register of operators engaged in activities relating to the manufacture or distribution of wine products. It is not without significance that the proposed regulation simplifies the requirements for obtaining an entry in that register and introduces a number of facilitations for increasing production limits for undertakings carrying out their activities in the field of manufacture and spreading, including small quantities of cider and wine, perry or drinking honey. The Act also introduces rules for marking fermented wine drinks with regard to their names provided for by law in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. There are much more important changes, we have a number of administrative facilitations. It is also important that, during the work on this law, there was a broad consultation in the wine environment. As a result, it largely recognises a number of environmental demands, but not all of them, e.g. only producers are allowed to sell wine products online. It is already known today that in this project there is no record allowing the restaurant owner who wants to sell dinner to add a bottle of Polish wine to this dinner. So some regulations are far too narrow. Poland is one of the last two countries in which there are any restrictions on the sale of alcohol online, including wine products. These sharpenings are to a large extent absurd, because they prevent Polish restaurants from selling Polish alcohols online. Foreign companies outside our borders can offer them online. Unfortunately, Polish wine producers cannot offer them. This bill only makes it easier for producers to sell. It does not change the legal status of the whole gastronomy in Poland. After all, most Polish quality wines are sold not in shops, but in restaurants. None of the restaurants that offer online sales today, take-out sales, will unfortunately not be able to offer Polish wines produced by Polish producers. Therefore, as a club, we would like to make an amendment. I will also remind you that 1.5 years ago in the Sejm there was a bill, which was prepared just by the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives. It responds to requests which were received from the Polish producers' market to open the possibility of selling alcohol over the Internet, mainly Polish wine, Polish beer, Kraft beer, as well as high-interest alcohols. Most EU countries have abolished all bans, limits during the pandemic. Poland unfortunately limits its entrepreneurs. This is incomprehensible (the bell) because we increase the fee and make it difficult to sell Polish alcohols online. We submit an amendment to this bill so as to enable Polish entrepreneurs to sell online and fully open it, as well as to facilitate the functioning of it in Poland, and to enable Polish restaurants to sell alcohol online. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, many points of this law, which are here, as a Confederation, are positive. It is difficult for us not to support the facilitation of activities for Polish producers, such as reducing the number of controls, simplifying data collection, placing on digitalisation in the field of information circulation or providing information about plantations. We also welcome the adoption of our amendment by the government, already included, of our comments on the possibility of small producers of raw materials not only from a given voivodship, but also from neighbouring districts. So it's a plus, a good direction. Let's see how this works in practice. We will support this project, but we must not forget a key issue, since we are already talking about alcohol, which is the government hypocrisy that has recently taken place. This is not a direct charge against the Minister, but against the entire government side, because you have recently voted for a horrendous increase in excise duty on other alcohols or cigarettes. Most Polish consumers will feel this very strongly. In less than six years you want to increase the price of alcohol by 1/3 only and only taxes. Let me remind you that we are talking about taxes themselves, and we cannot forget about rising inflation, in which there is supposed to be some proposal, but we are slowly no longer believing it, because this hypocrisy is huge. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you that the government does not provide for the de facto allocation of these funds to preventive measures, so it is only a rude haircut of Polish wallets. We support this bill. It is in line with our program, as long as it makes life easier for Poles. We want to strengthen the Polish economy. Poland is to be for Poles, to be friendly, among others. is to be friendly with Polish producers. This is a step in the right direction, but it will not hide a whole lot of other obstacles that the state has already prepared for Poles, such as sanitary segregation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u27	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. It's a good bill. This law itself is, of course, a consequence of European Union legislation, but it enjoys in many different aspects, most of which have already been addressed. I'll only refer to two, maybe three. It is very pleased to increase the competitiveness of small producers of cider, potable honey or fruit wines produced from raw materials on their own farms. It is important for us - not only for us, mainly for the market - to differentiate the segments of cider and perry, where in addition to standard products quality products appear. First of all, it is important to define the possibility of producing them, ciders and aromatised perrys. This is an important change for the wine industry, even because abroad the popularity of this type of products grows from year to year. They already account for around 20% of the cider segment in Europe. It draws our attention, in particular my attention, to meeting the challenges of the 21st century, namely the creation of an electronic circulation of documents between producers of wine products and the institution responsible for keeping the register. This is a step in the right direction. In this way the Polish Sejm begins to appear as an area of analogue correspondence, one of the last in our country. Mr. Marshal, that's not good. That's very bad. At the previous stage, we stressed the need to harmonise the proposed law with the provisions governing excise duty collection. Unfortunately, this challenge was not met either. The industry signals the need to involve the Ministry of Finance in solving this problem. We're counting on this kind of commitment. This submission does not open the way for local producers as wide as for example. Canadian legislation - is known as the case of Belgian immigrant Pascal Miche, who first proved that tomatoes are fruits and then obtained official permission to produce wine from tomatoes - but for this it refers directly to traditional Polish drinks, i.e. quality honeys. This is one of the many elements that will make Poland 2050 vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u28	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 10 people have come forward to ask questions. Here we go. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in. Are you Mr Adamczyk? There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński. [[Voice in the room: In the committee.]] There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u29	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the article. 13. The aim shall be to ensure that the trader who has been found to be in breach of the conditions laid down in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 or 2, it may have removed those infringements within not less than 7 days from the date of receipt of the call. The nature of these infringements is very different. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how these deadlines will be set. It may turn out that, with such a very rigid and not very pro-active approach of certain offices, such a trader will not be able to remove such defects, which would be to the detriment of both the market and the trader itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Government representatives! High Seym! The purpose of this law, as has already been mentioned, is above all the need to adapt the Polish legal system to all current EU acts. This law will, according to the government's justification, affect about 106 thousand. entities. Among them will increase the number of operators that will be able to produce, among others. bee honey - of 1.4 thousand. entities up to almost 44 thousand. entities, belt owners with at least 10 trunks. I'd like to ask... One of the objectives of the Act, which is referred to as a new division of powers of control authorities. Could a government representative say about these new powers of control authorities towards entities? Second question. Please respond in writing. How in 2019 [[♪ The bell ♪]] and 2020 were the receipts to the state budget from excise duties on wine products in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every law and every statutory amendment that increases the ability to act and entrepreneurship is a good law and a good record. As far as this bill is concerned, listening carefully, I noticed that all of my previous speakers were talking about consultation, but consulting with the wine community. It was also said... The committees that dealt with this problem are the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Public Finance. On the other hand, I would expect this law to be consulted with the Social Committee and with the organisations that deal with the fight against alcoholism. As we know, alcohol consumption among young people, often underage, is increasing well. This law speaks of an excellent increase in the production and free sale of alcohol (the bell), from 10,000. And up to 100,000. I. So, in the Minister's opinion, was there no need for such consultation? And if so, I would like to know how some form of prevention against young people will be applied. Imagine that in every store, in the smallest village, so-called. Mumrot, from the show I remembered that name... Thank you very much. ...which means wine of unknown quality can be sold. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u35	Polish winemaking continues to develop and requires support. I believe that we should still reasonably support wine production, which really has a chance in Poland to become a huge, important branch of the Polish economy, because it can be seen that the wines we produce are getting better and without complexes, that are drunk by the Germans, the French and the Poles are also increasingly reaching for them. In order to do so, we need to open up the sale of alcohol over the Internet, so as to facilitate sales channels, to enable Polish producers to sell not only what they will produce at their premises, in their vineyard, because this project only applies to this element, but also to enable restaurants to offer their dishes with Polish wines or Polish beers or other quality drinks. This opening is necessary. The idea is to stop discrimination against Polish entrepreneurs in their own country. We are one of the last countries in the European Union (The Bell), which has such discriminatory instruments of Polish entrepreneurs. This will also increase your excise income - I am talking to the government and PiS Members here. So on behalf of the whole... Thank you very much, sir. ...to the wine market we ask for e-commerce, to allow the sale of Polish wines online. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The work of the committee perfectly illustrates that this project covers much smaller and larger issues that should be further improved in order to facilitate and improve the work of the wine industry. The observations made on the law, as well as the opinions of the producers directly present in the Chamber, have shown what problems wine producers face in practice. Often, seemingly trivial issues have a huge impact on the preservation of the processing process, as well as problems related to the preservation of official deadlines. It is extremely important to support Polish producers. I would like to ask: What additional measures will the government take to promote and support Polish wine producers? What else is planned in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u39	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two specific questions about the legal matter being processed. This is undoubtedly an important step in the context of the growing wine market in Poland. More and more people pair up in Poland with this branch of the economy. We must remember that winemaking is also connected with the activities of agrotourism farms or Polish restaurants. In this context, Minister, maybe not directly to you, but to the government. Do you plan to help Polish winemakers, in terms of the possibility of obtaining an area of land, for example the one that is in the National Agricultural Support Centre's resources, or any preferential prices, or how to pass on to Polish winemakers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A few of them are in this agency's resources. The second thread I want to talk about is the issue of e-commerce, i.e. the availability of Polish wine produced within the administrative limits of the Polish state for Polish Restaurants, so that they can supply themselves, especially during this difficult pandemic time, in an electronic manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It's a very good bill, giving producers the opportunity to sell their products directly, with the exception of intermediate companies. It's making it easier for them to do business. According to the forecast, this will apply to a number of actors. My question relates to the possibility of wholesale sales at the place of manufacture. Will that be possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendments to the Act were long awaited by wine producers, not only quality wines, but also cider and perry, as demonstrated by their extensive participation in the work of the committees and subcommittees of representatives of the wine industry. The definitions and categories of these products have been ordered, but the Act also contains changes concerning the quantities of wines produced by wine owners, which are very much produced in Poland and which produce good quality products. I would like to ask what possibilities the law provides for these small winemakers to produce and dispose of these wines and what new rules have been introduced. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You could have taken the floor, sitting down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u45	Excuse me? Sitting there, you could have taken the floor because there's a microphone. Thank you, Marshal. I'm on my way. I've got to walk a little. I'm in love with the Member. [[Oh, my God, is that a confession?]] Thank you. There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation welcomes, of course, this law, which extends people's freedoms. On the other hand, I want to ask the government if it sees some ridiculousness in all these limitations. E.g. A beekeeper, if he has 10 hives, will be able to produce drinking honey, and if he has nine hives, but bigger ones, he can't. There were times when cars were invented, and then a boy with a red flag had to run in front of the car, warning people. After a while, these restrictions were eliminated. The question is: Why can we not reduce these limitations at all? Why, for example? Some people can sell their wines directly somewhere in a restaurant and others have to go through wholesalers? The restrictions are completely absurd. We thank you for this type of project, but we demand that these civil liberties be extended. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Can I help you? [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: No, thank you very much.]] Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. One concerns wines with flavor additives or something else. What's it gonna be like in this case? Because sometimes such wines are produced in our country. The second question concerns support for wine production itself. Does the government intend in any way to strengthen the genetics of our Polish vineyards, introducing new varieties or improving those that are currently grown in vineyards? Because these imported from abroad are sometimes not adapted to (the bell) our climate. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a perversely: Is sugar tax also charged for alcoholic beverages? I would like to remind you that it was introduced to us under the pretext of protecting the health of Poles. Is a litre of wine sugar-sweetened with the same amount of sweeteners subject to the same charges as a litre of other beverages? If this is not the case, I would ask for an explanation of the salvific impact on the human body according to the authors of the Act if it neutralizes such harmful sugar, possibly what other conditions have affected such solutions, unless the introduction of sugar tax was not about health. If I could get a written reply, I would be very kindly obliged. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. [[At the committee meeting.]] There's no envoy. Then we move on to answering questions and explanations. Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will explain this to you. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This draft legislation on wine products is unusual when it comes to running it in Parliament. I am very pleased that, for the first time in my rank, the Secretary of State has given me the honour of proceding this project with you at this stage of work. It was thanks to this great consensus and this great, wonderful work of the entire parliament that managed to bring the project to this state. Of course, the issue of the work of Fryderyk Kapinos, who put many hearts into the substantive work on the bill or helped to advise at every stage of the work on this project, was very important. The state also showed extraordinary understanding when working in the subcommittee. The calm process led to the fact that the project gained approval of virtually all clubs and parliamentary circles, because from the club speeches it follows that Law and Justice are behind this bill, the Civic Coalition, Left, Poland 2050 - also, the Confederation in the subcommittee tabled an amendment which was accepted. The coalition of Poland, which is also behind this bill, submitted some comments. One of them is the issue of online sales. I must tell you that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and if we want to change this law in this context, it is indeed the competence of the health department. Of course, this is what we're working on. But it has to be taken into account that this is a sobriety education bill. So as far as online accessibility is concerned, it is a question of how to get out of the situation so that alcohol is not out of control for minors. So it is to be converted. Many of your parliamentarians have asked about this issue, about online accessibility. That would indeed be revolutionary in our market. On the other hand, these conversations remain open. However, as I say, this is the competence of the Ministry of Health and this concerns the act on sobriety education. On the other hand, I thank the Polish Coalition Club also for approving other provisions of this law. As regards the questions raised by your Members, for example, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked about the inspection bodies. So let me put it this way: as far as control authorities are concerned, KOWR, IJHARS and PIORIN will have all the data. Mrs Fabisiak, on the other hand, asked about Polish product, prevention, i.e. the issue of sobriety education. This is where the contradiction is, because on the one hand some of you would like to sell online, and on the other hand other parliamentarians are asking about prevention. Prophylaxis is functioning on an old basis today, so if we were to go out to consumers and sell these alcoholic products online, we need to think about strong prevention. Many of your parliamentarians at the stage of work on this law also asked about advertising, why we cannot advertise alcohol of this type. The point is to go beyond just beer. Here, too, we are bowing to the law on sobriety education and competence of the Ministry of Health. Mr Jacek Tomczak also asked about selling alcohol online. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked for further plans. I hope that we will be able to respond in writing on these plans in detail. This law is certainly a very important step and consensus with regard to direct sales in terms of reducing administrative burdens in terms of the sale of wine products. Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek asked about sales volume at the place of production. Up to 100,000. I a year - this is the size that the legislator proposes. Mrs Beata Arrow asked about the project and the issue related to direct sales. Yes, it strengthens direct sales, it strengthens the capabilities of manufacturers. It is also about issues related to the drafting of this law. The wine industry has had a lot of consultations, so it's all done in full agreement. This project consumes and satisfies the people who will indeed be involved in this industry. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke supports, for which I thank you very much, this draft law, but at the same time talks about extending the rules so as to further facilitate these rules in order to simplify them. Of course, that's our role. The deregulation committee was also set up to simplify these rules. On the other hand, this provision, as regards direct sales, is very important in agreement with the latter project. It is also adopted in a great consensus as regards the Sales Act on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers at local markets, enabling them to do so by local authorities. It's a very important project that somehow correlates with it. Thanks to such projects, perhaps small, single, but made as a package - if we cooperate as these two draft laws show - we will be able to do a lot for direct sales. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski spoke about the genetics of vineyards and asked about it. This is a very interesting subject. I am sure that Małopolska Plant Breeding or other institutes will be happy to take this subject. It is very important that cooperation in terms of the construction of a plant variety defined in relation to the conditions, the terrain, as it was in times quite rightly past... On the other hand, some ideas should be maintained, and not through this, unfortunately, transformation carried out not necessarily in accordance with the conditions in Poland... We should take some ideas, such as those institutes that built specific plant varieties for specific areas. I remember, for example, from my land, such institutes in terms of genetics, as regards tobacco and soil conditioning for these plants, so this is incredibly important. I support this argument in order to start work or continue it in places where the work has actually been started. Thank you very much. If I haven't answered a question, we will, of course, answer it in writing. Thank you so much for being so good, so smart and calm about this bill. I hope that in the future we will also be able to work so well in Parliament. Happy birthday. Greetings. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. As I listened to you, I remembered from high school saying in vino veritas, in aqua sanitas. I think it fits very well with this discussion, because drinking wine and alcohol, as we know, should not be recommended. Water is healthy. Ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur Teresa Pamuła, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the President of the extraordinary subcommittee on wine products from here very warmly, because it is thanks to his determination and cooperation between the government, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health... Because some things were also agreed at the Ministry of Health, as well as with the social side - so wonderfully consulted. The cooperation of all Members on the committee was excellent. All of you should be very grateful. Thank you very much on behalf of me and, above all, Mr Fryderyk Kapinos. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u54	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Please, my fellow Member, for a brief correction, we must communicate somehow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the Minister for the second time. Well, I'd like to ask you to provide information on prevention. On the wine bottles there is a crossed image of a pregnant woman. Do you not think that, given the increase in production, which is good because it is open to entrepreneurs, there should be information that young people, especially minors, are not selling wine? The point is that with the open market, it should be passed to shops with such light control. If you don't think it's appropriate, perhaps it would be useful to consult with the relevant organizations, with the relevant committee that deals with the sobriety education bill? Thank you very much and I would like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u56	The discussion is closed. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the law on the integration and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal validity of certain perpetual books (prints No. 1694 and 1772). I ask Mr Kazimierz Khoma to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the law on the integration and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal validity of certain perpetual books, print No. 1694. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, on 28 October 2021, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for its first reading. The Commissions: Agriculture and Rural Development and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, following the first reading and examination of this draft law at its meeting on 16 November 2021, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. I would like to point out that the draft law was addressed to the public consultation in December 2020. He was consulted with 44 entities, among others. Council of Social Dialogue, National Council of Agricultural Chambers, trade unions, and the Polish Federation of Associations of Property Experts. As part of the opinion, the project was addressed to 21 actors, among others. Commission of the Joint Government and Local Government and Marshals of individual voivodships. The comments submitted in the context of the public consultation and opinion were analysed and largely taken into account. In the course of the committee's work, amendments of an editorial and legislative nature were tabled by legislators from the Legislative Office. Both committees agreed to these amendments. The draft amendment law was unanimously adopted by the joint committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u58	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Kazimierz Choma from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which is the same club Just now, to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the great honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to review the bill on amending the law on the integration and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal power of certain perpetual books, print no. 1694. The draft law responds to the need to improve and speed up the procedure for merging proceedings under the Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land. Between 2004 and 2019 Poland merged and exchanged land in the area of 206 470 ha, representing an area of 12 904 ha on average each year. Experts commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development indicate that a total of 2967 000 should now be covered by the merger procedure. ha agricultural land. The analysis of data in this area concerning some countries of the European Union shows that this figure amounts to up to 3% of the country's agricultural land on a yearly basis, which would mean an area of around 450,000 under Polish conditions. Ha a year. In order to improve the conduct of merger proceedings, it is very justified to amend certain provisions of the Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land. This project addresses a number of problems related to the land consolidation process. Firstly, procedures for dealing with the introduction into part or throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland of an emergency, an epidemic or an epidemic are regulated. This will be done through the possibility of using electronic means of communication to carry out all tasks related to the carrying out of merger proceedings. The Act does not read the provisions on the opening of the merger procedure, nor does it decide on the approval of the merger project at the meetings of the merging participants. This information will be provided on the BIP pages of the relevant institutions that will carry out this process. Secondly, deadlines are introduced for voivodships and administrative courts to deal with appeals and complaints, allowing final decisions to approve the merger project within a reasonable timeframe. Thirdly, a definition of an agricultural holding containing a specific area standard is introduced, which simplifies the verification of applications for land consolidation. Fourthly, the activities related to the determination of the boundaries of the merge or land exchange area shall be clarified. Fifthly, a representative of the municipality and the council shall be included in the advisory committee. Sixthly, an elder shall be indicated as the authority competent to apply to the perpetual accounting court. Seventhly, solutions are introduced in the case of the unregulated or undisclosed legal status of the land in the merge area. After the eighth, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 April 2019, signed, shall be enforced. Act SK 21/17, as regards the possibility of a final decision approving the land consolidation project. After nine o'clock, the way in which the court closes the perpetual book by means of a technical action taken as a result of the notification of the relevant old-timer without giving the court an order in this respect shall be simplified. As you can see from the analysis presented, the government draft law on the consolidation and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal power of certain perpetual books, print no. 1694, is very much needed and the club Law and Justice will vote in favour of its adoption. At the same time, Mr. Marshal, I would like to make amendments to the draft law on the second reading on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition, after having examined the draft law on amending the law on the consolidation and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books, considers that the process of land conversion and consolidation is necessary and very necessary. This is due to the need to establish inter alia. the legal status of the land. However, some provisions of this law need clarification. Firstly, the introduction of a new definition of an agricultural holding with an agricultural or forestry area of not less than 1 ha in practice will mean the application of this provision in the case of the use of a number of forms of aid envisaged for agricultural holdings. This will apply to, for example, direct payments, Rural Development Programme, Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, etc. Minister! How much will the number of agricultural holdings in Poland to which this provision will apply increase? These farms will be created as a result of the consolidation of agricultural and forestry land. How much will the area of Poland covered by direct payments increase? Does the government have such simulations? If so, we'd like to meet them. It follows from the justification of the bill that under Polish conditions about 450,000. ha of land per year would be merged. This is due to data on some European Union countries, where around 3% the agricultural land area shall be merged. Poland, on the other hand, has merged and exchanged land in the period 2004-2019 in the area of 260 thousand. ha, which is, on average, a year, as the rapporteur said, 12 904 ha. Experts estimate that approximately 2967 000 should be covered by the merger procedure. ha agricultural land. If we assume that in 2020 the land was merged on an area of around 20,000. ha, you know how many years it would take to complete this process, Mr? 150 years. Minister! Is the government in view of such an ambitious consolidation programme sufficiently structured and financially prepared to implement the consolidation plan? The impact assessment states that the implementation of this programme will not have any financial implications for the public finance sector. Please explain who will bear the costs of implementing this law. In our opinion, the costs will be on the part of government administration, local government, geodesia units and courts. These costs have not been shown in this project. Since the Act is due to be implemented in 2022, how much money has been reserved in this budget? The draft law contains a provision imposing an action on administrative courts to approve the merger or land exchange project within a period of 2 months. Getting that term is quite problematic. The practice so far shows that court cases last for a very long time. Minister, will there be appropriate procedures in the administrative courts to speed up the adoption of decisions as recommended by the legislator? In our view, this term should be extended, it is too short. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill is needed to determine the legal status of the areas included in the merge or exchange. The task is very, very difficult. After obtaining an answer from the Minister explaining our doubts, the Civic Coalition Club will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on the amendment of the law on the consolidation and exchange of land and the Law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books is contained in print no. 1694. The Left supports the bill. We believe that the changes contained in the project will improve the land exchange and consolidation process and will improve the process. There's a chance they'll significantly shorten it. Under the old law, land exchange and consolidation cases were sometimes sluggish. This law responds to these problems which were seen in the case of merge and exchange of land on the basis of the old law. The Commission adopted the bill unanimously. But there's one thing. High Izbo. The government did not try to lean on the project and land exchange between the co-operatives. I'm thinking about agricultural production cooperatives and their members. These issues are governed by cooperative law, as this is not respected at all in terms of land exchange between these entities. The situation is such that if a cooperative member wants to exchange land with a cooperative, a state company can immediately enter and take over the land. I'm thinking of a property agency, an old agricultural property agency of the state, today AriMR. We believe that the government should lean on this matter and lead to the obvious thing. Today, many members of the cooperative retire and want to leave this land in the cooperative, in its use. This is not possible, because even if they wanted to sell this cooperative land, these land is taken over by AriMR. It cannot be that a member of the cooperative is treated differently from an individual farmer. High Izbo! The bill didn't raise any controversy. There were no substantive amendments in terms of issues related to the operation of land exchange. Members and committees have come to the conclusion that this law is going in the right direction and will help farmers in the process of exchanging these land. Minister! I repeat once again that the cooperative law law should be looked at in the context of land exchange between cooperative operators and cooperatives themselves. We'll support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u65	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the government's draft law amending the law on merge and exchange of land and the law on the loss of legal power of certain perpetual books, prints no. 1694 and 1772. The integration of land is a fundamental procedure in the process of organising rural space contributing to the elimination of the development barriers of a given village by eliminating the faulty spatial structure of agricultural holdings. A properly conducted consolidation procedure brings with it a number of tangible benefits, starting with an old town which, after the procedure has been carried out, will have an orderly database in the case of land and buildings records, by a village which, in addition to separating the area reserve from the land of local public interest, will benefit from the modernized network of access roads to agricultural and forestry land and will end up with farmers who, as a result, will be complete beneficiaries of the project and will receive a unique opportunity to increase the efficiency of their farms. At this point, I would like to thank all the regional geodesia offices, surveyors, but also local government officials who were pioneers in this work and did a lot of hard work to make these merges work. The integration of land also offers the possibility to carry out tasks affecting the regulation of water relations in the area, including in the field of small water retention, and tasks affecting the improvement of the aesthetic values of the agricultural landscape. Between 2014 and 2020, together with a 2-year transition period, EUR 423 million were allocated to this task for the whole country. This pandemic situation caused delays because, for example, it was impossible to convene a rural meeting where information was published on the progress of consolidation work. As a result, the regional office of geodesia and local authorities pointed out that it was necessary to finally make a decision to use Internet opportunities to post information in the Public Information Bulletin, because this information could be publicly available, and the problem arose when the meeting was attended by 3 and 4 inhabitants of the locality or participants of the merger, and the rest had to be reached. This is undoubtedly an important and necessary solution. Another amendment concerns the introduction of time limits for handling appeals and complaints for voivodships, administrative courts. I'm sure that'll cut the appeal process short. This was also what the inhabitants of the merged areas were waiting for. These changes need to be made so that the rules resulting from the land and buildings records and what is contained in the eternal books are consistent so that they can work together. If we do not introduce these changes, these processes will be prolonged. All the proposed solutions will help to improve the process of integrating land and will result in efficient implementation and thus enable voivodship geodesia offices and stasts to implement more projects that farmers across the country are waiting for, because this is not only land consolidation, but also all those processes that regulate the economy, facilitate land exchange, give the possibility to regulate without act the notarial legal situation of many farms. This is an action of all means necessary and better, let us make it quicker, hopefully more (the bell) we can do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Confederation, bearing in mind the well-being of the Polish village, we support the way of improving consolidation procedures for the land that is being exchanged. Historical conditions have shown that these are often lands scattered at different ends of the village Or the county. That's what farmers want, but what else do farmers really want? In two weeks' time, this will be shown in Brussels when on 13 December, together with farmers from all over Europe, they will say decisively "not for the European Green Deal," or actually a disorder that will lead to the collapse of Polish and pan-European agriculture. The European Union's pseudo-ecological green fanatics, in the name of climate neutrality, will lead to a situation where European farmers will no longer count on both the domestic market and the internal market as well as on global markets in international trade. The European Union can lead to a situation where food prices rise rapidly and our markets will simply be flooded by products from other continents. Today the agricultural environments are hitting the alarm, and the Polish Parliament should also listen to what they have to say. Elimination of cage farming, limitation of the use of land areas, which is also announced. This will have a drastic impact on the productivity of this Polish, but also European agriculture, this production, and the value of exports will simply fall. This will lead to more food being imported into Europe. I wonder if this is the goal of the Eurocrats, or the poverty of the Polish farmer and the conviction of Poles on food from imports, this is the goal of the Eurocrats and these so-called ones. environmentalists from the European Union. Today, as politicians, we should jointly and severally throw the European Green Deal where it belongs - into the dumpster. And the other thing. Let's hope that in the same dumpster of history, the authors of these crazy ideas will end up also. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: You didn't say a word about the bill.]] Because we support her.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u68	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Mask.]] Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This bill does not raise doubts, it is beneficial, of course we will support it. I just wanted to point out that when it comes to the integration of land, it is useful not only for farmers, but also for farmers, because later such overgrown, unintegrated land, when this is a difficult procedure, serve the so-called. the urban planning of the boulevard, i.e. the unharmonious emergence of cities and unharmonious development of space, when the land is later de-flooded, and the cities are growing more and more. So it's not just a country issue, it's also a city issue. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 makes two amendments. This project introduces an extremely short 2-year deadline, after which it will not be possible to repeal the administrative decision. In view of the real provision of the party to the proceedings of the right to court and taking into account the state of the epidemic, the proposed time limit will mean a significant limitation on the party's right to move the administrative decision. In view of the above, it is proposed to harmonise the deadlines provided for in the draft and to introduce also with regard to the repeal of the 5-year deadline decision. The second amendment speaks of what does not merit our approval, namely the proposed introduction of specific time limits for examining the application for approval of the merge or land exchange project. In practice, this deadline will be impossible for the Administrative Court to meet. In view of the ongoing state of the epidemic, the examination of the case before the Administrative Court within a period of 2 months is an unrealistic date, and therefore the failure to consider the case within that period will automatically constitute a finding of an infringement. For this reason, we propose that these two amendments be introduced, which I am now handing over to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u70	Thank you very much, madam. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting a time limit for one minute. Nine people volunteered to ask questions. I'm closing the list. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. The Member has not returned. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My constituents ask whether, thanks to this solution, too active, protesting against the power of the farmer, this authority will have the right to move through the elders to the other end of Poland. That's what I'm telling you because that's the question I got. I would also ask you to explain how, in the majesty of the law, the succession can be interrupted and the heir is prevented from taking up the inheritance or is forced to replace it with another one, where the value of the inheritance has not been estimated by the party while there are still disputes between the heirs. If I could ask - in view of the interest of my constituents in the provisions of this law, as I have submitted - for a written reply from the Minister, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u72	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the bill, most of the plots that were not integrated are in the former Austrian and Russian partitions, i.e. since the beginning of the 19th century. Why is the whole procedure taking so long? In addition to the solutions proposed by the government, can this procedure not be simplified even more? I would also like to ask what the situation in Pomorskie voivodship is about the integration and exchange of land. How big is the problem and when will the parcels of willing owners be integrated? And last question: Is there money in the budget reserved for geodetic departments in municipal offices and administrative courts? It's going to be a really complicated procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Even though some cannot accept it, our world is on the brink of a climate disaster. This is most felt by farmers who are already suffering losses and are suffering from sudden weather changes. I believe that the amendment of the article. 1 by emphasising the new consolidation objective, which is to protect the land against climate degradation, is appropriate. The government is just running away from the problem. If there are comments and doubts during the consultation, then there is a need for discussion and an in-depth analysis of the proposed solutions and their legal implementation. A wise government is one that is the wisdom of others, in this case specialists. Does the Ministry intend to take account of the revision of the Article in the course of the work on this project. 1 with comments submitted by the scientific community - the Polish Land Classifiers Association and the Polish Geodetists Association? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u77	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a technical question about the bill. In the eighth amendment concerning the amendment of the article. The 31th Law on the integration and exchange of land is about informing the public about land consolidation activities. The time limit has been set at least 7 days before the date of the action, the time limit for the execution of the action. I wanted to ask, however, if this is not too short a time, because it is very often related to responsibilities. The exemption and participation in such a procedure is linked to the need to waive professional or other obligations. But shouldn't this term be extended? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u78	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The use of electronic means of communication in carrying out tasks related to the carrying out of merger proceedings is a necessary solution. The ongoing pandemic has shown that, as in the case of e.g. The Code of Commercial Companies with regard to the remote treatment by companies' authorities must have standards to allow mergers to be carried out regardless of the ongoing pandemic. The time for this amendment is right. Why is it only two years after the outbreak that you bring this project to the table? The most fundamental regulations for you have been pushed by nights in violation of all procedures, and the rules that can really serve citizens because of the ongoing pandemic had to wait so long. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the reason for such a long delay? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u81	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On the occasion of this draft law on the integration of land and the functioning of perpetual books, I wanted to raise the problem of the time of making entries in perpetual books. He's diverse in different places, it's up to the court. There are places where this happens quickly, let's say within 2 months, if you can say it's fast. But in many places it takes 8, 11 months, often a year. And a reasonable and efficient deadline for listing in perpetual books is an important issue in terms of economic turnover is an important issue for the economy. I wanted to ask government representatives how the resolution of this bill would affect the time of entering in the eternal books. The delays are mainly due to the lack of a sufficient number of referenda in the relevant judicial departments. Are the ministries aware of this and planning any measures to improve this situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u82	Thank you very much. Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. I don't think I see an MP. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! An important element of this law is the socialisation of the consolidation process proposed in the article. 10, which states that the merging land estimates and develops a consolidation project authorised by the surveyor's old man. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 is the committee appointed by the governor. Here, a representative of the municipality and the representative of the Council or a representative of the Council of the village which are covered by the programme is added. I believe that this is a good solution because it can eliminate social tensions, especially when it is the subject of this committee. I wanted to ask you and ask you for a written reply: How many years have you had? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The land was merged in Poland, Wielkopolska and Gniezno County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, late, but very welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u85	Dear Marshal, Thank you so much for welcoming me. Dear Minister, I wanted to ask, first of all, what are the measures for the next year resulting from support for the consolidation of the land for the next year and for the following years. However, if the programme is to be effective, it must be supported by financial means. Secondly, we know that in the future financing of the common agricultural policy, the Marshals' offices are being deprived of this programme, which has been successful for many years. It was the marshal's offices that had full infrastructure, and above all those responsible at regional level for the integration of the land. Now it's supposed to be a centralised program. I'm afraid it will affect the results. Third thing: How do the elements of land consolidation look broken down into voivodships? How do you evaluate the whole integration process into the different regions (Dzinek) in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u86	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Krzysztof Cięóra. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you all so much for the interesting discussion. I think we agree in a direction on the substance of the changes to the provisions of this law, which, I will remind you, has been in force since 1982. It's a bill that we're updating. Maybe I'll start at the end. Mr Borys asked what area of consolidation and land exchange has taken place in recent years. I can say that this is going, it seems, quite dynamic, especially in recent years. The leader, when it comes to consolidation, is the Lublin Voivodeship - 52 thousand. Ha, Podkarpackie - 33,000. Ha, Podlaskie - 31 thousand. ha, then Małopolskie - 29 thousand. ha, Silesian - 20,000. ha and Lower Silesia - 18 thousand. ha during this period. The next voivodships are under 10,000. ha merge. I am talking about the period 2004 and 2020, I would like to warn you, that is, since the entry into the Union. Members of the Civic Coalition have asked questions about financial resources. That money's secure. On average, on the basis of statistics from previous years, the cost of consolidation was about PLN 100 million per year. For next year, for 2022, we have managed this amount. In addition, in relation to this amendment and to the predictions that the interest in consolidations may increase, we have additionally managed, secured 137 million euro by 2027, which is why we have additionally moved this money in a situation where it will need to be. With regard to the question whether we have funding for the various stages of this process. That's the amount that's exhausting it. It is worth noting that it is the municipalities that are conducting this process, but the old-fashioned ones. As far as money is concerned, this budget consumes the administrative process, i.e. all the issues related to administrative proceedings in the course of this process, as well as the further benefits resulting from the consolidation process, i.e. various types of changes in documents or investments on land, which include the area of consolidation. The question is, will we be able to complete the plans that are set up for the next few years? I'd like to remind you that the merges are on request. This is not a government initiative. We can create an environment that helps. And it is this novel that aims to help, to accelerate the consolidation process in Poland. On the other hand, the merger is based on a request from interested parties, i.e. 51% owners, land users to which this area is intended to apply. This law - it is also worth noting - is making a very important, important change. The point is, it's a user of this land, that is, a farmer, who, for example, is a farmer. leases on its territory, may also be included in this group 51% applicants who take the initiative to implement this process. Mrs Niedziela of the Civic Coalition also asked about the issue of this 1 ha, which is detailed in this novel law, whether the persons who are mentioned and who qualify for this process will also benefit from other benefits or other forms of state support for agricultural activities. No, it's not. This applies only to this law and only to this consolidation process, i.e. persons with an area of at least 1 ha, an agricultural or forestry area, may take part in administrative proceedings concerning this merger, but may not apply for any grants or any other advantages which are granted to farmers or owners of agricultural land. There were also questions as to whether, as a result of this procedure, one farmer would be moved from one place to another, the municipality or the district. Absolutely not possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Suchohan asked if 7 days would be sufficient to inform the community meeting that is taking part in this action. Yeah, I guess so. This is a date that has already been in force, which has already been in operation, which has been applied in this law since 1982. This recipe seems to have worked, too. He also offers the chance to lead this process in a dynamic way. Why not just now? So why isn't this included in the so-called. COVID laws? We, as the Ministry of Agriculture, made such proposals, the initiative on our part took place, but it did not gain the approval of the committee or the Sejm and then focused on others - perhaps more important - in the opinion of Members or some of the Members. With regard to issues relating to entries in perpetual books, this provision was consulted with the Ministry of Justice, and our interpretation is that this applies to rural areas where, in the case of such proceedings, these queues or these extended proceedings do not meet - it is this area, this parcel - because this is something completely different from those concerning ongoing proceedings in development or construction matters. These are completely different procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I've answered all the questions that have been asked here. If not, we will answer some of the questions in writing. We are, too, at your disposal, if you think of any other question, any other doubt. Of course, we will respond on an ongoing basis and they will be directly addressed to you. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u88	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure (Prints No. 1344 and 1691). I would very much like to ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code, print No. 1344 and 1691. I would like to remind you that the proposal provides for solutions aimed at improving and clarifying the existing rules in the Civil Code, namely the interruption and suspension of the limitation period as a result of the initiation of mediation or the submission of a request for a settlement attempt, an institution of exploitation, the liability of adult tenants' children for the obligations of parents under the lease agreement. The Commission, after considering the government draft law at its meetings on 10 August and 16 November 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. From this point on, I would like to thank all Members for their participation in the work of both the subcommittee and the committee. I would also like to inform the House that the Ministry of Justice has taken into account social demands and an amendment has been introduced to regulate the issues raised by social organisations. Well, the parliamentary life and the High House is that we're probably gonna go over it again in committee. That's the way it is. We want this act to be, so to speak, the best possible act, and all political forces are trying to do it. High Seym! On behalf of the committee, I request that the High Sejm adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u90	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first person to speak will be Mr Grzegorz Lorek, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, who has already been known to us. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code, No. 1344 and No. 1691. The draft provides for the introduction of solutions to improve and clarify the existing legislation in the Civil Code. We have a few issues that cover this project. Namely, these are: interruption and suspension of the limitation period due to the initiation of mediation or the submission of a request for a settlement test, an institution of exploitation, the liability of the tenant's adult children for the obligations of parents under the lease agreement and the last question related to Article. 159 Civil Code, which, in our opinion, constitutes a breach in the transfer of land to a agricultural production cooperative. This provision is of little practical importance. In addition, the application of general principles and the requirement of a notarial act will contribute to increasing the safety of trading in such immovable property. It should be noted that there are voices that creditors abuse this institution in order to achieve an interruption of the limitation period. Therefore, where the limitation period is interrupted, that period shall count from the beginning after the circumstances which justify the suspension have ceased. On the other hand, in the event of suspension, that period shall run further from the time when the reason for the suspension has ceased. The Act is intended to eliminate the practice of creditors to apply for a settlement attempt only in order to interrupt the limitation period. This will allow the procedural situation of the parties to the dispute to be clarified and will restore the appeal to the settlement attempt to its original, proper purpose, namely the conclusion of a settlement. In this way, the legitimate interests of both the creditor and the debtor will be protected. High Seym! For this reason, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the proposal submitted by the Government for a law amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code, prints 1344 and 1691, and requests the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As has already been said in the Parliament's Chamber, it is true that the proposal concerns the departure from the existing solution of interrupting the limitation period in the event of a request for settlement or mediation. In this case, the suspension will be introduced, so that the limitation period will be added only and only to the time for which the suspension took place. There is also a solution that changes the content of the article. 688 § 1 of the Civil Code, which exempts from liability for rental debts in respect of adult late tenants if they are dependent on it and are unable to continue on their own. So you will have to meet several conditions to be able to avoid liability under this provision. The draft also provides for changes to the Article. 388 Civil Code. This provision refers to exploitation. According to the project, the victim will now be able, according to his choice, to request a reduction in his/her benefit or an increase in his/her benefit or cancellation of the contract. The draft also provides for changes to the Article. 388 Civil Code. This provision refers to exploitation. According to the project, the victim will now be able, according to his choice, to request a reduction in his/her benefit or an increase in his/her benefit or cancellation of the contract. In addition, the proposal introduces an additional condition of exploitation, namely the lack of sufficient discernment. In this case, it is difficult to agree with this solution. It is unnecessary. The sound so far allows for a broad understanding of the conditions used in it. Namely, in addition to inexperience, there is a compulsive situation and infirmity in the current recipe. The existence of any of these three conditions, while fulfilling the others, allows the application of this provision. According to the Polish dictionary, the term "unexperience" also means that an inexperienced person is an unfamiliar, gullible, untrained, unhelpful, unfamiliar or unfamiliar person. Also in case law, the condition of inexperience is read in the context of a specific type of legal relationship as a lack of experience in a particular type of undertaking. The interpretation of the condition of inexperience in the wording of the provision fulfils the function which, according to the justification of the proposed amendments, is to implement a newly added condition of lack of sufficient discernment. It should therefore be considered redundant. Such extension of the rules does not serve any good. That only makes this recipe more complicated. Another amendment concerns the deletion in Article. Point 1 (5) (a) b providing that after § Article 1 388 Civil Code will be added § 1, according to which if the value of the benefit to one of the parties at the time of conclusion of the contract exceeds at least twice the value of the mutual benefit, it is presumed to exceed it to a gross extent. This solution will be implemented at the expense of a far-reaching limitation of the judicial freedom of the courts, and this should be based on judgment. It is for the court to be left with an assessment, taking into account the specific circumstances of the case, whether or not there is a gross imbalance in benefits. Furthermore, it should be noted that the introduction of a presumption that the gross benefit gap is at least twofold may, in practice, give rise to the view that the conditions for exploitation are not met if the value of the benefit used exceeds the value of the mutual benefit by 99% Or less. It should also be noted that in a market economy, the price difference of certain products is not unusual. Price differences arise e.g. with various types of special offers, sale The draft provides that the powers in the revised Article are to be exercised. 388 § 1 shall expire 3 years after the date of conclusion of the contract and, if the party is a consumer, 6 years later. To this day, we only have two years in the recipe when it comes to this term. We are making an amendment which provides that, instead of the 2-year deadline for all, there will be a 3-year deadline. This is a long enough term. The consumer can benefit from other solutions, e.g. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 385 § 1 of the Civil Code, i.e. abusive clauses. It is also entitled to other benefits and opportunities under consumer law or even Article. 58 Civil Code. This is a very large extension, as it is unjustified. I remember that during the previous term of office of PiS, when introducing changes regarding limitation periods, he shortened them and when I pointed out that they would also apply to consumers, he took note of it, and now in an unjustified manner, because it does not result from any analysis of the draft law, it extends this period to 6 years, please, for 2 years, which are currently in force in accordance with the provision. We therefore amend this draft law, hoping that it will be the subject of a substantive discussion - because such a discussion, rather than a political one, should take place in an extraordinary codification committee, where we create rules that form the basis for the functioning of the legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u94	Thank you, Member. A little bit because we're from Zagląd, I've added you a minute. [[Applause]] [[Thank you...]] Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u95	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the government draft law amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code, contained in print No. 1344, together with the committee's report, contained in print No. 1691. The main changes made by this submission are, above all, the easier questioning of unfair contracts, the more difficult interruption of the limitation period by the creditor, as well as the lack of liability of independent persons, and together living with their parents - will no longer be liable for the rent debts of their parents. Changes in the rules on exploitation are a response to unfair market practices in the form of contracts with similar effects to exploitation, but formally not in application of the current Article. 388 Civil Code. This is about all kinds of sale of pots, sheets or other household appliances with supposedly extraordinary parameters, while their only unique feature was usually an extremely high price. Similarly, the same catalogue of unfair practices includes offering people in difficulty under the so-called "life situation." With the proverbial wall, relatively low loans at a high percentage, and it's under pledge already much more worth property. We also find similar unfair practices in certain franchise agreements, in which the nature of mutual obligations is far from mutual balance. This submission is an attempt to solve such problems and a kind of rescue wheel for the victims of fraud. In situations such as those mentioned above, the weakness of the exploited party is not a weakness or inexperience referred to in Article. 388 Civil Code, but lack of knowledge about the actual effects of the contract. The project provides for an extension of the grounds for exploitation to take advantage of the lack of sufficient discernment. In addition, in the proposed amendment, § Article 2 388 of the Civil Code is extended by a further year from the previous 2 years and, where the party to the contract is a consumer, by 4 years. In addition, only a reduction in the benefit or an increase in the benefit of the other party can be claimed at present, and only if both would be excessively difficult - the cancellation of the contract. Now it will depend on the injured party which of these three solutions will choose. Another solution in the proposed submission is to suspend the limitation period for mediation and settlement talks in connection with the previous abuse by creditors of the institution of a call for a settlement attempt and the practice of creditors to apply for a settlement attempt only in order to interrupt the limitation period. Will the proposed solution actually eliminate this practice and effectively reduce the number of cases affecting the court as assumed by the projectors? I hope so. A further solution - in the case of rental of an apartment, adults living together with the tenant will no longer be liable for the actual rent and other charges related to the use of the premises if they are not able to maintain themselves for objective reasons. Many doubts and amendments have been raised during the work of the committee and the subcommittee, including the social amendment, which has been taken into account. Having regard to the amendments tabled in the course of the committee's work and at second reading, correcting doubts as to certain detailed arrangements, given that the proposed changes are expected and needed and nevertheless improve the situation of vulnerable parties in the investigation of their rights, the Left Club will support this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fact, we are trying together to amend the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure, acting in a very legitimate legislative direction towards those who, in their previous legal order, could easily fall victim to various unfair practices. We are all well aware of the common practice of inviting older people, people who are not fully able to discern how the sales offers of famous pots, various other products offered often very, very much overpriced. Then there's no way... As the case was identified after the fact, after the transaction, there is helplessness and drama often associated with the release of entire savings. Very often this has been the case, so we as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party welcome this project. However, we are also signaling that the proverbial child should not be poured out with a bath as regards those records that concern economic turnover, the functioning of entrepreneurs. But I hope that this gesture of goodwill made just during the committee meeting, i.e. meeting the arguments, the demands of the social side, was not the last such gesture. I think that the amendments, as well as the proposals put forward by the Council of Entrepreneurship, should also be recognised in the course of further work. If the work continues in a spirit of openness, we will have no doubt as a parliamentary club whether we will support this project in the final work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Come on in, dear Michael. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u99	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfair market behaviour based on efficient marketing and directed primarily to the elderly have been a real scourge on our market for many, many years. Wonderful products: pots, woolbeds, fast and unfavorable loans. In the palette of these marketing tools recently appeared artificial intelligence. The popular use included well-configured voicebots that pretend to be people and do so in such a way that they are often difficult to distinguish from the real man. Unfortunately, the common denominator of such transactions is above all the high price of the products purchased, and also very adverse conditions for exit from such contracts. This is a really important problem. This is a moral, social and legal problem, because seniors are often simply vulnerable to such modern sales techniques. They often and rightly ask the State for help later. The challenge is, of course, to modify the content of the famous article. 348 k.c. and with satisfaction we accept the emergence of additional premises for lack of sufficient discernment. This satisfaction is all the more so as it seems that the authors of this right have listened to the legal authorities in the course of the creation of these laws. For the first time in c.c. There is also a definition of over-performance to a gross extent, i.e. at least twice the amount of mutual benefit. It will definitely make it easier to define the so-called. exploitation. Similarly, the answer to the needs arising from the practice is another element of this submission, namely the suspension of the limitation period for mediation or conciliation. And here we are - the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 is very pleased to accept our amendment and acknowledge it. The point is to stress that the purpose of the conciliation procedure is to reach a settlement and not to interrupt the limitation period itself. We appreciate and support the proclient and pro-consumer nature of these provisions. It's a good law. It goes with the spirit of time. Civil law is also influenced by European law, which protects the weaker party to the agreement. It seems that the only disadvantaged social group in some way will be students of the second year of law who will have to define the exploitation phenomenon on exams, and it will be much more complicated than in the current legal state. But that's a small price to pay for these good recipes. Of course, we will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, nine people signed up for questions. I'm setting 1 minute for questioning. I'm closing the list. I ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Government bill amending the law - Civil Code and Civil Code. Here we read that the bill concerns the introduction of solutions that aim to improve and clarify the functioning of the legislation. Unfortunately, the Supreme Bar Council has assessed changes in the limitation of claims as hasty in one word. Minister! Will the views of practitioners be taken into account in this assessment area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I consider it appropriate and necessary to write in my intentions, but is it not contrary to other regulations? Indeed, a person with a financial liability for rent obligations should have certain rights which are not guaranteed by the legal system. A person living in a joint establishment with a main tenant has no rights to control the debt and no formal rights to act as a party to any disputes or negotiations. This is a form of financial incapacity. Doesn't the project oblige citizens to repay debts they are not aware of? And with such a question I would like to address the authors of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister regarding the correct extension of the list of conditions for the use of the article. 348 k.c. On the premise: no reconnaissance. I believe that the word "disconception" used in the project is too general and broad, and in particular it is not clear what lack of discernment is about. The imprecise and subjective nature of discernment or, in particular, the lack of discernment will make it more difficult to command this in a court of law. This will be difficult to verify by forensic experts and will give room for abuse to debtors and sometimes creditors. It is right to protect (the bell) these proverbial cheated old ladies, but this is a general mechanism. In my opinion, this should be clarified. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Proposed point 6 in Article. 121 states that the proceedings covered by the request for a settlement trial shall be suspended for the duration of the conciliation procedure. This raises some doubts. Assuming that the limitation period for the claim would end during the conciliation procedure pending, it may be assumed that the limitation will take place once the request for a settlement procedure has been terminated. Shouldn't the regulation provide for a certain period of limitation due to a request for suspension in relation to the settlement sample, e.g. that the limitation period may expire no sooner than 30 days from the date of the end of the proceedings? Such a solution would eliminate procedural abuses related to the submission of further applications for suspension in connection with a settlement attempt and at the same time safeguard the creditor's interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, a reflection on the amended Article. 388 § 1 refers to the fact that the lack of sufficient discernment of one of the parties as to the subject matter of the contract may give rise to the granting of a certain compensation. If it were for politicians, I think that, in the context of the crazy cost, inflation, both Mr Morawiecki and the President of the Central Bank Mr Glapiński would be recipients of such statements. On the other hand, my question concerns Art. 688 and I would ask for an answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will housing cooperatives have any tools so that this provision, which introduces joint and several liability, can be applied in practice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u110	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. I think we're on duty tonight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments assume, among other things, that calling for a settlement trial will always be a procedural act affecting the limitation period, resulting in the suspension of this race regardless of the purpose for which it was carried out. On the one hand, you want to eliminate the apparentness of submitting a request for a settlement trial as a tool used to extend the limitation period of the claim, and on the other hand, you exclude the requirement in practice of courts to examine the purpose of such an application. I don't really understand what we're really getting at. After all, the change made in this way will be merely a pretense and will bring no advantage, and will in any case deepen the chaos of your governments (the bell) in the courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u112	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Szejna, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the current legal state, Article. 348 k.c. provides that the contract is defective when objective and subjective conditions are met. The objective premise is expressed in the qualified disparate of the benefits of the parties. With regard to the subjective condition, the party accepts or reserves for itself a disproportionately high benefit, it uses for the purpose of achieving this an obligatory position, abhorrence or inexperience of the other party. The bill submitted adds in this directory there is also a lack of sufficient discernment of the other party as to the subject matter of the contract. A new provision of § 1 added in Article. 388, on the other hand, gives presumption as to the grossness of the disproportionateness of the benefit. According to the proposed provision, where the value of the benefit of one party exceeds at least twice the value of the mutual benefit, it is presumed that the disproportionateness of the benefit is gross. The proposed extension shall also include a time limit to exercise the powers conferred by Article. 388, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in particular in the case of claims arising from a contract concluded with the consumer after the expiry of a period of 6 years. This is in line with the Left's philosophy of the purpose of law-making protecting the weaker party, including contractual obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act does not burden young people with long-term rental debts if they are financially independent. On the other hand, a number of accidents concern young people who do not live in the building concerned by debt. Suddenly, they learn that parents or dead parents are burdened with huge debt. They didn't live in the house because they were expelled from it. There's a gap in the bill, and this case can't be solved by the local government because there's no reason for a young man to be released from payment. What's going on? The lease agreement is terminated with this man and he stays on the brink, even though the law should protect such a young man as a weaker person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking if the bill shouldn't be in this particular small point maybe, but it's a very important point completed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u116	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before this project was submitted to the Sejm, consultations were held and it appears from the provisions of these consultations that, in principle, everyone had arguments against such a significant extension of the deadline as set out in the Article. 388, extending from 2 years to 6 years, which is four years. I wanted to ask you what the substantive conclusions were in favour of such a significant extension of this time limit, which you have carried out, that in this particular case the deadline is extended until the age of 6. It must be borne in mind that too long a term carries the risk of changing the value of benefits, including the disadvantage of the exploited one, and therefore, by introducing the term, it is not possible to do so freely (the bell), to decide on anything. In any case, the interests of both parties must be considered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u118	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Katarzyna Frydrych will answer your questions. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the contribution of the Extraordinary Commission to the changes in the codifications led by Mr Piotr Sak and the Permanent Sub-Committee on the revision of civil law, led by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, President, to work on the government draft law amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code. I did not see any political discussion going on during the work of both the subcommittee and the committee. In my opinion, this was a very substantive discussion. All doubts have been cleared up. This clarification of the doubts regarding the proposed regulation and the solutions that I believe will undoubtedly increase the substantive value of the submission. The determination of the grounds for exploitation, such as inexperience or lack of sufficient discernment, will make it clear that both are intended to relate only directly to the subject matter of the contract. In turn, the deletion of the word "still" in the proposed article. 688 § 1 of the Civil Code will result in the elimination of interpretation doubts. The Government Party is convinced that the draft in the Extraordinary Commission's report on changes in codification will raise no problem with the application of the law and reflects the needs of society with regard to the need to protect their rights and interests. I will now refer to the questions that have been asked during today's sitting. Firstly, I would like to draw your attention - to the question of Mr Rafał Adamczyk - to the fact that it is not possible to agree that the fact that the owner, when the property is in possession of a person whose right to land is based on an administrative decision, would not be possible to prevent a time limit before the annulment of all decisions made so far than by submitting a request for a settlement test. Such an argument is precisely an academic example of the use of an institution of summons contrary to its purpose instead of concluding a settlement. This is because it is a matter for the applicant to interrupt the time limit for sitting, and this is not what conciliation is meant to do. It should be pointed out that, as decided by the Supreme Court of 12 November 2020, an action before an administrative body aimed at repealing the decision, e.g. expropriation constitutes such a manifestation, and thus results in the end of the term of sitting. Another type of activity is the example of an action for the issue of immovable property or the reconciliation of the contents of the perpetual book with the actual legal situation. Therefore, there is no risk that the elimination of effects by interrupting the limitation period of a request for a settlement test will lead to some systemic inconsistencies and perturbation related to the duration of the sitting. Referring to the question concerning the article. 688 (1), I would like to point out that this provision is not a new provision. In fact, it was about achieving the goal that is the same as what we have now when it comes to the sound of the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6 Act on housing cooperatives, which leads to a waiver of liability for the rental liabilities of adults for reasons that exist objectively. As regards the condition of lack of discernment, which appeared as a new condition in the Article. 388, it must be noted that the observation shows that the weakness of the exploited party often depends not only on its infirmity or inexperience, but also on the lack of awareness of the actual effects of the contract or the expertise that allows them to be determined. The introduction of the condition of insufficient discernment does not entail total exemption from the need for even prior orientation or assessment of the subject-matter of the contract, but it is for the tenderer to submit to the other party any information relating to the subject-matter of the contract, rights, obligations under the contract, which is intended to enable the counterparty to make an informed decision. In our view, lack of experience is not tantamount to this new condition of lack of sufficient discernment. I've already addressed the issue of art. 688, saying that this is not a new regulation. We also have a similar regulation in the Housing Cooperatives Act. On the other hand, as regards the issue of the fact that we impose an obligation on the courts to examine the purpose of the application, I absolutely cannot agree with that. That is not the duty of the court. Moreover, this is also apparent from the Supreme Court judgment of 17 June 2021 in Case II CSKP 104/21, in which the Supreme Court found in a clear way that from the perspective of the grounds for the application of Article. 123 § 1 Civil Code objectives accompanying the creditor shall not be assigned as devoid of legal significance. Therefore, it is not true that this objective is being examined as regards the submission of a request for a settlement test. As regards the time limit which has been extended, this is the time limit laid down in Article. 388 Civil Code - it is in our view that the extension of this term is intended to guarantee the person who was inexperienced at the time of the conclusion of the contract, was in a forced position or did not have sufficient discernment. I would like to point out that this is a deadline which does not count from the date of the claim, but from the date of conclusion of the contract. In our view, maintaining the existing short term for axiological reasons is undesirable, the more that this person can realize much later than during the two years since the date of conclusion of the agreement that he really fell victim to exploitation, and the point is to protect the most vulnerable citizens. As for Mrs Fabisiak's question, I do not know if I understood it correctly. If I misunderstood them, we'll answer them in writing. But I would like to point out, first of all, the following: if this question concerned debts for debt debts, then this regulation does not concern this issue. On the other hand, when it comes to the question of the responsibility of adults who are accomplices, in my view this responsibility is only for the period when adults are permanently resident with a tenant. This provision does not provide for any other liability. Therefore, if there was a time when a teenager who was unable to live alone was not living with the tenant, he was not jointly and severally responsible for these obligations. It is the case of minors who have been permanently resident with the tenant during the period covered by the obligations. We are not able to prevent situations that the Member has also spoken of, referring to the issue that sometimes there is no knowledge on the part of the adults who have a preliminary view of the commitments that arise at that time. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I understand that the Member wanted to clarify. [[Yeah, yeah, I wanted to clarify.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u120	Did you want something, Member? [[Mr. Marshal agrees?]] Yeah, of course, you have to make love. There you go, Madam President, she will make a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u121	Dear Minister, It's about a situation where a person is checked in, but doesn't live at home because she was expelled from this house. And what happens then? She is registered, and therefore the local government considers her to be a resident. Sometimes you can prove that she didn't live, but not always. Such a person is fully responsible for the rental debt and must pay it, and the local government has no legal basis to cancel the debt to that person. Even if the owner doesn't live... But there is a more serious matter: then, in general, contracts are not signed with a young person who remains without a roof over his head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u122	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! It seems to me that this is always a point of evidence, Madame. It is the court that has to examine whether there is a condition for residence, because what else is check-in and what else is the actual residence in this premises. You have to tell the difference. The fact that someone's checked into the premises doesn't mean they're just staying and living there. If there is already a trial, in my opinion, the courts examine these conditions, especially if the defendant has adults on the defendant's side, but those who are not able to sustain themselves. On the other hand, what you have raised, possibly after you have terminated such an agreement, is another matter if you really want to return to the premises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. I would very much like to see the rapporteur. I heard you asked to speak briefly. Mr Grzegorz Lorek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u125	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for this debate. I would also like to stress for the Minister that the subcommittee meetings and committee meetings were very substantive. I hope that tomorrow's committee meeting will be the same. The House has the right - and it is very good that it uses it - to discuss this project. After all, it is a civil code, very important in our lives. So here's what I'm going to say: I'm really happy that we can meet again, and we can think about it again. I hope that tomorrow's deliberations will give us an even better project, which will already be on the third reading - I hope with greater joy - and there will be no more comments to improve ours, I would say, fellow senators. Mr. Marshal! Listening to this debate, I also wanted to make six amendments, and I hope that we will be thinking about them tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project concerns the introduction of solutions aimed at clarifying the provisions contained in the Civil Code, which concern inter alia. an institution of exploitation. Projectors propose to extend the definition of exploitation to a situation where there is also a lack of discernment of the other party. Such a change is intended to allow the definition of actions which have not yet been eligible. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project, this includes: the so-called. short-term loans, as well as franchise contracts, which reserve disproportionately large benefits from franchisees. The draft also introduces a provision whereby, if the value of the provision of one of the parties at the time of conclusion of the contract exceeds twice the value of the mutual benefit, it is presumed that it exceeds it to a gross extent. What extent of civil exploitation litigation as defined in this project can we talk about in relation to the past 3 years? Isn't the resort concerned that the introduction of such a definition of an institution of exploitation could have far-reaching consequences for business and the certainty of economic turnover? For years now, there have been views that ignorance of the law cannot be a reason for avoiding the effects of agreements and their obligations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u128	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on medical devices (print No. 1764). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u129	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to present to you the bill on medical devices. The President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products, Mr Grzegorz Cessak, who will be responsible for this bill, is also notified to me, and I would like you to allow him to speak, if possible. The aim of this proposal is primarily to implement the regulation, to enable the application of Regulation 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 on medical devices and Regulation 2017/746 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. Both of these Community acts aim to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices, taking as the basis a high level of health protection for patients, users, including small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. In particular, this law determines the jurisdiction of the different authorities in this respect, the information obligations of economic operators, the rules of advertising, the system of administrative penalties. The purpose of this law is to introduce and regulate issues which are possible to regulate, as mentioned above. the regulations leave to the decisions of the Member States, and the creation of a legal framework for the proper and effective implementation of the powers and responsibilities of competent authorities and entities operating in the area of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices in our country. It is within the competence of our country and of all countries that it is possible to clarify the rules governing the supervision of entities marketing medical products in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the introduction of rules governing the possibility of refurbishing and further use of single-use medical devices, the request from manufacturers of medical devices to order the list of devices which have been made available in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the organisation of the participation of ethics committees in the evaluation of clinical trials, how the President of the Office supervises clinical investigations of medical devices, the determination of details of how medical devices are to be labelled in which languages to be specified. What is very important is that countries have been left to establish rules for advertising medical devices and all necessary measures to ensure that this law is implemented, including the provisions of regulations and sanctions for non-compliance with that law. Since the President of the Office for Registration of Medical Devices is responsible for all implementation and he has carried out the entire legislative process and the Prime Minister has authorized the position of Undersecretary of State, as well as the President of the Office, if he can be given the floor... Permission granted. There you go. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u130	Come on in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u131	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the Minister for the comprehensive presentation of the bill, which is of major importance to me as a representative of the central government body responsible for medical devices. The proposed rules will primarily serve the effective application of the regulations mentioned by the Minister, namely 745 and 746 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Those acts aim to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in these products. The President of the Office has been appointed as the central government authority competent in matters relating to the implementation of Union regulations and the authority responsible for notified bodies which certify medical devices. This is a new task in relation to already held competences and implemented on the basis of the provisions of the existing law. It is worth noting that, from the point of view of the proper implementation of the new tasks, the President of the Office should be given the power to request that any information on trade in the product, system or treatment set be made available to him by public administrations and other bodies of public administration. The draft assumes that the President of the Office will be the authority empowered by administrative decisions to classify products in the event of a dispute between the manufacturer and the notified body which certify medical devices, as I mentioned, as regards the risk class in which the medical device should be placed. In view of the challenges faced by the COVID-19 epidemic, it is important to point out that the President of the Office, at the duly justified request of a medical professional, a national consultant, a voivodeship consultant, the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification or the President of the NFZ, will be able to issue, by administrative decision, a permit to place on the market or to use on the territory of the Republic of Poland a specific product for which no conformity assessment procedures have been carried out but whose use is in the interest of public health, safety or patient health. It is important that when carrying out tasks under Regulations 745 and 746 the President of the Office cooperates and exchanges information with the competent authorities of the Member States and third countries and the institutions of the European Union. Harmonisation and international cooperation are aimed at ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices, which is undoubtedly a huge market for challenges but also opportunities. In addition, the aim of the proposed law is to regulate the issues left by the regulations to the decisions of the Member States and to resolve them at national level only. The President will therefore also supervise the advertising of medical devices which have not yet been regulated by law. The project envisages replacing current criminal legislation with administrative fines, which will undoubtedly allow for more effective supervision and better sanctioning of criminal conduct. It should be borne in mind that ensuring that the provisions of the Regulations and of the Law are implemented by establishing effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for infringements is one of the main objectives of this regulation. In this respect, the President of the Office will issue administrative decisions. The draft also provides for the introduction of a provision empowering the authority to waive fines if the event was incidental and did not pose a risk, and the entity, at the latest within the time specified by the President of the Office, the Minister responsible for Health or the Chief Health Inspector, has taken action to remove them and has informed the competent authority of their taking. With a view to this brief summary, I hope that the comprehensive application of EU laws and regulations will maintain high quality and safety standards for medical devices and harmonise the rules for their placing on the market and use on the Union market, and, above all, ensure wider identification of medical devices and their manufacturers, as well as other actors in the supply chain, thus ensuring effective supervision and easier access to information for users on these devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mrs Barbara Dziuk to the High House. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to submit information and a position towards the Government's draft Medical Devices Act, print No. 1764. The aim of the presented draft law on medical devices is to adapt the Polish law to the regulations of the European Union regarding the functioning of the market for medical devices and to ensure a high level of protection of the health of our society. The arrangement concerns the activities of all companies operating in the medical sector. The Act sets out the tasks of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products and the obligations of economic operators with regard to the marketing of such products. The draft law adapts Polish law to European Union regulations on the functioning of the market for medical devices. It is about ensuring a high level of health protection, taking into account the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector. In particular, the tasks of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products and the information obligations of economic operators operating on the market for medical devices have been defined. The most important solutions proposed in the Act concern the fact that the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products will issue administrative decisions in situations defined by European Union legislation. The President of the Office will be able to request information about medical devices, among others. from public health institutions and operators carrying out such marketing or use of such products. This will also apply to the list of custom-made medical devices which have been made available in Poland as well as to the manufacturer of custom-made products. The obligation to transfer, among others, has been introduced. a declaration of conformity, instructions for use and signs and promotional materials of medical devices placed on the market or submitted for evaluation of the operation or used in the territory of Poland. This applies e.g. manufacturers, authorised representatives, operators of medical devices or sterilizers of systems or treatment sets. The responsibilities of the bioethical committees are laid down in the Act in accordance with the requirements of Union legislation. Regeneration rules for single-use medical devices have been laid down, introducing a ban on the use of recycled single-use devices in Poland. A system of administrative penalties related to non-compliance has also been introduced. New solutions are to enter into force after 14 days from the date of publication in the Official Journal, except for certain provisions that will start to apply on other dates. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, we welcome the proposed amendments to the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u135	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When assessing the entire planned law, it can be said that its aim is to increase the level of safety in health care, that it was designed for patients and users using specific medical devices. The implementation of the relevant European legislation aims to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices. Clearly, these rules will apply to businesses operating in this sector. In many areas, the requirements will be higher. The information obligations of operators operating on the market for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices will be specified in more detail. I think that, despite the specific nuisances involved, anyone who is active in this area will be satisfied with the increase in patient confidence, which will be offered a guarantee of better quality and safety of medical materials and, consequently, the services provided. A number of product groups listed in Annex XVI to the Regulation are to be supervised. It goes on for example. o contact lenses, substances intended for use in the filling of facial skin, liposuction equipment or lasers for removing tattoos or hair. As these products have so far been subject to less restrictive rules, numerous procedures can be expected regarding the fact that the products do not comply with the requirements of the MDR Regulation. This will undoubtedly be a problem, but I think that any Pole who wears corrective lenses or chooses to take the treatments I mentioned earlier, would like to be sure, a greater sense of safety when using medical devices. There are many interesting regulations in the bill. It is proposed, among others. ban on the use of reclaimed single-use medical devices in Poland. After the first analysis, it can be concluded that the project seems interesting. It will affect the safety of patients, but it will not prevent entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u136	Thank you very much. The position of the Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Rajmund Miller. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on medical devices, print No. 1764. The proposed law is the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2017/745 of 5 April on medical devices. The project concerns the functioning of the medical devices market in Poland. It aims to ensure a high level of health protection by ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market for the marketing of in vitro diagnostic medical devices and medical devices. The project takes into account activities in this sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. It also contains detailed provisions on the tasks in this area, which are dedicated to the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products, as well as obligations for the transmission of information by economic operators specified in the Act, as the President has just said. The most important tasks in the proposed law - there are a lot of them - concern the powers of the President of the Office of Registration to issue administrative decisions in situations defined by the rules. The President will be able to request information about medical devices from public health institutions and entities trading medical devices or using medical devices in Poland. The obligation to transfer, among others, is introduced. a declaration of conformity, instructions for use, markings and promotional materials of medical devices placed on the market, submitted for evaluation of the operation or used in Poland. The responsibilities of the bioethical committees have been defined in accordance with the requirements of Union legislation. Regeneration rules for single-use medical devices shall be introduced. It should be noted that the use of recycled disposable products in Poland is prohibited. The Act also introduces a system of administrative penalties related to non-compliance. Ladies and gentlemen! The project was submitted for consultation to a wide range of social actors, production, marketing institutions, entities such as the Business Center Club, the General Medical Chamber, the General Pharmacy Chamber. In total, approx. 330 comments, 69 of which were taken into account by the Ministry. I would also like to say about the comments that were most frequently made by these entities. First, the removal of the obligation to inform the President of the Office of products imported into the territory of the Republic of Poland by distributors and other entities which do not transmit data to the European database. Secondly, the definition of advertising of products is introduced. Thirdly, allowing importers and distributors to advertise products. Fourthly, the mandatory content of the information issued together with advertising, the amount and scope of administrative projects. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of attention. We don't have an opinion of BAS yet. We believe that the purpose of the project is right. I think that during the committee's deliberations we will find out what the detailed provisions of this proposal are. The most important questions. Because I found there questions related to the fact that the provisions of this project go beyond the provisions of the European Union project, which concerns the same thing, I wanted to ask you a question. Is that true? I'm asking because one of the parties made such comments. Thank you very much. After examining the draft at the committee meeting, we will be able to present our position on the provisions of this law, because it is very extensive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u138	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, on behalf of the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed Act on Medical Devices is intended to apply the Directives and Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. The project aims to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices. The overarching objective of these regulations is to bring about a situation in which a uniform and maximum level of health protection targeted at patients is guaranteed within the Community, particularly important, and taking into account the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. As medical devices are very specific products, the risks associated with their use can have very serious consequences in the future for patients or users. It is therefore appropriate to introduce regulation in this area. The audit and supervisory role shall be delegated in this respect to the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products. It is an institution with more than 20 years of tradition and it is certainly a good solution that you do not create a new organism. What is new is replacing the current criminal rules with administrative penalties. As envisaged, this will allow for more effective supervision by the President of the Office and shorter sanctions procedures. It is to be welcomed that the draft also provides for the introduction of a provision empowering the authority to waive fines if the event was incidental, did not pose a risk and the entity which took action to remove them informed the competent authority of their taking. This provision aims to avoid situations in which traders or other entities will be punished if the infringement is only incidental. The draft provides for the provision of information on entities and persons selling goods by mail in a situation where the President of the Office does not have information enabling him to carry out his supervisory duties. Taking into account a number of pathologies that occur in the case of mail order sales of medical and paramedical products, such as synthetic llama duvets, magic pillows restoring power in the limbs or potions eliminating restless feet syndromes, the introduction of supervision of mail order sales is the right direction and we must hope that at least partially reduce high income charlatanism. The draft law prohibits the launch and use of a medical device which may pose a risk to patients. This regulation is also to be welcomed. The proposed legislation amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson also requires patients who have been implanted with a medical device to be made available together with this, you may say, a service, together with an implant card, any relevant information provided by the manufacturer of the device and allowing the identification of the device. The product intended for use in the territory of the Republic of Poland is to be so-called. user interface in Polish or in the form of harmonised... In the case of products controlled or communicating with the user by means of voice commands, the interface and commands must be in Polish. This is a good solution, as these modern medical solutions very often communicate with the patient at the moment using voice commands. To make this clear, it is good that a warrant will be introduced for these devices to communicate with the patient in Polish. The provisions are also intended to lay down certain prohibitions and restrictions on advertising of medical devices. From our point of view, the Left Club is certainly not entirely satisfied with these regulations which are proposed here, and therefore, in terms of using the image of people performing medical professions or claiming to be such persons, we will present appropriate amendments. The point is that these specified provisions in point 1 should be detailed. A further reservation concerns the lack of regulation regarding the cessation of publication, publication or conduct of the advertising concerned and the publication of the decision in the places or in the media where the advertising was published. I mean, if advertising misleads potential patients, it should be removed in administrative mode. Despite some reservations that I have just mentioned, we welcome the presented project that implements EU regulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u141	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government project is the result of the need to adapt Polish law to European Union law as regards the functioning of the medical devices market. EU legislation has introduced a number of regulatory elements to ensure the safe use of these products. The development of implementation research and technology requires such an approach, however, by limiting many earlier, more liberal principles. The project enhances the powers of the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products. By the way, this is a literaryly horrible name, which could be shortened quietly by the legislative process. Everyone knows what the FDA is, and there's still a few adjectives that probably don't include that name and that you could add if you wanted it to be complete. The responsibilities of the bioethical committees have been specified and the possibility of regenerating disposable products has been completed. Here I am tempted to share surely only a historical memory - from my 40-year experience of the doctor I remember that in times of the Polish People's Republic, when we were a very poor country, often this regeneration was the only way to help more patients. But we are already at partner level in the European Union and this must be accepted. It's probably safer that way. However, it must be borne in mind that companies producing certain products often use this once-in-a-lifetime to increase their turnover, and this is not always necessary. We have no doubt that the project should be allowed to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u142	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. [[I wanna do it.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Of course I do. The first question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition. [[No, I didn't sign up. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project concerns ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market in the area of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices. A high level of health protection has been adopted as a basis for patients and users. Minister, in vitro funding programmes cost money, and I'm sure you're well aware of that. Do you plan to extend the support programmes of Poles and Poles to the financial support of couples wishing to have offspring? If so, when and how high will it be? It is important that more Poles and Poles are born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u144	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u145	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the art. 55, which concerns, among others, a ban on advertising directed directly at children or in such a way as to persuade parents to buy certain funds. Today, unfortunately, such an advertisement is present. It uses, I would say, the natural tendency of all parents to ensure the safety and well-being of their offspring. And the question is how it will be assessed. The point is that she should be more informative than using the natural tendency I was talking about, because it leads in the long term to the fact that some children, with such far-reaching concern, become consumers of all kinds of medicines, which (the bell) does not necessarily have to work positively on their health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u146	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u147	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Do the provisions of this law regulate problems concerning the purchase of medical equipment and devices via the Internet by persons with disabilities? Some time ago, I intervened in the case of people who, by buying equipment to facilitate their daily operation on the Internet, e.g. White chick, can't count on his refund from the National Health Fund, because in order to get it, she has to be bought at a fixed store. Now, online shopping should be everyday during the pandemic period, and for people with disabilities they are certainly much safer. The current rules allow for the online reimbursement of medical devices that they buy every month, e.g. catheters, dental equipment. What about products, medical equipment that people with disabilities buy less often? Why is a refund not possible in such a situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u148	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 5th project assumes the transmission to the President of the Office of the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Devices and Biocidal Products of names, names, PESEL numbers, residence addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of persons involved in the marketing of products, systems or treatment sets specified in the project. For what purposes does this office need the addresses of these persons' residences, and how will these data be processed? Will the registered person be able to request that his data be removed from the register of the office, which is guaranteed by the GDPR regulations? My question to the Minister, I ask for a written reply, concerns the non-compliance of this project with the European Union Directive on the protection of personal data in force in our country, which defines in a precise manner all administrative units (the Bell) having the right to access and store and process personal data.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u150	Thank you. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish Chamber of Commerce of Medical Devices POLMED drew attention to the multimillion-dollar penalties provided for in the current design for distributors of medical devices for formal errors in the marking of products. The Chamber in its published position expresses its concern that the level of these penalties reduces the attractiveness of the production of medical devices in Poland and will consistently make these companies withdraw from production in Poland. The penalties are up to 50 times higher than those for medicines or food and significantly higher than those in other European Union countries. 15 organisations expressed their opposition to these entries in the position forwarded to the Sejm, inter alia. National Chamber of Commerce, Chief Pharmacy Chamber, Polish Federation of Hospitals, etc. Minister, why was it decided to impose such high penalties? Do you know him? this position, and how will you respond to this (the bell)? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u152	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister about the part concerning the ban on advertising. The aim is to introduce an additional ban on advertising of articles intended for use by persons with specific qualifications. There is no specific explanation of the products involved, but in particular there are no criteria to be met by a person with certain qualifications. The presumption is probably about advertising hyaluronic acid, fillers in aesthetic medicine. But this should be precisely regulated, all the more so that there can be high and sometimes very high penalties. The interpretation of these records may differ for the advertiser (the bell) and the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u154	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ongoing pandemic has led to a significant increase in the demand for medical devices and has forced legislation to change in this area. However, if it were not for the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical devices, you would not even start discussing it. Your draft Act on Medical Devices provides for high administrative penalties for entities that do not comply with the new regulations. The catalogue of these sanctions, their scope and amount are in some cases disproportionate to the type of infringement and the size of the company. I ask you to answer the question, how can you be sure that the rules will not cause concern, e.g. to impose them unjustly, which may result in the transfer of companies abroad and the escape of potential investors, and consequently difficulties (the Bell) for patients to medical devices available on the market. What is the deadline for implementing this law, and why only now? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u156	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why can the Sejm hand out advertising pens bearing its logo, while representatives of the medical trade will not be able to do so? The proposed rules on medical devices do not address the subject of advertising to remind full advertising and do not regulate the catalogue of permitted items bearing the advertising mark of the medical device concerned. The effect is that it will be easier for companies to hand out an electric kettle with all the information they provide than a regular pen. The Ministry of Health wants to reduce queues to doctors, but the vision of a free kettle instead of a pen can increase queues in clinics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u158	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we know, this draft law is to bring our national law into line with EU law. I wanted to ask you, Minister, what powers under this right are left to the Member States. And second question. We are talking about advertising here and I have a short, clear question: What rules of advertising of medical devices will apply after the introduction of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u160	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You are introducing the resolution and supervision of the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products on certain specific tasks that are indicated in this Act and implementing Union law. I have two questions. One thing is related to how many countries will cost new jobs. Are you going to hire additional workers? By joining all these questions, I would also like to ask how much in connection with this detailed supervision, knowing the needs of patients, you plan, among others. support for people with disabilities in the financing of the purchase e.g. trolleys or other (ring) orthopaedic instruments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u162	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer his questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u163	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for your questions. There's a lot of questions. Several topics were repeated in various questions. There is a very clear interest in advertising to various extents, who can advertise products, whether advertising can be addressed directly to children and how this advertising will be implemented. What is important today, the rules for advertising medical devices were not in any regulations and this is just implemented by this law. According to the regulations, as was previously implemented in the Act on the profession of doctor, recently also in the Act on the profession of pharmacist, medical workers are not allowed to participate in advertising of medicinal products and here also medical devices. Therefore, advertising cannot be used which is inappropriate. As a general rule, as with medical devices, with medicines, advertising, any information is directed to specialist staff, and so it will be specified. There were two questions. The first and last are somewhat unrelated, although in substance related, i.e. to products, medical devices on request: What will the funding be, will the funding for medical devices which are reimbursed by the National Health Fund be increased? In this respect, this law does not apply at all to this case, as it is included in the regulation on medical devices on order. In particular, the question was whether any changes would affect wheelchairs. According to the plan of the Ministry of Health next year there will be an amendment, including in this area. When will it be funded in vitro? This is the name of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, i.e. for all laboratory activities, products. Therefore, this does not concern extracorporeal fertilisation in this respect at all. This question is not entirely related to the Medical Devices Act either. As regards the non-compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the transfer of such data, all these records are agreed at government level. Here were discussions about the registration of medical devices by companies that conduct business activities - therefore personal data must be - as a manufacturer, as entities placing medical devices on the market. It's about the rules of supervision. Regardless of this, the President of the Office, overseeing clinical trials, clinical trials of medicines, but now also medical devices, has access to all data from the conduct of clinical trials in this field. There were a lot of questions, and I'm sure we'll talk about that in detail about administrative penalties. They're specific, as you know... Currently, they are mostly replaced by criminal rules and we see that administrative penalties are definitely more effective. As the President of the Office put it, this is an administrative decision. The amount of the penalty must be justified. That's the amount of punishment you can appeal. But at the same time, as the President has made it very clear, the regulations contain precise rules. If it is incidental, if it is fixed during the inspection - it is about those provisions that are broken - then the President has the possibility to waive the full penalty. Of course, we've been analyzing these penalties. In the case of this law, they are at an average level in the European Union, i.e. they are not the highest. Of course, as with many scopes of the bill, we are talking about forks, about maximum penalties from to. This must be very well justified. Shopping online. Mrs Kozłowska asked about these purchases. We'll talk about it on the committee. We'll give you exactly what these records look like. Actually, those were the questions you asked. I think we're going to have a strong discussion on the Health Committee. Of course, these rules are not incompatible with European Union legislation. We have information from the Foreign Minister that they are in agreement. At present, this law is subject to notification. The deadline for its notification to the European Commission shall be 7 February. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation includes new regulations concerning, among others, advertising medical devices. It should be noted that the project contains a number of vague terms. And so on. The advertising of a (medical) product to the public must be formulated in a manner that is understandable to the average user of the product. What is to be the measure according to which an assessment of the advertising material will be made in terms of understanding by the average user of the product? In addition, according to the design, a publicised advertising of a product must not use the image of persons performing medical professions or claiming to be such persons or present persons presenting the product in such a way as to suggest that they are engaged in such a profession. What is the justification for this entry? Is there any evidence of harmful use of the image of doctors or representatives of other medical professions in the advertising of medical devices?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u166	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on medical devices contained in print No. 1764 to the Health Committee for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 13 December 2021. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 minutes 43 hours 18 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Polish Institute of Family and Demography (print No. 1767). I kindly ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present the bill. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the parliamentary bill on the establishment of the Polish Institute of Family and Demography. According to Art. 18 Polish constitution family and marriage, parenthood and motherhood are under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. The resulting responsibilities of the state are specific because they are enshrined in the basic law, and in its first chapter, which indicates their importance and position in the axiology of our constitution. In addition, the Constitution develops these regulations in subsequent provisions, in particular in Article. 48, Art. 71 and Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 72 concreteizes the rights of family, parents and children. On the one hand, for the State it is the duty not to violate and prevent violations of the rights of the family, spouses and parents, as well as children arising from acts of public authority, but also from actions of other entities, on the other hand, it is also the need to fulfil a positive obligation to take action for the development and good life of Polish families. This is a constitutional basis and an incentive to establish the Polish Institute of Family and Demography. The regulations of our basic law correspond to the widely shared belief in Poland. According to public opinion polls, the family has been one of the most important values for Poles for years. We can also say that family and demography are ultimately the two most important matters for Poland, not only for our country, but also for the whole of Europe. There are, of course, many social, economic and political challenges in the field of energy policy, related to the epidemic of Coronavirus, a hybrid war on the eastern border of Poland, the eastern border of the European Union, and perhaps also with deeper geopolitical threats in the east of Europe. In other words, the challenges of the present time are many, but we have reason to believe that we will be able to overcome most of them, in a little bit in a short time, and in any case in a few years. But the demographic challenge seems to be bigger, it seems to have a completely different scale, and ultimately this issue, the issue of demography, determines the position and future of societies and countries, also the position and future of Poland and the Polish society. Demography depends on the situation and condition of the family. Hence the thought and the need to establish the Polish Institute of Family and Demography. It is clear that demographic growth is a key factor in ensuring the sustainability of societies and their development. There is no doubt that without the so-called. Generation replacements over several decades are falling rapidly in the overall population and thus in the labour market, which, in turn, represents a serious burden for the social security system. At the same time, the increase in the proportion of older people in society generates a number of challenges which require adequate economic and personal resources to be met. To this end, it is necessary to guarantee the replacement of generations. In this context, we can talk about the need to take action with a perspective not for years, but for decades, actions that ensure the demographic security of Poland. As statistics and forecasts show, our country's demographic security is at serious risk. The Central Statistical Office already in 2014 indicated that in 2050 the number of Polish population will decrease by 12%, i.e. in comparison with the number from 2013. About 4.5 million. Major changes in the structure of the population will follow. People over the age of 65 will be 1/3 of all residents of Poland. Programs such as 500+ have led to a certain degree of slowing down the number of births... [[That's not true!]] ...also increased the level of financial security of Polish families... [[You'll look at the statistics.]] ...but we have to do more. It is worth noting that awareness of the need to develop a coherent, comprehensive and long-term demographic policy is being communicated and raised by government representatives, an example of which is the 2040 demographic strategy. Appreciating the importance of this document, you should - like this by its authors - to draw attention to the need and effectiveness of prodemographic activities carried out in a long-term and comprehensive manner, as confirmed by the experience of countries such as France, Sweden and Hungary. This means, among other things, that demographic objectives can only be achieved if we are based on reliable and comprehensive scientific research and multidimensional actions carried out continuously and consistently, thus ensuring ongoing monitoring of trends related to widely understood demographics, and also when we develop appropriate recommendations to prevent negative developments in this area. Currently, there is no institution in Poland dealing in a comprehensive way with the study of demographic phenomena, especially low children, their impact on the situation of society and the development of adequate ways to deal with the situation. A good example of such an institution in France is INED, i.e. the National Institute for Research on Demographics, an institution which was founded already in 1945. France faced a problem that we are dealing with today in Poland, has already struggled in the interwar period, hence thinking about it has a much longer history than in Poland. There is no doubt, however, that the need for a consistent strategy to deal with this crisis is an urgent task on which the future standard of living of both present and future generations will depend. We believe that there is a need to set up a specialised unit for comprehensive studies on demographic processes. It is an institution in which an adequate degree of independence will be guaranteed from the factors relating to current political activity. This is necessary for the development of appropriate recommendations for the conduct of prodemographic policies. Such institutions have been established in many countries around the world: in France, but also in the United States. [[And in Hungary.]] In our part of Europe - in the Czech Republic, Slovakia... [[Hungary.]] ...in Hungary, as you rightly said, Member. I'm glad you have such knowledge in this area. [[Got it. Got it.]] Beautiful. I said a few words about assumptions... [[Voice from the room: 0.5 million must be paid out.]] ...which were at the heart of the project to create this institution, but now a few words about the tasks of the institute. The tasks of the Institute are laid down in Article. 3 of the draft law to enable a comprehensive examination of both demographic phenomena and related processes, and the development of recommendations and tools to enable State authorities to pursue appropriate policies in relation to emerging challenges. This is in line with the 2040 demographic strategy and the Responsible Development Strategy, in which the demographic trap has been identified as one of the most important barriers to Poland's development in the coming decades. Now, just a little bit about these tasks. First of all, it's a substantial base for a sustainable, organic pro-family policy. Secondly, the institute is conceived as a scientific institution and think tank diagnosing and forecasting demographic processes, opportunities and threats, analysing these processes together with the cultural and economic context. Thirdly, its tasks include the creation of family and demographic policy solutions and the promotion of the family. Finally, fourthly, the institute is conceived as an institution protecting the rights of the family, parents and children. The President of the Institute will be a specific spokesperson for family rights and will have powers similar to other spokespersons. [[How much is he gonna make?]] He will be entitled, among others. to participate in appropriate procedures to request a legislative initiative and to initiate appropriate changes to local law. These provisions in this respect - I say this because false information has appeared in the public opinion - have literally been transferred from two laws: from the Law of 1987 on the Ombudsman and from the second Act of 2000 on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights. There are no original solutions here. They're all those... [[The only thing that's original is money.]] [[Then what's the point?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will have time to speak. [[We're gonna talk because it's stupid.]] These solutions are adopted in the Polish legal order. Normally, you guys make a fair. It is also a moment where it is worth to say that this institution, the Polish Institute of Family and Demography, had two inspirations. One inspiration was the idea of setting up a research and analysis facility, creating proposals for pro-family policies, and the other - the idea of setting up an institution for family rights, a spokesperson for parents. As far as this first idea is concerned, it has been repeatedly raised by various individuals and environments as part of the work of the Family Council acting at the Minister of the Family. On the other hand, as far as the Ombudsman's institution is concerned, this case has been mentioned for many years again: it has been discussed several times in different formulas, also in Parliament, but also in other forms. by Mom and Dad's Foundation, by the Elbanowskis. [[Voice from the hall: Jesus...]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Superintendents, anti-implantants of children.]] According to research from the Mom and Dad Foundation, the need to create such an institution can see if it has seen 60% Poles. Since the Polish Institute of Family and Demography is to combine the characteristics of these two types of institutions, on the one hand, the research institution, and on the other hand the institution of the Ombudsman, it is to have considerable autonomy... [[Voice from the room: What's this for?]] ...which will separate him from government bodies... which will ensure independence and freedom of activity. I will also point out that these guarantees are similar to those held by other spokespersons: the Ombudsman and the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. Now a few words about the body structure of the institute. It is to be a state-owned legal person financed by the state budget, based in Warsaw, but with possible branches in the country, independent from public authorities at both government and local government level, functioning continuously and systematically. The president of the Institute must be a citizen of Poland, have a degree in science, distinguish himself from qualifications and experience in the area of family research, family and demographic policy, must not belong to a political party, trade union or conduct public activity incompatible with the dignity of his office. Clearly, it cannot be, as is apparent from the provisions of the law, a parliamentarian. I can't imagine whether it's hard for me to imagine any of the parliamentarians here running for president of the institute. [[E.g. Lorenzo.]] [[Voices from the hall: Meiza, Meiza.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a plenary room, not a fair... [[You guys are letting the Mass into the pleural room.]] The candidate for the president of the institute is to be selected in the competition by the board of the institute... ...or a bazaar. The competition is to have two stages: formal and substantive. Later, he must be accepted by the Sejm and appointed for 7 years. At the same time, the Sejm will be able, in certain cases, to dismiss the President from his duties in accordance with the law. In addition, the project directly guarantees the President independence from other public authorities at both government and local government levels. The consultative and advisory body will be the Board of the Institute, which will consist of nine members - five elected by the Sejm, two by the Senate, two by the President. [[But why?]] Members, like the President, must be distinguished by their knowledge and experience in family, family and demographic research. I hope the squad will be pluralistic. Already the fact that the Senate is choosing two members shows that this will be the case for sure. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: No mercy...]] [[Wróblewski will take care of the demographics.]] But I hope, I can say, that of all the relevant political environments, there will be a person on the board of the Institute, i.e. representatives of the United Right, and representatives of the opposition recommended by the Civic Coalition, by the people, the Left, or the Confederation. Briefly, if your marshal will allow it. Finish your work, sir. As regards the organizational units of the institute which show what it is to do, the Department of Research and Analysis, the Department of Culture, Media and Education, the Department of Cooperation with Local Authorities and NGOs, the Department of Foreign Cooperation... The adoption of the proposed solutions will result in expenditure from the state budget of about PLN 30 million, but will not result in additional financial costs for the budgets of local government units. High Izbo! If you take into account the axiology of the Polish constitution, negative demographic trends and a number of problems arising from these phenomena, the establishment of an institute seems more than desirable, it seems necessary to develop appropriate recommendations and tools for the conduct of prodemographic policy... [[Voice from the room: Women are afraid to have children in PIS-Polish Poland.]] ...including long-term and systematic activity aimed at diagnosing and shaping socio-cultural trends affecting the demographic condition of Poland. Thank you for your attention, I ask for a substantive discussion, in particular to avoid such arguments, which are obviously false, which are, as it were, the result of the draft law, which I have also presented here. And don't look for hidden intentions, intentions, because that, I think, doesn't serve the cause. Thank you, sir. In the end, it can be said that the issue of demography is important for everyone. Those who have right-wing views, left-wing views, those who do not identify themselves in any way, because from how the demographic situation of Poland will develop... Thank you, sir. ...depends on the fate of our society, part of us, certainly our children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u168	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Dominika Chorosińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Club of Law and Justice on the draft law on the Polish Institute of Family and Demography, submitted in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, dated 1767. From sociological studies it is clear that a large number of Poles consider the family to be the highest value. Family happiness is synonymous with individual happiness. At the same time, we see that the number of divorces per year is increasing. Young people declare that they want to have children and, at the same time, we are facing a huge demographic crisis. These and other phenomena indicate that an in-depth assessment of this situation is necessary. Families in Poland and Europe in the 21st century are in the process of permanent and multidimensional change. Their role in the development of municipalities, cities and states requires constant analysis, research and description, as this knowledge will depend on the condition and living conditions of future generations. Socio-cultural, demographic and economic processes require research to clarify and understand their interrelationship with the behaviour and aspirations of individual family members. It is important to promote good quality knowledge of the fundamental importance of marriage and parenthood for society. The lancet, a reviewed scientific medical journal from the UK, one of the longest published such journals in the world, claims that in 2100 we will be 15 million. Therefore, the establishment of the Polish Institute of Family and Demography seems to be extremely important. The family has been at the heart of politics since the beginning of the rule of law and justice and the United Right. This has been confirmed not only by word but also by action. To effectively support families, problems need to be identified effectively, development barriers in terms of starting up and working families successfully. Such institutes operate all over the world. Among the countries of the Visegrad Group Poland is the only country that does not have such an institute. The Law and Justice Club supports this initiative, which addresses the fundamental challenges of modern times. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u170	Thank you very much, Member. Monika Rosa will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that this project be rejected at first reading. I submit this proposal because this is not a project that is supposed to protect Polish families and talk about Polish families. This is a project that is designed to create a world without diversity and without freedom of choice. This is not a bill designed to care about the state of demography in Poland. This is a project which for 30 million PLN is to promote the conservative, national-Catholic model of the family and the world chosen by the applicants. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room:...in Europe.]] The Institute referred to in this project is a nightmare which creates further tools to control the life of Poles, Poles, to enter into their lives with shoes, as it is. you did, banning abortion in Poland and condemning so many women to drama and suffering. [[And you're condemning the children.]] Sad and cynical, and heartless is the fact that the child wants to care for Mr Wróblewski, the man who initiated the application to the tribunal who banned abortion in Poland... [[Voice from the room: Hell of women.]] ...which makes women afraid to get pregnant because they're worried about their health, about their lives. The Institute of Family and Demography. Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna had her family, too. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Oh, Jesus.]] The three most important elements of this project: the superprocurator of demography, education and personal data. Firstly, the project assumes that the President will be appointed for 7 years and will practically be irresistible. He will be appointed by politicians and will create a political institute for law and justice. Interestingly, and what is very difficult to adopt in a civil democratic state, the superprocurator, the president of the Institute, will be able to demand the initiation of proceedings in civil matters relating to families, in family matters, in particular in matters relating to parent-child relations, will be able to take part in proceedings relating to the establishment of adoption in matters of minors. The question is, why? The Institute's representative will be able to join e.g. to divorce proceedings. Why? To make it harder? He's gonna want to apply for parental rights for rainbow families, single-sex couples? He's gonna get involved where this family model doesn't suit you because it's not a marriage like this because it's a rainbow family because it's not like that? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What can a rainbow family have?]] Why should it interfere with adoption processes, adoptive processes, which still last a long time? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at least 50,000 are raised in rainbow families. children. These are real kids, these are real families. We have a child's attorney, a citizen's attorney. Why do we need another spokesperson? For years you have not been able to create a real demographic strategy in Poland, for 6 years. You've been in charge for six years. The Institute's supposed to help with that? You haven't been able to change the foster care system for years. The Institute will not assist in the matter of the legal representative as regards the rights of the child and the defence of the child before the court. You have not been able to create a system for the control of fatal accidents to beat children in Poland. For months, NGOs have been demanding it for years. The Institute won't change that. [[They protect paedophiles.]] [[Voice from the hall: Take the man...]] Mr President, you are simply out of line. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, that's the facts.]] [[Come to your senses.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Research and education. 30 million PLN you will use not for real research and in line with facts, but for promotion in schools by organizations that you will sponsor with this money, values that correspond to you, which are against diversity, which are against women's rights, freedom of choice. Minister Socha spoke recently about demographic strategies: housing, stable work, the possibility of combining work with family life, nursery, kindergarten. It doesn't take 30 million, we know what to do. Maybe that's what you're gonna do. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Personal data. What right will the Institute's employees and the President be able to use personal data without any restrictions, without GDPR, on written authority? Why? The most intimate details of our lives, medical data, educational data, about marital status - why is it at the institute? I don't think it's to influence the lives of citizens and have intimate information about their lives. Since you care and refer to France, France - liberal abortion, France - sexual education, France - access to contraception. Maybe it's worth going this way, not creating institutes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: France...]] You care about your families, you care about your children. We have a prescription for this: daycare, kindergartens, apartments, stable work, partnership in a relationship. This should be promoted. [[Voice from the room: And abortion.]] [[Cheap apartments.]] Contraception, sexual education, access to legal and safe abortion [[Applause]] - it will make women in Poland want to have children (the bell) and give birth to them. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: And in vitro.]] Do you know what 30 million PLN can be spent on? In vitro.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u172	Abortion and contraception as a cure for childbearing, that's great. Mrs Wanda Nowicka on behalf of the Left Club. Come on in, my fellow Member. [[In all countries where this is available, it's better with demographics, your marshal.]] Yeah, through the so-called. migrants. Of course, sir. [[Voice from the room: Any prejudice against migrants?]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sure. [[Voice from the hall: And for morality the best is Meiza.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And so is Marshal Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u173	On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I present my position on the draft law on the Polish Family and Demography Institute. The bill is another initiative by Mr Wróblewski, which frightens. It was thanks to Mr Wróblewski that the Constitutional Tribunal of Mrs Przyłębska found that a woman had to give birth, even if the fetus had fatal birth defects and died right after birth. The Constitutional Tribunal and Mr Wróblewski himself are morally responsible for the risk of Poles being pregnant with loss of life. The whole of Poland was convinced of this threat when Mr Isabella of Pszczyna and Anna of Świdnica died. The Family and Demography Act scares the hell out of us because it's supposed to be some kind of super-institution that has a lot of competence and money and no responsibility. He receives powers of other institutions, such as the Central Statistical Office, social policy, even the prosecutor's office. It will be an institution that will enter, I will say colloquially, with shoes for the private life of Poles and Poles, to influence our lives, to force women to intervene in divorce cases or when teenagers want to terminate their pregnancy. [[Do you have the same message?]] Then the head of the institute will be able to act as a prosecutor to force a 12-year-old girl to be born against her will. Full control over the fertility of Polish families. Is it still science fiction, or is it a ghastly reality that will become a fact when this bill is adopted? After all, there is a reason why Mr Wróblewski put in the bill a task for the institute: to participate in legal proceedings concerning family or children on the rights of the prosecutor. After all, Mr Wróblewski's institute is supposed to guarantee more birthdays, so the prosecutor, i.e. the prosecutor, not the defender, is really terrifying because the institute is supposed to accuse. Who? Who's the institute gonna accuse? E.g. women who have aborted pregnancy in the Netherlands or in the Czech Republic, or a doctor who prescribed a pill after intercourse, or parents who agree that their daughter, according to her will, should terminate the pregnancy. But that's not all. The Institute wants to limit the role of ombudsman. He's supposed to be his reviewer and reviewer. Mr Wróblewski wants to go through the Ombudsman to political parties. He could examine whether the purposes and activities of the party are consistent with the constitution. Let us imagine that the work, let us give to the New Left, for the rights of women, including the right to legal abortion, which is the mission and commitment of our party to women, can be regarded by Mr Wróblewski and Mrs Przyłębska and her serving tribunal as contrary to the constitution. Involvement of Left Messengers in the Citizens' Initiative Legal abortion. Without compromise, Mrs Przyłębska may find it unconstitutional. There's nothing impossible for Mrs. Przyłębska. Without a doubt, the privacy of citizens in practice will be abolished if the law enters into force because the institute could process all the information, including personal data, necessary for carrying out its statutory tasks. And what personal data are needed to increase birth rates? The use of contraception, pregnancy and abortion, of course. And this data is what he wants, so that the institute can intervene and use prosecutorial powers against women and families. The pregnancy registration regulation didn't come out of nowhere. Control over women's fertility is supposed to be the primary objective of state policy, because the state not only wants to learn about procreational decisions of people. The state wants to interfere in this election. The constitutional protection of privacy will become a fiction, because this project is about forcing Poles to give birth to demographic policies of the state to give birth, even if they are to die or lose their health. Mr Wróblewski did not succeed in making an ombudsman. The president in tears and as a reward for tormenting Poles makes him a riverman who will be able to interfere in the private life of families and will be able to organize them according to his will. And what a drag Mr Wróblewski has, we already know. The hell of women is his work. What will Polish families be like? No divorce, no Catholic, no women's rights. [[Hell is what you do to Poland.]] On behalf of the Left Club, I submit a motion to reject the draft law on family institute and demography at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u174	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u175	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I present the position of the club towards the parliamentary draft law on the Polish Family and Demography Institute, print no. 1767. Yes, sir, indeed the issue of demography is very important to us Poles, all of us. We are living in a very difficult time today. Threatening another hybrid attack, unforgettable pandemic, rising prices, inflation. You promised a cheap country. Meanwhile, we are involved in creating another institution with its headquarters, probably an expensive management of the institute, council and employees. But will it increase the fertility of Poles? It will be an institution which will duplicate the tasks carried out today by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and other institutions. A number of her tasks are already being carried out by local governments today. Isn't it enough to really help the well-functioning Ministry of Family and Social Policy and local governments? Indeed, the government has not developed a long-term demographic policy for six years. There's no senior policy either. There is also no migration policy. These problems cannot be solved by calling for another institution, as usual. Why does the government not use the experience of local governments in this area all the time, even by promoting the Charter of the Big Family? I will remind you that the forerunner of this card was the mayor of the town of Grodzisk Mazowiecki, a colleague of Grzegorz Benedykciński. The funds that we can allocate to Polish families should be shared by municipalities whose employees know the situation of Polish families should be an incentive to develop and have offspring. Always as Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party we vote in favour of good solutions for Polish families. [[That's not true.]] We also voted in favour of the 500+ programme. The first programmes were introduced when the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. [[67 years old...]] At that time, solutions such as lawn mowers were created, then maternity leave was created, they were extended to mothers. There are also numerous programs for seniors, as you remember. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to really think, seriously. Will creating another expensive institution increase the fertility of Poles? Or do we need other tools and means that will make more children born in Polish families? Maybe it's worth funding a health care system, creating smart solutions for mothers not to be afraid of getting pregnant. After all, tomorrow we will be discussing the law on penalties for doctors who are still in a difficult situation. Often they are faced with a choice, whether to save the life, the health of a woman's mother. Perhaps it is worth funding classes to compensate for disparities, which help children who need them to do so. There are no programs in Poland to support children's mental health. There are no specialists in this area. We all know very well - this problem has been raised many times - how great is the absence of children's psychiatrists. And so many children are suffering from these diseases today. Maybe it's worth funding a child's stay in nursery or kindergarten. Polish children, especially those who grow up in less wealthy families, wait a few or several months to visit a specialist. We need quick access to the dentist. Smart programs are needed to support children's physical and mental development. Can we afford today as a country - let's ask ourselves this question here - to build another institution that will consume... It's not 30 million, it's the next years of this institution, it's going to be billions of dollars. Can we afford it today, ladies and gentlemen? We will look closely at your actions in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u176	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] You have a medical discharge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u177	30 million will be taken away from the working families and transferred to the institute for reflection on demography. What could possibly go wrong in this idea? This madness of setting up more institutes is to be according to the PiS government, as I understand it, an answer to every next topic. I would ask for a handful of examples for which such an institute has led to a solution to a problem. [[Polish National Foundation.]] Mr Wróblewski spoke about the Czech Republic and France. If there are such institutes there, maybe it's cheaper to buy these solutions from them? [[Voice from the hall: From Hungary for sure.]] Or is it even possible to download it for free from the Internet? [[Joy in the Chamber]] So maybe we can save a lot of money. If you need some expertise, you can order it on the market for, I don't know, 50,000, let's say, not 30 million. Desk and jobs are not the answer to demographic problems. Or I'll help you out for 1%. That's the sum. Today I'll even tell you for free what's wrong with demographics. The causes of the demographic collapse of Western civilization are many. Of course, we don't have much influence on some of them, and we're not going to have much influence, for example. the spread of contraception, contrary to the opinion of Mrs Rosa, or the emancipation of women. These are phenomena that certainly weaken demographic growth in every country where they occur, but it's unlikely that anything will help. However, there are several factors for which you take responsibility and may have an impact. In my opinion, four are the most important. I don't know if I can replace it. Pension systems first and foremost. One of the reasons why people had children and always had children was to protect their old age. The senile old men were kept by children and grandchildren. They are, of course, still being maintained, but now the state has created a pension system so that they can no longer feel this relationship. Convincing the need to have children was recorded in an old culture that highly appreciated parenting, fertility, and family ties. Similarly, the break-up by Pobismarck's social regimes of the relationship between having children and keeping old has led to cultural changes in the opposite direction, i.e. the breakdown of family ties, to an ever clearer perception of children as a problem rather than God's gift. Solution: elimination of compulsory pension insurance. State education. The state is throwing into the market education, which it calls free, it is de facto prepaid in taxes. Anything that is free is abused, so this is how an absurd arms race was launched, in which education extends to almost 30 years old, even though most people don't need it at all, because they do simple work that they could prepare for in a week. or in a month. Everyone wants to have the highest education - if it doesn't cost anything - to lie down on the labour market, but because everyone does it, these efforts are still balanced. This also results in cultural change: the emergence of a new ethos of prolonged immatureness, youthful hedonism and, as a result, the withdrawal of fatherhood and motherhood in time. Solution: ground deregulation and privatisation of education. Taxes - third case. High tax wedges and rigid labour market regulation affect the most young people. Their money is taken when they are young, dissuading them from having children to pay back later in the form of various social programmes and pensions. Solution: simple (Bingle) and low taxes. And family law, fourth case. The state of marriage, the facilitation of divorce, and the interference in raising children take away family, people's sense of peril. More and more people feel that they are raising taxpayers for a greedy state, not their own children according to their own views. Thank you, sir. Supporting single mothers makes more single mothers and broken families. It's also written down in culture and it's remodeling our ideas about what our lives should be like. Solution: unhooking the state from the family, restoring full freedom in raising children. Unfortunately, all this is a long-term process and we will not change it into a year or probably even in 10 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u178	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u179	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In this room we have already seen many harmful projects, but this one is unique in a special way. Because it's not a print, it's a note that the extremely radical faction of the United Right wrote for 30 million a year and placed it in front of Jarosław Kaczyński. And they say pay up, president. Pay for their allegiance to a negotiated passion, because others have been given, and they haven't yet. Because when the president wanted to go with the opposition harder, they made a shameful conclusion to the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal, which ended in hell for Polish women and the death of Izabela from Pszczyna. And now we taxpayers will pay for their ill delusions, which look as if they were written not by Polish Members, but by fundamentalists sponsored by the Kremlin. [[Jesus Christ!]] Under the name of the Polish Institute of Family and Demography, there is no new institution taking care of the basic social cell, and an inquisition tribunal, which will have prosecutorial powers. Combined with the register, the pregnancy will be a real hammer on women's rights, on civil liberties and the real welfare of the family. And this is the tool you give to people who openly question our rights. For political debts, you're creating a dangerous precedent. This institute is de facto the institutionalization of extreme radicalism in Poland and the incorporation of marginal environments into government. Remember one thing: these environments will end up consummating you. You will stand before their tribunals. This race to the right wall is no longer improving your polls, and that is the most important factor in your decisions. 30 million PLN at the beginning is the price for which you sell women's safety in Poland. You create a violent custom police to fight women - with an army of pseudoprocurators who will chase after, here quote, violation of the rights or the welfare of the child. Let us remind you that for Mr Wróblewski, the principal initiator of this masterpiece, this definition meets pregnancy from incest or rape, but also one that threatens the life of the mother. So while doctors are afraid of helping women after TK's sentence, they will now have in mind the real threat of a civil trial that this IPN can bring to them for their children for saving their future mother's life when she dies. As Poland 2050, we apply to reject the project at first reading. We strongly oppose the use of concepts such as science and public welfare for the temporary satisfaction of radicals' appetites for money, power and the possibility of intimidating Polish women. Your demography institute and your family will be grotesque for the whole of Europe. It is better to spend 30 million PLN on purchasing DVD collections from Monty Python's Flying Circus for libraries across Poland to give Polish people spiritual compensation for the end of your governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because that's what it's gonna be like: like a cabaret broadcast around the world when radicals like Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Kai Godek and Ordo Iuris experts judge Polish families... Okay, we're almost done here, Member. ...and encouraged Polish women to become more childish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka on behalf of the Polish Case Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel like some people are trying to rediscover America. After all, there was a lot of research, there were a lot of surveys in which Poles answered various questions. I do not remember that in any of these surveys about children, family issues first appeared that the greatest need of Poles is to create a family institute and demography. Ladies and gentlemen! Just listen to the voice of Poles and respond to these needs. I assure you that this institute is not the most important need of Poles. Polish families need low taxes, they need a clear, simple, friendly law, and above all, they need that politicians do not enter into their lives with such arrogance. If you are convinced that this institute will fix anything, why don't you go further and create an institute of happiness, health and prosperity so that we can all be healthy, happy and prosperous? [[That's another good idea. Budget - 100 million.]] In fact, maybe it's better not to. Let's just say I didn't say that. But get out of this idea as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u182	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It must be said that it is a good thing that we are finally talking about a matter as important as demographics, generation replacements, and not only occasionally, but in terms of the establishment of a new institution - the Polish Institute of Family and Demography. What is important in terms of family, social and economic development and the future of Poland proves statistics and forecasts, which show that the demographic security of Poland is seriously threatened. Therefore, it is good that in a system way, through the Polish Institute of Family and Demography we will be able to first investigate processes taking place in families and in society, and then look for solutions best for the family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. I would therefore like to ask when, in the shortest possible time, the institute can be launched. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u184	Thank you. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Dear PIS Politicians! You used to say maybe we're stealing, but we share, and now you've stopped sharing. 30 million will only go to yours. Because what profit will the Polish family have from the fact that you will duplicate the tasks of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, numerous institutes dealing with childhood and demography and the Ministry of Social Policy? What's the point of that besides hugging money for your own people? One, I think. Because obsessed people will be able to dig into the beds of Polish families, they will be able to control whether parents raise their children according to your values and not with values consistent with the constitution... [[Ours are in line with the constitution.]] ...and whether the families will, as you wish, be married. Great request from most Polish families: stop hurting them. Mr Wróblewski said that the Polish family needs an institute. That's bullshit on springs. The Polish family needs a good job, stable wages (the bell), stopping inflation... Thank you very much. ...in vitro, nursery and kindergarten. That's what family needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u186	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Apartments and security.]] [[I didn't make it.]] Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is another draft law on the establishment of a new public institution, which is very expensive. 30 million, but about that later. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 10, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: 1 we read that the term of office of the President of the Institute expires in the event of death, resignation, appeal, conviction by final judgment of the court for a deliberate offence prosecuted by public prosecution or intentional fiscal offence. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Applicants! In addition to the basic question, for whom are these new jobs, I have a question: Should the position of president be lifelong? [[Seven years old.]] And think about it. Maybe it's worth $30 million to treat infertility. This will give a more measurable result than the seat and spend a year in the year 30 million PLN for new jobs. This is, for example. 7,000. In vitro procedures. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u188	Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are skeptical of the idea of establishing an institute and your speech has not dispelled this skepticism because you referred to the French demography institute, which has been operating since 1945. In those five minutes, I've been able to verify the subject a little bit. In the 1960s, France had a fertility rate of 2.85, 1.98 in 2021. Therefore, I have some doubts as to whether such an institute is a solution in terms of children anywhere, the more that if you consider the indigenous people of France and the influential ones, this childhood has already gone down completely. I would have a lot of questions about this institute, because I am completely not convinced by what you have said, but if I hear that abortion and contraception are the problem of demography, then I just have to say one thing: this whole left-liberal opposition is a state of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u190	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I look at the proposed prosecutorial powers of the new President, I think I know what you are talking about. You're trying to scare people. I don't know what you're talking about. You want to call a new official who's gonna be such a natural contraceptive. And this, my dear Mr Wróblewski, you may succeed. If people think you're gonna go after them, drag them around the courts, they're gonna think twice about whether or not they wanna have offspring. It even fits perfectly into this anti-demographic policy of the Law and Justice Government. There's a second bottom here, too. If the PiS government is not able to deal with something, as with demography, it calls for public money such an institute with staff full of trusted activists and families of Law and Justice and carries out propaganda activities that the government's inability to cover. That's what this institute's gonna do. The bill is to be rejected, of course. I call for this 30 million PLN (The Bell) to be allocated to child psychiatry. There they will indeed help and achieve these objectives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u192	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Friends of the ruling party! You have ruled for more than 6 years, you have introduced many programs under which you had a family, a demographic, the welfare of Polish families, and somehow the demography did not jump up. We're on the same level we were when you entered the government. [[It's much worse, sir.]] Question: "Do you ask yourselves what you are doing wrong?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u194	Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are living in the times of the greatest attack of the leftist communities on the family... [[Demography's dropping in your house.]] ...since the October Revolution in Russia in 1917, when Soviet communists tried to break up families and introduce new models of social relations. Thank you very much for the bill on the Polish Family and Demography Institute, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2012 the then Parliamentary Club Solidarna Polska presented the bill on the Ombudsman of Family Rights. This law was rejected at first reading by the votes of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, the Left, the Palikot Movement. Only Law and Justice and Solidarna Poland were in favour, because we are in favour of family because we are in favour of family rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On October 22, we celebrate Family Rights Day each year. Thank you very much. Let's keep that in mind. I appeal to the Confederation and to Polish Affairs: do not go to the Left side because it is a shame and a disgrace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u196	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Friends of the House! The declared reason for this law is to examine how this demographic collapse occurred in Poland. If you used a mental device, you would soon realize that it was your thoughtful policy that led to a demographic collapse in Poland. [[If you used the camera, you'd know 20 years ago...]] And what are the real reasons for this bill? Firstly, there is a group of Members of the Law and Justice, who were absolutely inspired by the Saudi Office of the Committee on the Promotion of virtues. And the second real reason is that you envied the presidents and management of the Polish National Foundation and other such organizations and wanted to spend 30 million. Therefore, the question to the authors of this law: Do you already have these uncles, these aunts, those cousins you want to hire there and you want to pay them the public money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u198	At least not in envelopes. [[At least not in envelopes.]] Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm is calling the customs police to fight the Poles with a superprocurator. The Institute will have full insight into our data, even the sensitive ones, so medical and intimate. The pregnancy register of Poles will be monitored by this institute. And I have a question for you: Will every Pole have his briefcase at this institute? If you don't know what to spend 30 million PLN on, then Poles tell you: spend it on nursery, kindergarten, spend it on in vitro. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] But I will tell you more: today, the rapporteur from this place said that the head of this institute will not be able to be divorced. Well, the issue of the family is about your party meetings, and don't bore the Poles about it. [[The PZPR was the best.]] Poles themselves know what their family should look like. But don't yell and don't threaten me with a finger. Don't impose on them what to look like. And the question of whether someone is divorced or not is the best way to analyze them at home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u200	What's the point of waving that finger, sir? Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. There isn't? Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u201	Mr Wróblewski! The draft law presented by you provides for a very broad competence of the President of the Institute. The media reports that you will be rewarded with this position. The first question is, is this true? You're famous for your fundamentalist religious views, and you've been very happy to support the beastly conclusion that pseudo-TK's acceptance of... Mrs... ... Izabela from Pszczyna. Ladies and gentlemen, can you really imagine supporting a project that will allow the president of the Institute to participate in all legal proceedings involving citizens? What views will he present in these proceedings? Will he speak during the trial e.g. The victims of violence that a woman's duty is to take care of her husband? Will he tell a beaten child that only a full family will make him grow? Will she tell a single mother that she's working too much, and that's why she can't raise a child? Would the pedophilia victim say that she was clinging to the perpetrator herself or that it was bioenergy therapy? Will such views be presented by the president of the Institute during court proceedings? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u202	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u203	In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 of this dangerous for women, marriages, couple laws, the President of the family institute and demography obtains prosecutorial powers on a larger scale than e.g. Chairman of NIK. It may seek information, including sensitive personal data, from any organisation, institution, public administration. We don't know if or how he's gonna protect them. And I have a question. I do not think that the President - because it is expected to be who the President will be, and certainly what goals he will pursue - will not record either It's not just the pregnancy, it's the birth control. According to the designers, will there be a database, who, what couple... [[Where, who, what time and what position.]] ...and what contraceptive pills are used: spirals, birth control pills (the bell), pills after... Thank you very much. ...maybe the doctors who prescribe these things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u204	Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the Left is against is not surprising, it is not unusual. A debate like a debate, I would say, normal in the House. But I have a question for the members of the Confederation. [[But they're not applicants.]] Are you for your family, or are you against your family? Are you for demography, or are you against demography? [[But all you're doing is a disaster.]] Or is it time to say straight and honestly that you don't like it, because it's not your bill, and it's time not to play, just to say if you're in favour of family, or if you're in favour of demography? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u206	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. [[The question is, which family will make the best money out of it.]] Mr Snapshot, you've already been in the podium, screamed, threatened, so maybe you should listen more calmly now. [[Voice from the room: But what is this personal commentary?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Normal... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, if he's screaming from the parliament jury, he's acting like that, it's not proper behavior, and I'm paying attention. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u207	In Poland, the least children have been born since the end of World War II. What's the PiS doing? PiS sets up a family institute and demography to encourage Polish women to have children. It's gonna cost 30 million a year, he's gonna have a president with prosecutorial powers and a seven-year term that's gonna be hard to cancel. The President will also have nine board members to help, and all of them will be highly remunerated. You want to keep the depopulation? Do you want to resolve the demographic collapse in Poland? Do you want the Polish to have more children? Then let us, Polks, live in peace, do not go into our bedrooms with boots, do not look into our lives, and do not take away our right to decide about yourselves. I have a question for the representative of the applicants Bartłomiej Wróblewski, who gave the Poles the hell of women, seems to also be the future president of this institute. How is the Institute supposed to enforce the assumptions of the Government Demographic Strategy 2040, which, first, is not yet available, and which, secondly, is strongly criticised by scientific communities, sociologists, demographyists, economists (Dawn), for extreme substantive generality and overloading ultra-conservative ideology? Thank you. Over what divisions has this project been created? Because above women's heads, I'm sure, sir. [[Applause]] [[There's a lot of women...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u208	Thank you, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u209	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The road right side of the seym scene, so much and so beautifully speaking about the family that I want to ask how many are on your side of divorce and how many children you have. [[Ooh...]] You use big, round words about the holiness of the Polish family. [[Member, one wife, two children, three grandchildren.]] You're gonna give the DA's office the right to look into intimate places so he can look under women's covers. Your social policy, your pro-family policy is so inefficient that today you have to milk 30 million dollars with an additional institute. Because if it were effective, this institute wouldn't be necessary. Mr Wróblewski, in 2017, I wrote a message to you when you applied to the Constitutional Tribunal, and you replied and made a declaration: I was one of the applicants of the programme "For Life," which supports mothers and families of children with disabilities. It's important. This will continue in the future. That's one of the things you failed to do, and that's one of those arguments that we know for sure today that this institute isn't gonna work either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u210	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I personally am very pleased that an institution such as the Institute of Family and Demography... [[Anyone in the family get a job?]] ...which in a professional, scientific, professional way will support the Polish state in its impact on demographic processes and will support Polish families. In the draft law, designers outlined many of the Institute's objectives. It's about preparing analyses, expertise, prognostic studies, making proposals to solve problems. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum of the bill indicates that if nothing changes, the population of our country will decrease by 4.5 million by 2050. My question in this connection is: Can the establishment of an institute contribute to the change of these very negative trends? [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u212	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I always knew that PiS dreamed of a great inquisition with a great inquisitor, Mr. Wróblewski. I have no doubt that this thing between the D.A.'s office and the moral police and is intended to serve one - to look at Poles to bed and watch them live. If you really wanted the kids to be born, you wouldn't have shut down the in vitro program. Thanks to the in vitro program - financed by the state - more than 20,000 were born in Poland. small Poles. Now local governments are supporting in vitro: 3 and 6 thousand. for one procedure. If this money were to be spent on it, five thousand could be financed annually. In vitro procedures. On the other hand, you prefer to find jobs for your people, and perhaps also Mr Wróblewski, who has not become a spokesperson for civil rights, wishes to become a great prosecutor or rather a great inquisitor of Polish families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u214	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. There isn't? There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u215	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! People choose their offspring when they feel safe. When the economic situation in their country is stable and there is no crazy inflation. When medical care protects the health and life of a woman. When investing in the latest methods of treatment for infertility, including in vitro. When every child, even in the smallest village, has access to a nursery since birth and then to a kindergarten. When women have equal opportunities in the labour market. When parental leave is given equally to fathers and mothers. When parents can raise their children according to their values, not yours. When the state takes care of the environment, clean air, water, invests in green energy, does not cut forests and cares about the health of future generations. When the government has a peaceful policy, it takes care of alliances and good relations. And you're doing everything the other way around (the bell), which is why the country's gonna loosen up. You want the Polish to give birth? Then resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u216	Ms Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry to hear you say that... [[30 million.]] ...falling from the opposition, Polish Members. It is clear that demographic growth is a key factor in ensuring the sustainability of our society, but it is also the future of its development. I'm surprised at these voices of opposition - I don't know why. Against the family? Against women? Or against the children? And this miserable attempt to do on something very good, which should have already existed in Poland, politics and this desire to be present in the media. The opposition speaks of abortion - that's why you came to the Sejm to take action to kill future generations? Every life should be surrounded by care and respect, as should the family. These actions have been taken from the very beginning by the Government of Law and Justice. On the other hand, the falseness of the opposition's actions (the bell) is evident. On the one hand, he talks about democracy and equality, taking care of women, about the constitutional rights of our society... Thank you very much. ...and completely disregards the constitutional obligation to protect the Republic of Poland's care of marriage, motherhood and parenthood. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u218	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Family and Demography Institute sounds proud, doesn't it? Here the Polish government takes care of Polish families and wants to protect society from demographic nuisance. You described 500+ as a program that will stimulate and encourage Polish society to start families. We all knew it wouldn't work and it didn't work, and now the government says no, that wasn't the purpose of the program. On behalf of the families, you want to ban abortion completely. Does it affect demographics? Yeah, she does, because women are afraid to just get pregnant. In vitro? Oh, that's an inappropriate method, although this program could just increase Childhood. Unfortunately, not for you, because the most important thing is ideology. This institute is just a facade on which you want to build your supposed attachment to tradition and values. It's another institution that you're going to fill with members of your family and friends, and huge taxpayers' money will be spent without any supervision to the right and to the left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u220	Thank you. Ms Agata Katarzyna Wojtyszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u221	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has supported and supported Polish families from the beginning. There's a lot of programs you don't think there was any money for, like the 500+ program. It was this program that pulled Polish children and Polish families out of extreme poverty. The value of a family is a priceless value. The positive influence of upbringing in the family is primarily related to family values, mutual affection, family roles and patterns of communication. A good family in the process of raising and growing children and young people is unable to replace no one, therefore state policy, local government policy, non-governmental institutions should be directed towards help provided to the family and in the family. The family is the basic environment of functioning (The Bell) and development of the child. John Paul wrote about this II, therefore I am convinced that the Polish Institute of Family and Demography... Thank you, Member. ...will affect the good functioning of our homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u222	Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Institute is to be the basis of pro-family and pro-demographic policies. So I have a question: What solutions will the institute put in place if the flagship programme did not bring about an increase in birth rates? Are these supposed to be the solutions you're proposing so far, orders, prohibitions and penalties? The pseudo-TK condemns women to suffering and death. Introducing the virtues of the women, preferably in their early 30s, to give birth to children, not to pursue a career. Putting in a pregnancy register, a total ban on abortion under 25 years in prison, putting in place difficulties in divorce. You even plan to reduce the number of imperial cuts in childbirth. And finally, the president of the institute, who will have prosecutorial authority. Why? To chase and punish women. Fanaticity kills. You don't have to set up an institute and spend 30 million to say that women are afraid and beyond (the bell) will be afraid to get pregnant. Soon Poland will set, but only the sun will set. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u224	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sure every bill has all sorts of emotions. Any bill can be criticised. Except that my expectation was always such that, if there is a draft law, refer to certain solutions that are in this law. But let us ask ourselves how much we express our political or ethical views, and how much we refer to this law. I have a request to your applicant, to the designer, namely let him again present the tasks of this institution here. Because there really is a big misunderstanding. I also have this question: Is the president of the institute, is the council of the institute colored for the right hand people, or can anyone compete in these elections and competitions? But I also have another question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is there two-channel office in one institution and the other? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u226	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, we should ask where the Minister for Family Affairs is. If she's not here, perhaps the government doesn't approve of this project. I'm glad you're the government's representative for demographic policy, and I've recently learned that there's been a position in the government for two years. There is also the Family Council - I do not know if you know - which includes three Members of Law and Justice. [[Not much.]] Isn't that enough? We need an institute. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the 36th institute, government agency or fund. From PLN 30 million for the Patriotic Fund there was no patriotism in Poland. There was more hatred, more division and xenophobia. There will also be no better demographic policy from this institute. It's really about making this 30 million. To get something else out of the two years you've got left (the bell) for the rest of this term. I think this is a very bad idea. Thank you, sir. Thank you. This is also a limitation of the ombudsman's powers, and this must be mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time. The 17th Marshal called the Bureau and the Senior Convention... [[Voice from the room: at 10 p.m. 17?]] On time. 20, therefore, I must announce a 15-minute break, which I also do. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 59 hours 20 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We continue with the examination of paragraph 6. The question is asked by Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fertility, mortality, migration and cultural changes affect the population's population and structure. The modern model of the family, changes of priorities, delaying the decision to have a child significantly affects demographics also in Poland. As statistics show, the population in our country is falling significantly. According to the Central Statistical Office, the population will decrease by 12% in 2050 compared to 2013. That's over 4.5 million. As a society, we are increasingly aware that comprehensive solutions, research and demographic policies need to be developed. It is necessary to guarantee the conditions for the creation and functioning of families who will be born and raised by generations to come. I would therefore like to ask what tasks will be carried out by the Institute in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u230	Thank you, Member. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Demographic policy is the biggest failure of the PiS government. [[Applause]] Doesn't help 500+ and doesn't help caring capital. For 6 years you have systematically and consistently destroyed Polish demography and the sense of security of Polish women. You've eliminated in vitro, tightened the right to terminate pregnancy, planned to impede and prolong divorce proceedings. You want to punish women and their doctors for abortion. The effects of your actions are tragic. Mrs. Isabella of Pszczyna is dead, and many young people are afraid to start families and have children. This institute is another program of stool+ implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Of the taxpayers' money, PLN 30 million is earmarked for new jobs, among others. for the future president of Mr. Wróblewski. Instead of (the bell) creating another institution, it is better to create a support programme for women and families based on the sense of freedom, improvement of perinatal standards, increase safety and care of pregnant people in Poland and allocate funds to it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: In vitro and abortion.]] [[What's wrong with in vitro?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was convinced that the project about the Polish Institute of Family and Demography will promote... [[They're gonna push ……]] ...will support, sir, yes, the opposition clubs. Why? That's because art. 18 Constitution protects families. The draft law is part of this article of the Constitution. Demography is the most important issue in Poland's development, also economic. The previous speaker said here about PLN 30 million and in every speech it repeated: PLN 30 million. You care so much about the taxes of Poles, that's why it hurts so much... So I have a question: Is it your governments that spent PLN 50 million on the Internet portal for homeless people so that each one of them has a laptop or a mobile phone? Think about how you spent your money first. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u234	Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u235	Ladies and gentlemen! Demography in Poland calls for vengeance to heaven. [[He's down.]] In the last year, 334 thousand were born. Children, and 538,000 died. Poles and Poles. Most people have died since World War II, and this difference is 204 thousand, this is the demographic difference in Poland. You rule 6 years and Poland has one of the lowest birth rates of children - 1,3 . For comparison France - 1,9, Ireland - 1,9 . In order to stabilise the situation, 2, 1 is needed. And we're still on the total minus. This is the failure of your politics. Real politics is needed, not the creation of a pseudo-Institute like in a commune. We need stable work for young people, we need a chance to live, which today costs PLN 0.5 million or PLN 1 million, we need full care in daycare and kindergartens, we need a chance to get a loan (the bell), we need in vitro support. In addition, I would also like to say that this project is unconstitutional because it forces the Ombudsman to apply to the Constitutional Court. That's the kind of authority the head of this institute has. These are also non-constitutional entries in this law, which is why it is evil. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you know why the sense of safety of women who would have children in Poland is falling? Because your fanaticism, your religious fundamentalism is rising. [[Voice from the room: Everyone judges after themselves.]] Because you want to interfere with our lives more and more. You want to walk into our homes with your shoes, look in our beds, tell us what to think and what to do. You will set up another institute for PLN 30 million with almost unrevocable president, who will have prosecutorial powers. 30 million PLN for analyses concerning the fertility of Poles. There's probably gonna be gigantic pay for the president again, right, Mr. Applicant? 30 million PLN. You know what you can do with that money? You can really act. 11 million PLN per year costs in vitro program in Warsaw and 1,200 children have already been born as part of this program (Dzinek). You could implement three such programmes within this budget, and that would be real support for families and support for the development of children in Poland. And in the end, don't interfere, don't impose, don't tell us how to live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard so many speeches in this Chamber about the institution of the Inquisition Court, the Inquisition. But if there's an Inquisition, then there must be heretics. We've heard a lot of speeches about a superprocurator, a prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen, these records, when we examine the Code of Administrative Procedure, known to you, have been in our almost 60 years as regards the participation of the prosecutor. I encourage you to read. Art. 143 and 144 c.p.a., 1960. I mean, these laws still apply to this day. Art. 183 Code of Administrative Procedure. The prosecutor has the right, not the obligation, to demand the initiation of proceedings and to take part in ongoing proceedings. But for what purpose? In order to ensure that the proceedings and the settlement of the case are lawful. If you are hitting this rule, do you stand at the border of law, law or law enforcement (the bell) of lawlessness? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You didn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 45 years of work as a doctor. My first patient in the hospital ward 45 years ago was a woman who had four children, and 14 killed, 14 abortions. I haven't changed my mind about what abortion is. I see false concern on the part of the women here, in the courtroom, and the mothers of the opposition, because I see that you are demanding an extension of the indications for abortion probably on request. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: How is that not true?]] Do you know what is the main cause of people's hostility towards children and themselves? No respect for human life. The Institute wants to help the family. I would ask the applicant to repeat, at the end of the day, the main objectives of the Institute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u242	Please, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hear from the left-wing messengers that the institute of family and demography will take away divorces from Poles and Poles. However, divorce for most young children who are divorced is not a blessing, it is the greatest tragedy of life. [[And I'm gonna deny you, and I'm gonna deny it.]] Why are my parents getting divorced? Such a question is asked by many children whose parents decided to end their marriage. The child often doesn't say it's his parents' fault, but he takes it on himself. [[And Kurski, why was he divorced?]] Divorce has huge negative effects not only for children, but also for society and even for the economy of the state. [[Voice from the room: How many divorced people are in the PiS?]] No, the family institute and demography can't eliminate divorces and there are no such ideas. Instead, he will investigate the causes of divorce and present solutions... [[Maybe it's best to ask Kurski.]] ...which will help prevent divorce, mitigate their effects on spouses, but above all their children. The Institute will also not eliminate abortion, contraception, will not (the bell) look into the bed, will not prohibit women from doing their careers, but will act so that those Polish women who want to do their careers, and at the same time want to have children, can combine these two things for the benefit of themselves, for children and for their family. I have a question for the applicant: Will the family institute and demography have a legislative initiative, as the Left messengers fear? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u244	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha. [[Why aren't you guys doing your best...]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down, woman.]] Gentlemen, I ask you to remain calm in this courtroom. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say a few sentences about what was discussed today in this Chamber, i.e. issues related to demography and the parliamentary project concerning the establishment of the Polish Institute of Family and Demography. Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to this debate is one of the reasons why we need a broad education and knowledge about demographic phenomena. [[Applause]] [[Then what's the Ministry for?]] The Ministry, Mr President, has its tasks, which are well known to you as a Member and need not be explained. [[Why didn't you do it for six years?]] I'm asking you to calm down. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: Dear Member, there was an opportunity to ask a question or say something, and I would ask you for a moment... [[Voice from the room: But there are limits.]] [[There are limits. I wanted to ask you a question, and I couldn't.]] I would like to ask you to remain calm. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: I promise to give up my time, if that's the rule of law. No, there isn't, Minister. Please answer the questions. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: As far as issues related to education and knowledge of demographic processes are concerned, I believe that all of us here, as people who have an impact on lawmaking, on legislation in this country, are obliged to have basic knowledge in this area. I think one of the tasks of the institute is to spread knowledge about demography. When I listened to this debate, I received a text from a friend who called this debate an ocean of ignorance when it comes to demographics. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had a demographic collapse not for a year, not for six years, not since 2015, we've had a demographic collapse for 20 and 25 years. Our biggest problem in the demographic context since the beginning of transformation, i.e. since 1989, is that the demographic increase in martial law, which should have resulted in the beginning of the two thousand years, has not been exploited. And at the beginning of the two thousand years, ladies and gentlemen, I mean the years 2002 and 2003, the least children have been born in Poland since World War II. [[Voice from the hall: Left governments.]] It is absolutely not true what rained several times today - that last year the least children were born in Poland. That's not true. The smallest children were born in 2002 and 2003. I know exactly, I had my first baby in 2002. These are the people who went to college this year. This is our newest generation, which is already beginning to enter the labour market, will enter it 100% in 5 years, and these are the least numerous yearbooks in the post-war history of Poland. What does that mean? That means two things, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the least children were born at that time, even though there were relatively many women who could have given birth, there were more than 10 million of them. Last year, when we were dealing with a really small number of births - a pandemic is an unforgettable phenomenon, but let's abstract from a pandemic - there were not even 9 million women in Poland who could give birth to children. The population of women of procreational age included 8800 thousand. Women. This is the biggest tragedy and demographic disaster. 20 years ago, demographers were hitting the alarm. You're saying today we're having a demographic collapse, 200,000. negative natural growth. That's what happened 20 years ago. Demographers have been calling for the creation of appropriate institutions to coordinate policies in this area for 20 years. The belief that one instrument, even such a radical, costly and large one as the 500+ programme, would reverse demographic trends is best demonstrated by the lack of elementary knowledge in demographics. The French Institute of Demographic Studies INET is an institution that has been conducting analyses for 70 years, designing policies, ensuring continuity of knowledge for each subsequent French government. The need to set up an institute as a research, analytics and, what is important - we do not have it in Poland - which is a public policy designer in this area, is a need best shown by the French example. This is not a question for one term, it is not a question for two terms or a decade, it is a question for at least the next few decades. We want this, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that the continuity of this policy, its coherence and its comprehensiveness are also after power changes. It's not like we're gonna be in charge forever. We're gonna get the next rule crews coming for us. It is necessary to accumulate knowledge, continuity of these politicians so that each row does not re-invent the circle and that there is no such wish concert as we have heard here today: or let's do this, or let's do that, or let's do something else. Research is needed, knowledge-based policies are needed. Knowledge develops in the world, changes. It is not that something that the French introduced 30 years ago will work in Poland today, as you said from the Confederation. That's not true. Politics are developing, there are new discoveries, new research in the world. Such a facility should also be used to track the latest world research. And today, in preparing even a demographic strategy, we have used, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation, the evaluation of the 500+ programme carried out by whom? - by American institutes. This need is very important today. This is, of course, not a necessary task here and now, at this point, i.e. Just like we've lived without it for so many years, so we can exist. Of course, 30 million PLN can be spent on many other purposes, but we need to answer the question whether this is an important goal for us, whether we want demographic policies in Poland to be conducted in a coherent way, consistently, in the long term, not in a chaotic way, not from term to term. Today we need consequences, because only then will these policies be effective. Every demographic will say that at the moment... Did the 500+ program work or didn't it work? First of all, six years isn't enough to judge. American institutes say it worked better than other instruments, e.g. Hungarian - such comparisons are available thanks to this type of research - but this does not mean that these institutes, these policies are to have effect within a year, all the more so because in the media space, the public is torpedoed with ideas that will be eliminated. Under such conditions, these instruments do not have the chance to work fully, as they could if they were convinced of their sustainability. I think I'm gonna stop there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u246	Thank you very much. Please, the representative of the applicants of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u247	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this debate. The Minister's voice at the end was a very good one and, I think, a calming discussion, a substantive voice. Thank you very much for him, but thank you also to all the others who spoke today. Of course, some of you and your fellow Members have spoken kindly and I particularly thank you for these votes, but I also understand critical voices, although I do not agree with everyone. I will also talk about those issues which, although critical, also raised my doubts when I thought about the bill and prepared it. I'll discuss it one by one, according to how different comments were made. I won't go back to some things if they've been raised before. I would like to start by asking the Civic Platform to reconsider its position. Why? Because the axiological basis of this institute was created by the Civic Platform and its political predecessors. Who created the Polish Constitution? The Polish constitution was created by the Constitutional Coalition, which operated during the 1993-1997 term. [[Don't forget the Left.]] I'll get to it and pay my respects in a minute. I'll also draw attention to the inconsistencies. On the one hand, there was the Freedom Union, on the other hand there was the PSL, of course there was the Left, then the largest club, and the Labour Union. In short, the right part of today's parliament did not actually participate in this, was against that constitution at all and thought it was an inappropriate project for various reasons. But this is your project, in short, it's your responsibility. [[And it's the right thing to do.]] You wrote it down to protect your family and take care of her. It's about parenting, marriage, motherhood. Come on. They signed the Constitution, voted in favour of the Constitution, and Mr President, President Tusk, and for example. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and Alexander Kwasniewski. In short, important people. [[Donald Tusk wasn't in the Seym at the time.]] But he was in the Senate, and so was... [[He wasn't.]] I think he was a vice marshal, that he was in the Senate. [[As of 1997.]] All right. Anyway, they were politicians of the Freedom Union. There's been a charge that the president will be practically irresponsible. I would like to draw your attention, Mrs Rosa, to the fact that the same design is in the case of other spokespersons. And the Ombudsman, and the spokesperson for the rights of the child, and the president of the IPN, and the head of NBP, and the head of NIK are practically irresponsible, but thanks to that they have independence, autonomy, they can act in some sense in control over the rest of the public authority. The head of the NIK shall exercise them, the Ombudsman shall exercise them, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child shall exercise them. In short, these solutions are not original. These are solutions of the Polish Constitution in many other cases. [[Voice from the room: But you want to control the Ombudsman.]] The question is, why do you need another spokesperson? This dilemma also had the creators of our constitution. The Ombudsman had previously functioned and nevertheless created an institution for the Ombudsman's rights. Later, another institution of spokespersons was established. In other words, it can be said that this trend, in order to create further institutions of spokespersons, is not a new trend. It has lasted for several decades not only in Poland, but throughout Europe. Mrs Rosa spoke, for example. domestic violence. It is necessary to say and respect the Minister of Ziobra, the Ministry of Justice, that it is our ministry, our government, and then the entire parliament has adopted laws to protect against domestic violence. [[But the number in the case of such violence grew.]] In short, the big thing in this area has been made and not been made earlier. Neither in the days of the left nor in the days of the liberals were these things done. Mrs Rosa said: the values that suit you. I repeat, the current constitution was not adopted by the right. To whom did these values correspond? These values correspond to today's center, today's left. Perhaps the left has changed over the 25 years, perhaps the center has changed, but this is an act for which you politically are responsible, because you created it, you defended it. She's in effect, we're all in force. Data. No sensitive data will be used. This is some fake news that came out here and has been repeated many times. Yes, statistics, because it is difficult to conduct demographic policies without knowing how many people live in Poland, how many women, how many men, how many marriages, how long they last, when the first child is born, etc. The Polish Institute of Family and Demography will cooperate, as the preamble to the Constitution says, encouraging, ordering this cooperation, e.g. with GUS, but GUS conducts other activities, collects raw data from many areas of social and economic life, but does not carry out in-depth demographic research, as Minister Socha mentioned in her speech. I refer to the comments made by Mrs Nowicka from the Left. Here there were many such remarks ad personam, and we know that personal comments are the weakest in any discussion. I'm not gonna be president of this institute. I'm not gonna give up my ticket. This is the obvious thing that I've already talked about in public several times. [[I wasn't talking about that, sir. I was talking about the prosecutor's authority.]] I also spoke in today's speech... I have a request for Mrs Górska to give me her laptop. Thank you very much. I'll read something to you just to answer your question. This case is very important. The point is, I'm taking over the powers of other institutions. Minister Socha said we lack good knowledge in this area today. No, in no way will the institute duplicate the work of other research institutions. On the other hand, in the area of defence of family rights, parents' rights, as I said, will complement the action of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman to some extent. I'm going to ask you a very important question. I think it's very unfair. The Ombudsman's Law of 1987, as of 2021. Paragraph 14 (4) may require civil proceedings and may also take part in any proceedings already under way on the rights of the prosecutor. Paragraph 6: may request the initiation of administrative proceedings, bring actions before the administrative court and participate in those proceedings on the rights of the acceding prosecutor. Is it because of these provisions that you or any of you have ever called your spokesperson Łętowska, Mr Zielinski, Mr Zoll, Mr Bodnar the prosecutor? Why are you guys using such a... [[But the D.A.'s powers are.]] But did you call your previous prosecutors in this regard? This is a demagogical argument. Ombudsperson of the Children's Rights Act 2000, Legal status for 2021 Art. Point 10 (3) may require civil proceedings and may take part in ongoing proceedings on the rights of the prosecutor. Paragraph 3a: may take part in pending proceedings in juvenile cases under the rights of the prosecutor. [[And why not as an observer?]] Paragraph 5: may request the initiation of administrative proceedings, bring actions before the administrative court, and participate in those proceedings on the rights of the acceding prosecutor. In other words, these regulations have been in force in Poland for decades. The wording of these acts is such as to briefly indicate the powers of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman. By force, these provisions concerning the family institute and demography in the area in which it is intended to defend the rights, the constitutional rights of the family are shaped by analogy. There's no normative novelty here. This is what has been in force in Poland for a long time. There have been many accusations, starting with Mrs Nowicka, that the institute will create lives for someone. He's not gonna create a life for anybody, because it's not his business at all. It is an institution that is to study, which is to analyze, which is to propose, which is to promote the family, and which will not force anyone to do anything. I refer to the comments made by Mrs Żalewska, to the position of the Polish Coalition. It is true that it will be another public institution. It will cost PLN 30 million. What is the cost, 30 million PLN? That's about what we spend every year on the construction of 1 km of the highway. The question is, is this goal, which is not even to change civilization trends, because it is impossible, but to weaken these trends, increase the natural growth, the fertility of women by at least one tenth, two tenths, three tenths... [[How do I increase it?]] Any change in this area leads to effects that amount to billions or tens of billions of zlotys, given the time... [[But how are you gonna do that?]] [[How will you make women in Poland have more children?]] I'll get right to that question. I just want to address this argument about valuables. It is a certain cost, but in relation to what is at stake, it is a really small cost. It was also noted that a number of tasks that the institute is to carry out are carried out by local authorities. That's not true. Self-governments have no such competence. Isn't it better to help the family ministry? The Institute is to be set up to help the government, the parliament to create demographic policy, but at the same time it is not supposed to be an institution that is at the bell of a parliament or a government. It is to be an independent institution, just as independent advocates are, as independent is the Institute of National Remembrance, as independent are the other institutions I have already mentioned. On the other hand, he will cooperate with local governments. Even one department has this name: cooperation with local governments. Mrs Ferrowska mentioned the extension of maternity leave thanks to the Polish People's Party. It's one thing... I often say, too, that this was a good thing that we managed to do to the previous parliaments. I would like today's opposition also to understand that many things are not meant to serve PiS, but are just good things that we do in Poland, which are to last for years, for decades. And I wish that was the case with this institute. Twice or three times, the complaint was made regarding the absence of programmes to support mental health. I checked it out in the meantime. In 2015 we spent PLN 170 million on the mental health of children and young people in Poland. Guess how much we're spending right now. 550 million, three times more, to be spent in 2022. Co-financing for children in kindergarten. And what is family care capital? In the second and third years of age, 6,000 each. zł to support the upbringing of children, whether it's for day care or for home care. The question has been asked by Mrs Żalewska whether we can afford to build another institution. I have another question: Can we afford to do nothing about demographics over the next years and decades? We can't afford it, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to press charges against previous governments, although it has been rightly said that the demographic problem has not arisen in recent years. In my speech, in my statement of reasons, did I burden the governments of the Civic Platform? I didn't make that plea. Did I burden the left? I did not burden, because we all understand that the problem of demography is a civilization problem that affects all European countries - to varying degrees, but all. In short, it's hard to blame each other. It doesn't make any sense. Dear Colleague Sosnierz of the Confederation! I'll give you some experience. A few years ago, there was a discussion about whether to create an institution of spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. At that time I asked a question to a colleague of Caesar Kaźmierczak, a well-known freelancer, a well-known singer of economic freedom. I asked him: Do you think it makes sense to create such an institution? After all, this is against such a classic liberal assumption. He said: In fact, you are right, but given the scale of the interference of European, government, local government in business, such an institution is needed because the average entrepreneur is unable to cope. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have to have an institution like this. I would very much like to ask the marshal for a few more minutes, because these are important matters. I want to be honest with everything. [[We know everything. We know everything.]] Okay, but please, just a few minutes, sir, because there are a lot of statements. Thank you very much. [[We know everything.]] In short, my answer is just like President Kaźmierczak. I understand this accusation, in some sense I always ask the same question as you today, but I think that the matter is fundamental to our future. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[That's all you said. You could have said it faster.]] I agree with many such historical observations, but I believe that today we cannot leave this matter to our own race. We should do what we can. Very unelegant words were made by the Polish Member 2050. [[You're done with the elegance.]] There have been several different innuendoes here. As I said before, the Institute will not be involved in imposing any attitudes, but will be involved in research, family support, demographic policy. Nobody's gonna be intimidated by the institute. Mr Szramka asked if we wanted to discover America forcefully and whether the creation of a demography institute is the greatest need. This is not the greatest need, but it is one of many things needed. If we consider, I do not know, that the 500+ programme costs over PLN 30 billion per year, then PLN 30 million per institute is not, seems to be, some very large expenditure. He asked if it would be better to reduce taxes. We're reducing taxes. In Polish Lada we increase the tax-free amount, so we lower taxes. [[Mr President, finish it, we know everything.]] We increase the amount free to 30,000. zł. We have reduced the tax for young people up to the age of 26. They don't pay PIT. Big families won't pay PIT. We've lowered CIT. Mr President, I have already extended your speaking time. You're very close to the end. I know, but I have questions to answer. Yeah, but... [[Then why do you say that?]] Mrs... Your Marshal... [[And we can't ask questions.]] I'm sorry. Mrs... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Then rule me out.]] You're welcome. Your Marshal, it would be easier if I weren't disturbed by the Members. Mr President, I have extended your time. The limit is 15 minutes, and I've extended your time. There you go. You still have two minutes. [[And for us, it's always...]] Good. Most of the arguments and issues have already been raised. It was alleged that after 2015 demography did not jump up, but according to the study by the CSO in 2020 the childhood in Poland was supposed to be 1.28 children per woman, while the data show that it is 1.41, i.e., in short, a decrease in natural growth in Poland. In my opinion, this should be the purpose of the institute. It is true what Mr Wozniak said, that for some of the participants of this discussion this is another opportunity to attack the family... [[You'd better finish it.]] ...and in fact attack what the Polish constitution expresses, which, as I said, was adopted by the votes of the Left and the Liberals. [[You'd better finish.]] There were also words about a possible charge of nepotism. There will be no nepotism. The aim of the Institute is to create a substantive institution. Both the President and the members of the Board, but also the staff, must demonstrate appropriate competence in terms of family knowledge, demography and law, so that they can find employment at the Institute. A radical approach is an approach that rejects the constitution, the constitution that is in force, and it is unradical to refer to the constitution as regards the protection of life, as well as the protection of the family, the rights of parents or the rights of children. As regards the Life Programme, which Mrs Kotula asked about, it is an amendment to the Life Act, which consists of a proposal from Minister Wójcik, a proposal from the Ministry of the Family, and a proposal from the Parliamentary Team for Life and Family. I can tell you the project is ready. I hope that there will be a political decision soon and this project will go to the Sejm. I believe that the matter is important, and I also care, and I think that the majority of the High House cares about it. [[But it's not related.]] Mrs Kotula asked, so I answer. I'll send you, please... [[You've extended your speaking time.]] Mrs Skowronska, I ask you to remain calm. [[But always the marshal won't let us finish.]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm. Mr President, you are very close to the end. All the questions you want to answer, and you haven't answered, you can answer in writing, and then everyone will be able to read the answers. I will. In conclusion, I will answer the question that has been raised by several people. What are the tasks of the Institute? Once again: first, reliable analytical work, reliable scientific work related to family affairs, demographic policy, second, the creation of proposals for family policies, in terms of demography, thirdly, promotion of the family, conducting social programs that encourage Poles to have children, creating families that will create a friendly family climate, and fourthly, defending the constitutional freedoms and rights that have been enshrined in the Constitution, as enshrined in the Constitution. To conclude, I would like to say: Remember, I say this to both my colleagues and my opposition colleagues - the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u248	Thank you, sir. I agree that the constitution is very important and must be respected at all points. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 30 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As of November 28, 1918, I am ordering the Navy to become a Navy Colonel Bogumił Nowotny, head of the Navy Section at the Ministry of Military Affairs. Mr. and Mrs. Józef Piłsudski has been signed. This decree, formally creating a Navy, had significant consequences, issued in conditions when only a small part of the Polish lands was in our hands and actually burned all borders. Pomerania remained in German hands, and it seemed unlikely to be recovered at that time. The Act clearly articled Polish rights of access to the sea, and emphasized Polish claims against Gdansk. And what was the Polish Navy, our reborn Navy? She actually only existed on paper. Of course, it was built by officers and sailors who used to serve in the fleets of possessive states. The first base was the river port in Modlin, and before the Polish sailors entered the lead waves of the Baltic Sea, they passed a battle test, fighting on rivers and lakes during the Polish-Bolshevik war. The first battle of the Polish fleet was the battle at Chernobyl in April 1920, when Polish ships destroyed several Soviet units. The sailors also faced bravely in the famous battle of Warsaw, defending several armed ships on the left bank of the Vistula from winging Soviet troops. Many of them have been awarded the Order of Virtuti Militari. When the sea was finally accessed, this part of the coast began to work hard to prepare the fleet. Granted to us by allies' councils of ambassadors, several small ships did not satisfy Polish appetite. Unfortunately, the financial opportunities destroyed by the war, the newly created states, brought to earth those who saw Poland as a power at sea. In time, at the end of the 20's, a laborious and expansion of the Polish fleet began, whose potential was steadily increasing until 1939. It includes both modern, if not state-of-the-art, counter-torpedoes on the Baltic of the type Grom, two types of wind, five submarines, including two oceanic vultures and the famous Eagle, several trolls and mines. In the September campaign, the young fleet passed the test, even though some of the ships were evacuated to the UK. The British leased PWM dozens of units on which Polish sailors performed miracles of valour. It was made clear that if the war had started five years later, Hitler would have had bigger problems and our Navy would have been much stronger and more numerous. After 1945, conditions changed completely. Poland received a huge area of the Baltic coast, which required protection. Today, the Navy of the Republic of Poland faces difficult tasks, considering the powerful Russian team of ships stationed in the Kaliningrad region. When it comes to arming small, fast boats, I hope that the expansion of the fleet, water and underwater forces will result. Protecting our Coast is crucial for Poland's independence. The expansion of the Navy is essential to our country's security. Let's be smart before we get hurt. And it all started on November 28, 1918. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u250	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On 21 November, we celebrated Social Worker's Day. It is a Polish celebration celebrated under the provisions of the Act on Social Assistance of 29 November 1990. On 21 November commemorates the meeting in Charzykowo in 1989, in which Jacek Kuroń, Joanna Staręga-Piasek and employees of social assistance and voivodeship level participated. Social worker's day is a celebration of all social workers, but in particular social workers. What do social workers do? They help people and their families overcome difficult situations in life. They support beneficiaries of social assistance in the process of emancipation and social inclusion. They devote a lot of time and attention to stimulating social activity and inspiring self-help activities to meet the necessary needs of people, families, groups and social environments. They contribute to the inspiration, development, implementation and development of regional and local social assistance programmes aimed at improving quality of life. At the same time, social workers work with other specialists to reduce pathology and the effects of negative social phenomena and to counter them. In order for a social worker to be able to perform his or her tasks efficiently, he or she must meet many requirements that the Social Assistance Act establishes. This includes, on the one hand, the relevant specialist education acquired in the college for social services workers, in social work studies or in another direction, and, on the other hand, a two-stage professional specialisation. Currently, over 20,000 employees work in social centres and district family support centers. social workers. Thanks to social workers, many people get back on their feet and change their lives. Social workers are heroes who don't wear capes. Their profession often involves exposure to health or life. For all social workers on the occasion of their holidays, I wish them health, a lot of strength for every day, understanding for others, satisfaction with the work done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u252	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Kurzelov's pacification. The 78th anniversary of the tragic events of Saturday morning 1943 passed on 28 November 2021. On that day the German police from Włoszczowa and Kluczewska surrounded the Kurzels and his pacification began. About 60 men were brought from their homes and gathered in front of the building. The men who resisted were eliminated at the place of detention. Two people who tried to escape were already shot during the arrest - Tadeusz Szczucki and Franciszek Czainski, who died being brought out of his shop. Those who were brought in for questioning individually entered the building of the soundtrack. There were acts of violence during the interrogation. The men who were lucky were fired home, four were arrested, and 18 were locked in a booth called the mink, where Jews were selling meat before the war. It stood in the place where today there is the obelisk of Jan Brożek. At the end of the interrogation, 18 men were taken to a sandbox near the cemetery, where they were murdered. As they left, the Germans took with them four arrests: Felix Gradonski ps. Calm, Stanisław Gieronia, Adam Stępniewicz and Antoni Celebanski. Of the 20 murdered on that day, 19 people were buried in two graves next to each other at the place of execution at the so-called. A little cemetery. The knowledge of the victims is very poor. The parish books, which contain records of tragic death, were written only after the end of World War II. There is a belief that this crime has not been prepared because of the name of the person who made the list for the German occupier. It was a German agent working at the Kurzelów commune office. By this act he sentenced himself to death and was executed on the night of 18 to 19 March at the time of Włoszczów's command by the troops of the National Army. The victims of Kurzelov's pacification in the face of war and constant threat stood a wall behind the resistance movement and defenders of the homeland. At the moment, we are obliged to stand behind the Polish uniform, defenders of our borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u254	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, taking care of historical memory, I would like to present an important, although tragic event from the district of Tokarnia from 29 November 1944 and 4 December of the same year. Extensive military activities against guerrilla troops in the area of the Thinking District have been carried out by the German occupation since the summer of 1944. This was mainly due to the operation of guerrilla troops. In response to these actions and in order to protect their own facilities from the upcoming Eastern Front, Germany took radical and bloody measures to eliminate guerrilla groups. Zawadka's pacification plan assumed a simultaneous impact at dawn on 29 November 1944 from Trzebunia, Guardians, Pcimia, Krczniew, Tokarnia and Więcierzy. However, the Germans did not realize the arrival of the Żelbet Branches of the National Army on 23 November. The fight in Kotonia Mountains lasted from dawn until dark on 29 November 1944. Hitler's troops were over 3,000. Excellently armed people: machine guns, grenades, mortars, aerial reconnaissance. Less than 300 guerrillas who were poorly armed stood up against them. Despite the number, fire and surprise, the Germans failed to achieve the expected results, because the heroic attitude of the Bicza Żelbet II unit alerted and gave time to prepare the defense to the other guerrilla troops. In addition, the Nazis, confident in their advantage, were rubbing in rudely and chaoticly. At one point, they even started in thick fog a fierce fight among themselves, which increased their losses. According to the German side, nine policemen were killed, including two Petty Officers, and seven were injured. On the other hand, on the basis of intelligence information and reports of field troops of the National Army, Poles assessed the losses for several times more - several dozen killed and wounded. Unfortunately, the civilian inhabitants of Zawadka were also killed in the role of Tajsova before noon on 29 November 1944. Three men were killed directly from a gunshot wound to the back of the head. It was Józef Bednarczyk, Józef Bednarczyk son, Karol Tajs. On the other hand, Aniel Mizera and Andrzej Tajs died of stray bullets and then burned themselves in their burning houses. Andrzej Kowalik from the role of Jaworzyna was badly beaten and as a result died. At this point, it is also important to mention the anonymous resident of Krzczeniewo, who was chased to oblivion for driving the German towards Zawadka too slow and not the shortest way. Jan Rapacz, taken by the Germans from Zawadka on 4 December, disappeared without news, was probably murdered under unexplained circumstances. The soldiers of Zelbet died in battle and Andrzej Kowalik from Jaworzyna were transported the next day to the parish cemetery in Trzebuni and buried there. After the war, soldiers' bodies were exhumed and transported to the Rakowicki cemetery in Krakow. The remaining victims of the Zawadka pacification on the night of November 29 were buried in a common grave at the Krzczynów cemetery on the initiative of the commander of the guerrilla diversionary division Franciszek Pytlik, who prepared the transport of the murdered bodies and coffins for burial. Unfortunately, after a few days, because already on December 4, 1944, several hours before dawn, a criminal expedition was launched from Myślenice and Krakow going into Kotonia massif with the intention of punishing the inhabitants who helped the guerrillas and eliminating the potential guerrilla base. The area was also penetrated in search of missing Germans. The Nazi Occupant, following the absolute principle of collective responsibility, took revenge on the defenseless civilian population, who paid a huge price for the fact that Zawadka became a guerrilla base. All buildings have been burned down. The Germans did not only restrict their barbaric activities to Zawadka, they also burned houses in neighbouring villages. There are only roadside shrines and crosses and a wooden forge. More than 20 buildings were burned in the Tokarnia. Three farms were burned in Krzczynkowa. In Pcimiu, the occupier burned dozens of farms in different roles. Christmas, 1944. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Zawadka it was the saddest in the entire hundreds of years history of the village. All the survivors of the conflagration, without any means to live, took refuge in their relatives and friends in the surrounding villages during the cold and snowy winter... Thank you very much. ...to return to the ruins of the houses at the beginning of spring. After the war in 1964, on the initiative of the soldiers of the National Army and in cooperation with the local authorities, a stone obelisk was built on the role of Tajsowa in Zawadka, with two plaques commemorating the armed action of the Polish underground and the tragic death of the inhabitants. Thank you very much, sir. Each year in September there is a Holy Mass and celebrations commemorating the fights in Kotonia mountain massif and the tragic pacification of Zawadka. Part of their memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u256	Thank you very much. You're welcome to observe time discipline. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u257	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to present today a special commemorative statement concerning the ceremonial award of the awards: the Seal of Civil Meriti Civilis and the "Deserved for Polish Culture" in my home town of Mielec, which took place on 27 November 2021. The Civil Service Stamp shall be granted from 2016. It is the honorary award of the Association of Mielec Land Lovers, which receive the mints of outstandingly deserved for the land of Mielec and for the homeland. In the past they were, among others. decorated posthumously blessed. Fr. Roman Sitko, prof. Władysław Szafer - born on Mielecka's land, weapon gene Władysław Sikorski, brothers Działowski - Stanisław i Mieczysław, forerunners of Mielecki and Polish aviation, and living today, among others. Former Mayor of Mielca Janusz Chodorowski, aviation designer Józef Oleksiak or Fr. Prelate Kazimierz Chesak. This year's winners of the honorary decoration of the Seal of Civil Merit were: posthumously decorated Andrzej Kędzior and contemporary - Józef Witek. Andrzej Kędzior, briefly mentioned as saving from hunger and floods, was born on 7 November 1851, in Toporów near Mielce. His parents could not afford to finance his son's education in junior high school, so the son, highly gifted, earned as a tutor in wealthy colleagues whose parents helped him study in Vienna - first at the University of Technology, then at the Agricultural Academy, and then also at the University Law. After graduating in 1879, he received an engineer's position at the newly established National Bureau of Melioration in Lviv. Andrzej Kędzior personally wrote the Austrian Water Act, adopted in 1884. Thanks to him and his co-workers, rivers were flooded and agricultural lands of the Krakow-Sandomier Lowlands and the Vistula Valley above Krakow were dehydrated, as well as areas in the Dniestr basin, upper Bug, Styru. To this day, before the Vistula flood, Rudawa, Raby, Dunajec, Bnia, Trzęsówka, Sanu and countless other watercourses are if not a direct conceptual work of an engineer from Mielec, they were created according to the plans or projects outlined by him. His achievements were appreciated, among others. He was a bachelor of the Austrian Commander Francis Joseph and the Russian Order of Saint Anne. He was also the initiator of the construction of the Vistula-Odra-Dniestr channel, and was also responsible for the construction of the Vistula-Odra-Dniestr channel. Minister of Public Works in the Polish government Jędrzej Moraczewski and Leopold Skulski. Another consequence of appreciating Andrzej Kędzior's actions was his election as a Member of the National Sejm of Galicia, in 1908, 1911 and 1918, and as a Member of the Parliament of Austria-Hungary. He was a Member of the Polish Parliament in 1919 and in 1922 and 1927 he was a member of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. He was also awarded the Order of Polonia Restituta with a star. He died on 17 January 1938. He rested in a cemetery in Mielec. This year's winner is Mr.Józef Witek - an outstanding expert in the region, chronicler, cultural animator, socialist, author of books on the history of Mielec and the land of Mielec, among others. Four-volume Encyclopedia of the City of Mielce. Józef Witek is a native minchanian. For many years he was a choreographer and instructor of dance and music bands. Since 2000, he has only been writing books about Mielec. That's a dozen different positions, among others. about the streets and their patrons, as well as publications devoted to (The Bell) e.g. Music school or Steel Mielec. But most of his work cost him the creation of an Encyclopedia of the City of Mielce. In his book, the regionalist placed many thousands of passwords. Apart from people's biograms, there are information about streets and squares, geographical, natural, industrial, commercial, municipal or official passwords, so everything that consists of the life of the city. During the ceremony of handing out the Seal of Civil Merit, the award awarded to Mr.Piotr Pszenicz - distinguished artist and sculptor, member of the Creative Environment Club of the Mielec Land Lovers' Association for the 40th anniversary of the club was also awarded. I congratulate all those decorated, and thank you for the beautiful initiative of stopping passing time. I would also like to inform the honourable Members of the anniversary of the 75th anniversary of the Theatre of Diversity to them. Stefan Ostrowski in Mielec, a unique amateur theater exhibiting various kinds of performances. On 27 November, we admired the Variété Theatre, which, as always, showed the audience colorful and made with great intensity a spectacle. Congratulations to the artists and further success. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! More than 30 years since the third partition of Poland and 8 years since the creation of the Kingdom of Poland, so-called. In 1828, a secret society was established at the Podchoreżych Piechota School in Warsaw, headed by the priest. Piotr Wysocki. About 200 members joined the conspiracy. For several months, they were preparing for an armed speech. In 1829 there was an attempt on the life of Tsar Nicholas I during his stay in Warsaw. The year 1830 brought radicalisation of moods in the Polish Kingdom due to the deteriorating economic situation resulting from rising food prices and rising unemployment. In Warsaw there were spontaneous strikes and even minor riots. In July 1830 a revolution broke out in France, resulting in the overthrow of the Bourbons, and in August the Belgians started a fight for independence, which was intended to separate themselves from the Netherlands. This seriously disturbed the order established at the Vienna Congress in 1815, which was strongly opposed by the Czar Nicholas I. Announced on November 19th and 20th, 1830, the order giving an ambulance to the Russian army and the Polish Army faithful to the tsar as king of Poland forced Piotr Wysocki and other conspirators to take immediate action. The date of the outbreak of the armed uprising was set at 29 November 1830 hours. 18. During that time, about 6.5 thousand were stationed in Warsaw. Russian soldiers and about 10,000. Polish soldiers. About an hour. 18th a beer on Solc was set on fire, which was supposed to be a signal for all armed operations to begin simultaneously. Piotr Wysocki picked up more than 160 sick men. It was hoped to acquire the inhabitants of the Old Town and most of the troops of the Polish Army that had so far remained under the command of the Grand Duke Konstanty. The unwillingness to join the insurrection of the next generals who were recognized by the insurgents resulted in several of them being killed. The fears of a large part of the capital population, who were simply afraid of war and possible repression, were not good either in the first hours of the break-up. Nevertheless, during the night, the insurgents conquered all of Warsaw. The Grand Duke of Constantine did not decide to storm the capital, and his loyal troops withdrew to Wierzbno. Insurgents, just as among the people in the capital, began to contend with the factions of supporters of the open fight against the conservatives, that is, the supporters of negotiations and agreements with the Tsar as king. He opposed these agreements, among others. Joachim Lelewel, who created the agreement, created the Patriotic Club. One of the most active members of the Patriotic Club was Maurycy Mochnacki, who headed the Patriotic Society on December 1. On 3 December 1830, as a result of the pressure of the Patriotic Club, the Provisional Government was established with Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski at the head. The government included among others. Joachim Lelewel. As a result of negotiations with Prince Konstanty, Polish units were to return to Warsaw and Russian troops headed by the prince himself were to go towards the border. However, the Tsar did not accept any concessions. The Polish Sejm then announced a national uprising against Russia and in January 1831 deposed Nicholas I. The uprising turned into a Polish-Russian war. The Sejm held the State's sovereignty and appointed the National Government with Adam Jerzy Czartoryski as the leader. On 5 February 1831, the Russian army under the command of Field Marshal Ivan Dybich entered the borders of the Polish Kingdom. The war between Poles and the superior forces of the enemy began. Despite the heroism of Polish troops and the victory in some battles, the uprising finally fell after the surrender of Zamość on 21 October 1831. The formal act of surrender has never been signed. The November Uprising is alive in the memory of Poles until today. It is an example of the heroic struggle for independence of Poland, for honor and for Polish traditions. It is important to pay tribute to all national insurgents, especially the next anniversary of the November Uprising, and to those who fought against the dominant forces of the enemy in the war with Russia in 1831. In the year in which Poland was a de facto independent state for many months. Then came the time for unmerciful repression of Poland and Poles, but this is already a topic for another speech. At the end of my statement, I would like to express my gratitude to all those who contributed to the return to Poland of the temporal remains of Maurycy Mochnacki, the hero of that time, who finally ended up in Polish land, in the land of independent Poland, so the one he dreamed of and fought for. He returned on the 191st anniversary of the November Uprising. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Part of the memory of all those who grabbed the weapon and who carried out various actions for the independence of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u260	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for taking care of Polish works of art, for buying valuable collections and works for our nation. They become not only our spiritual property, but also our real property. The acceptance of artistic goods in this way shows a deep interest in building a lasting national identity. The most spectacular example of taking care of Polish collections is the redemption from the Foundation of Princes of Czartoryski works of art, among which are among others. paintings by Leonardo da Vinci, Rembrandt or Renoir. As we know, they were transferred to the National Museum in Krakow. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage also supports the purchase of works of art stolen during the war or lost in various circumstances, as well as paintings for museum facilities located not only in metropolitan areas, but also in smaller centres. One example of this activity is the purchase for the Regional Museum in Tarnów of another fragment of the Seven-Golden Panorama, a unique work that was created under the direction of Jan Styka. As a representative of the city known as the Polish Renaissance pearl, I would like to thank you very much for this. The theme of the Seven-Garden Panorama is the victorious battle for the capital of the Seven-Garden, which took place on 11 March 1849 under the command of the hero of two nations, originally from Tarnów, General Józef Bem. The District Museum in Tarnów already owns 24 of the 60 fragments of the Seven-Golden Panorama. They are exhibited in an extremely interesting and historic place, in the Gallery of Panorama, located in the railway station building in Tarnów. The recently obtained fragment in the first days of December will also be admirable here. This is all the more so because Tarnów is probably the most Hungarian of all Polish cities. Polish-Hungarian unions in Tarnów have a centuries-old tradition. In the history of Polish-Hungarian friendship specially recorded events from the period of the Spring of the Peoples, the years 1848 to 1849, when many Poles under the command of outstanding Polish officers fought for the freedom of the Hungarian people. The name of General Józef Bem, who was born, as I have already mentioned, was mostly written here in Tarnów and in this buried city. Not everyone knows that a nationwide celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Spring of the Peoples took place in Tarnów in 1948. Also here several years ago, international days of Polish-Hungarian friendship were organized. The town of Tarnów and the majority of the municipalities in the Tarnów region have partner cities in Hungary. In the centre of Tarnów and next to the Podtarnów Košice Wielki there are original sekler doors made by carpenters from the Seven-Garden. There are three in Poland - apart from Tarnow also in Stary Sącz. To conclude with the invitation to the beautiful Tarnów, once again thank you for financial support for buying another piece of Jan Styka's work called the Seven-Grodzka Panorama. It is, like the entire collection, the property of our entire nation, mentioned at the outset. The district museum in Tarnów does not stop searching for further fragments, and the plans are to create an entire exhibition which would be the only one on the national scale and serve as a unique role, such as the one. Racławick Panorama Museum in Wroclaw. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u262	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first stage of reconstruction of the historic bridge in Tczew was completed under the PO-PSL government. Since July 2015, the bridge has been renovated and the last stage of IIA's work began in 2019 and silence. Then even President Duda promised during the election campaign that he would support the renovation of this bridge. He said it was necessary to finish it, that he would do everything he could. The election's over, and the President hasn't done anything. Unfortunately, on 30 September 2019 the voivodship monument conservator stopped the works, and the measures that the old town reserved for the completion of stage IIA had to be secured before winter. That's about PLN 10 million. About PLN 200 million is needed to complete the complete repair of the bridge. That's the amount. unbearable by the district of Tczewski. Therefore, every year I submitted amendments to the state budget in order to obtain money to complete the renovation of this bridge. Unfortunately, the PIS Members, even those from Pomerania, from this region, did not support the granting of money for the old Tczewski region. And there were so many beautiful words that they would work for the good of the people... It's too bad to say. The county can't even afford its own contribution, which is necessary for government funding. The only solution is to change the owner of the bridge, which is why the district office in Tczew has been calling for years to take over the bridge by the State Treasury - unsuccessfully. For this purpose, I even wrote a draft law to take over this bridge by the State Treasury as a branch of the Museum of World War II. After all, World War II started on this bridge. Westerplatte could be taken over in Gdansk, and the bridge in Tczew could be taken over under the same conditions. Recently, in addition, the district office in Tczew applied to the government's local investment programme within the framework of the Polish Load to finance the renovation of the bridge construction project. The government has granted 684,000. For this money, however, the renovation cannot be accelerated, because it is the sum that has to be borne in connection with the cessation of works by the voivodship conservationist of monuments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the provincial monument conservator has been appointed by the PiS. I therefore appeal once again from this speaker to the government to take over the Tczew bridge as soon as possible by the State Treasury and its rapid reconstruction. This bridge is not only a magnificent monument of engineering architecture of the 19th century, but also an important communication route for residents between Tczew and Lisew Malborski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u264	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Adam Chmielowski is a Polish Franciscan monk, founder of albertines and albertines, insurgent, painter, saint of the Catholic Church. Known for his full dedication to work for the poor and the homeless. It is a character known throughout Poland, but also special for my city, for Puławy. He is the patron of the city and patron of the Roman Catholic parish. His name is also known as the Society for Helping them. St. Albert's brother. A few days ago, on Sunday 21 November 2021, the 30th anniversary was celebrated by the Puławy Circle of the Society for Assistance. St. Albert's brother. The mission of society is to bring together people of good will who want to act for the sake of the other man in the spirit of their patron through the creation of shelters, accommodation rooms, baths, kitchens that people need help with. Since the beginning of the hostel in Puławy, thousands of people have been sheltered and many other emergency services have been provided in the form of food, clothing or a single night's lodging. Circle of the company also carries out activities in the field of social assistance, including helping families and people in a more difficult situation of life and equalizing their chances and health protection, by combating addiction and social pathology. The hostel for men has about 40 fixed places, during the winter period, this number is increased if necessary. Provides shelter, daily meals, baths, clothing exchange, systematic pastoral care, contact with rehabilitation and social assistance. The celebrations of the Jubilee took place in the church of St. St. Albert's brother in Puławy and the parish hall. They began with Mass. Many prominent guests attended the celebrations, expressing respect and appreciation for the achievements of the company and thanking the management and all members involved in the work. A large group of wheel workers has been awarded with appropriate badges or diplomas. These workers are one large family of people who devote themselves to helping their needy neighbors, poor people who are unable to cope with the difficulties of everyday life, homeless people living apart from their families. Management and members of the Society's Puławy Circle on the occasion of the 30th anniversary I offer my heartfelt congratulations and thanks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u266	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the end of the month of November this year. The pedagogical Provincial Library in Bydgoszcz celebrated the 10th anniversary of the name of Marian Rejewski. This excellent Bydgoszczian, outstanding mathematician, brilliant cryptologist broke the German Enigma encryption machine. This had a profound impact on the fate of World War II. He contributed more to the victory of the Allies over Hitler than all armies, wrote about him by Jan Nowak-Jezioranski. In 2022 we will celebrate the 90th anniversary of breaking Enigma's code by Marian Rejewski. This mystery just before the outbreak of World War II in July 1939. The Poles passed on to the Allies and shared information on how to break the Enigma cipher. It is therefore worth presenting this unique facility, which is committed to promoting historical, civic and regional education with its achievements. The beginnings of the Pedagogical Provincial Library in Bydgoszcz and its collection dates back to 1921, when the Pedagogical Regional Library of the Pomeranian School District was established. Further fates caused the library to change its headquarters and location, eventually to grow into the educational space of Bydgoszcz since 1968. For more than 50 years the library has been one of the most active and significant institutions in the region, with a collection of 173 thousand. livestock units. It systematically expands the collection of pedagogical and psychological and sociological publications. Its rich collections, including archives and museums collected in the Museum of Education, which forms part of the structure of this institution, as well as all services are available to all interested residents of the region. The library regularly modifies and improves the attractiveness of the educational and cultural offer. It continues and develops several educational projects and proposes a rich set of educational activities. From the youngest through students, students, teachers to seniors, libraries can benefit from a varied offer. However, the most important thing is that the library based its educational activities on values confirmed by the life and activities of Marian Rejewski, for whom the best interests of the country were the most important. Therefore, for 10 years the Pedagogical Provincial Library in Bydgoszcz has popularized the merits of its patron in the region and in Poland, restoring Marian Rejewski and Polish cryptologists to the right place in the history of Poland and the world. Since the adoption of the name, the library has carried out an educational project called Marian Rejewski - bydgoszczanin, mathematician, cryptologist. More than 7 thousand took part in the lessons about Marian Rejewski. students. The exhibition under the same title in the larger and smaller cities of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship was visited by about 15 thousand. students, teachers and residents. The Library actively engages in the dissemination of historical memory and building its own identity of the young generation. Various and innovative forms of education develop competences and mathematical interests, intellectual and social skills, as well as support teaching activities of schools and teachers. It's an honor to get a patron's name, but it's also an obligation. The pedagogical library in Bydgoszcz distinguishes from other libraries the connection between the past and the present with a view to the future. Organizes exhibitions, conferences, seminars, workshops and competitions. For many years I have been privileged to observe the achievements and development of this institution. This library is a facility that takes care of the high quality of services provided, promoting the value of lifelong learning and improvement. It serves educational and improving teachers and students preparing for the profession. On the occasion of the anniversary, I wish the pedagogical library in Bydgoszcz a steady development in terms of library resources, infrastructure, and I wish the teaching staff to carry out their mission properly with a valuable educational, regional and cultural information centre. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u268	Thank you. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Self-governments from Lubuskie Land! If you'd like to make an earful, I'd like to thank you very much for what I did last week. It so happens that the parliamentary myth is reflected not only here, in the Parliament hall of the High House, but also in the district where we are doing organic work for our regions, in my case the land of Lubuskie. So the last week was a series of meetings with local government officials from local government units, to which I went to discuss again the next stage of preparation of projects under the Polish Load program. Therefore, I would like to thank Mr Józef Radzion first of all for wanting to accept me kindly, and to accept a symbolic check for an amount without a small PLN 15 million for the hospital of Żarski on the street. Wheat, and also for the discussion about what to do next. It seems to me, Joseph, old man, that the logic of events is obvious. There's a second step ahead of you, another stage at the hospital. If you can make sense of this money, you have to apply for another one so that the entire hospital complex can be upgraded. I think this will be the most logical path. By the way, I would like to ask the hospital's management to inform the people of Zar that this 15 million had been sent to the hospital for its expansion: the paediatric ward, the geriatric ward, etc., because there should be some symmetry. You have informed that your marshal has allocated some amount, it has been hanging for several months, and now it is also worth to say on balance about the Polish Lad. The next caller was a young uncle, Bobrowice, Mr Wojciech Wąchała, with whom we also talked about Polish Łady and the money that came to him. This is a significant amount of PLN 6 833 044 for modernization and extension of the water and sewage network. This is extremely important. This will allow the local government to make a comprehensive investment in this area. At the same time, we discussed how to develop ideas for the next edition of the Polish Order. You know, local roads, perhaps an extension of the offer of preschool places in the municipality of Bobrowice. One of the spectacular meetings was the meeting with the governor of the poorest rural community in Lubuskie territory, Mr.Jerzy Adamowicz, in the commune of Brzeźnica. I really like this town. She is one of the most charming, beautiful, but at the same time affected by the teeth of havoc as a result of the plan to close state farms. Therefore, this discomfort and such a lack of civilization is evident in this area. Therefore, Mr Jerzy Adamowicz, representing the Polish People's Party in the discussion with me, expressed his appreciation for the fact that 7 128 269.34 the zloty went to his commune. Now there's this colorful dizziness. There's a lot of money, a lot of investment. I'm sure you'll be able to handle it a long time ago. There was still a lot of meetings that I'm going to talk to you about next time. This does not change the form of things that these conversations with self-governments are the salt of the earth. It is precisely this approach to the sensitivity of local governments, the hosts of small homelands in dialogue with a Member to a compromise, which is worth running for here in Warsaw to support the local community, the land of Lubuskie and the development of our common homeland in general. Thank you for talking to me. I promise I'll come to you. As always.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u270	That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Allow me to present at the request of the trade union organisations part of the open letter addressed to the Management Board of PKP Cargo SA by associations operating in the South Department of PKP Cargo SA: We strongly object to any action aimed at personal change in the position of the Director of the Southern Department of PKP Cargo SA. Using the well-known, although in this case fully justified phraseology, which defines you as Director Mirosław Zborowski, it must be stated that he is the right person in the right place. Mr Mirosław Zborowski has been the director of the Southern Plant of PKP Cargo SA for over 3 years and despite the economic difficulties associated with the outbreak of coronavir and the extinction of the large furnace in Krakow-Nowa Huta on 8 October 2020, the failure of the power block on 3 August 2021 in Nowy Jaworzno, the allocation of employees to other plants, the transfer of traction work to PKP Cargo Service by decision of a member of the Management Board for. operating - the labour cost of the PKP Cargo Service driver on these trains is 12 000 per month. gross zloty at ca. 6 thousand. gross on a monthly basis in individual companies of the company - being at the head of the plant, successfully copes with any problems. It should be stressed that no person in this capacity was as ambitious and involved in the business as Mr Mirosław Zborowski. Mr Mirosław Zborowski rebuilt the reputation of the plant after his predecessor, which led him to a complete collapse, and strengthened the position of the plant on the freight market. Today, the southern plant occupies second place in the company in terms of transport work. The merits of your Director Mirosław Zborowski are numerous contracts, thanks to which the plant is stable and fully participating in the integrated company management system, oriented towards continuous improvement and adaptation of services to customer requirements, which obliges the company to deliver high quality services and maintain process security. It should also be stressed that Mr Mirosław Zborowski is a human being above divisions which can communicate with different trade union organisations, always with the best interests of the employee, the establishment and the company as a whole in the first place. Mr Mirosław Zborowski is not only at the head of the plant, but above all he fully identifies himself as a long-time employee of the company, with great knowledge and experience. He had previously held the post of Deputy Director for Foreign Affairs. operating and transport. Nor can we lose sight of the fact that, in view of the forthcoming end of the year, the cancellation of Mr Mirosław Zborowski would create uncertainty and possible perturbation of contracts for the next year currently in the negotiation phase, given that the person of your current director is known and appreciated in the transport industry, among our strategic clients PGG, Tauron and others. In view of the above, with the hope that they do not remain indifferent to you in the case of the Southern Company PKP Cargo SA, please take a positive look at our position in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u272	Declaration on sleep. Jolanta Brzeska for the premiere of the film "Locator." Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The premiere of the film "Locator" reminded everyone about the wild reprivatization of Warsaw's tenement houses, when Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz from the Civic Platform ruled the capital. Despite the great efforts of the Law and Justice, the consequences of this shameful activity continue to be felt today. In fact, we are the only party that cared about the fate of the tenants, including. setting up a committee on the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. I believe that the film "Locator" is not only a tribute to the brutally murdered tenant rights defender of the dead. Jolanta Brzeska, but also a reminder of the great harm of the inhabitants of Warsaw. I express my deep hope that the killers will be found and tried, just like all those responsible for the wildlife reprivatization. Jolanta Brzeska was an icon of the tenants' community and often the only hope in the fight against the soullessness of officials and so-called. Stonestones. Peace of her soul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u273	The 103rd anniversary of women's electoral rights. 28 November 1918 The Polish people received equal voting rights with men. State Warden Józef Piłsudski then signed a decree on electoral ordination to the Legislative Sejm. There weren't any in those days. It's so obvious. The fact that women in Poland received electoral rights earlier than in the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Switzerland should be emphasized and strongly exposed. This happened only in 1971. I think it is significant that it is Poland, which, by the authorities of the Western world of politics, culture or media, is referred to as a backward and austere country, which has granted women electoral rights earlier than many other countries today, which are considered to be progressive and presented as a model in promoting democratic attitudes. As I have pointed out above, I believe that there is a need for a stronger global display of this fact. Perhaps it should be considered in the media, scientific, or even entertainment sphere.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u274	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the main page of the Polish Police, in the tab: Work, under the slogan "How to become a Police employee," we can find this description: Police are an institution in which not only people wearing uniform work. It's also a place where employees will find employment. In units all over Poland there are available places for testimonials and specialists in various fields. Important and responsible tasks supporting police activity are waiting for educated and solid people who do not wear uniforms. Most people are associated with a blue uniform. Few people know that this institution is 20% civilian workers. Without them, it would be difficult to imagine the functioning of such a powerful formation. The whirlpool carried out by civil servants in the Police is very diverse. He emphasizes very clearly the importance of specialists in various fields, which assist officers on a daily basis. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that these important civilian workers are forced to protest for decent wages. At the end of September this year. The police negotiated a raise with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. From January 1, 2022, their salaries will increase by PLN 677 gross, or PLN 500 per hand, already included valorisation in the amount. 4.4%. salaries. Unfortunately, crazy inflation does not allow you to agree with Minister Mariusz Kaminski that 500 PLN will somehow improve the financial situation of the officers. However, it is more alarming that as much as 50% of almost 25 thousand. the civilian police personnel under the authority of the Minister, despite their important role, do not even receive a minimum wage. They earn more than 50% less than police officers. Without civilian workers, who are often specialists in their fields, the work of officers will be paralyzed and, at best, there will be a significant reduction in standards. It is difficult to find a rational reason for such large disparities in the wages of police officers and civil servants, since only through efficient cooperation can they fully perform their professional duties. You're talking about the Polish uniform. It is time to note that these uniforms are behind equally important workers and equally important civilian workers who deserve a decent salary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u275	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Next Friday, 3 December, as every year we will celebrate International Day of Disabilities, a celebration established by the UN General Assembly in 1992 at the end of the decade of people with disabilities. The purpose of the event is to bring the public closer to the problems of people with disabilities, i.e. those with limitations in the proper functioning due to reduced physical or mental fitness or deficiencies in the structure and functioning of the body. On this day, we pay attention to the activities aimed at integrating this group into social life. Celebrations are also an opportunity to raise public awareness of the benefits of the integration of people with disabilities in every aspect of political, social, economic and cultural life. I would like to remind the High House that the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities on 13 December 2006. According to its provisions, people with disabilities have the right to freedom and security, freedom of movement, including equal access to public spaces and buildings, transport, information and communication, health protection, education, private and family life and participation in political and cultural life. It is extremely important that we, as parliamentarians, always remember the needs of people with disabilities and their families in the exercise of our mandates. It is impossible not to mention the sick themselves and their families here. I would like to thank you and wish you perseverance in the fight against adversity. I believe that your determination and constant effort are a tangible step towards recovery. The best wish for you should, despite everything, be a wish to succeed in overcoming everyday hardships. I'm pretty sure it's us, so-called. Full-timers, we can learn a lot from you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u276	Declaration by the Members on the priority road investment in the district of Luban. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The road network in Poland is growing at an express rate. The quality of roads improves from year to year and their total length increases. The breakthrough was the entry of Poland into the European Union, because since 2004 the network of high-speed roads in our country has been extended almost eight times, motorways - more than four times, and express roads - more than sixteen times. We can undoubtedly admit that we owe this dynamic development of road infrastructure to EU funds. However, many regions still require infrastructure investments. One of these regions is the Luban district, where the construction of the Lubania ring road is an extremely important investment due to the safety and development of the city. Currently, there is a national road no. 30, DK30, which plays the role of the last direct road connection for DK3 and DK94 before the national border. Cars and trucks moving along the Jelenia Góra - Zgorzelec route are forced to pass through the city centre, which is burdensome both for residents and for road users. The inhabitants of Lubania and the surrounding area have often paid attention to too much traffic and strong air pollution in connection with road transport. The need to build the Lubania ring road has been mentioned for almost two decades. In 2020 the bypass of Lubania within DK30 was included in the list of the reserve government construction programme of 100 bypasses. There are seven tasks in Lower Silesia, and three tasks are reserve, including a task involving the Lubania ring road. The fact that locals and residents are included on the reserve list gives hope for change. I believe that in the near future the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and the Ministry of Infrastructure will lean on the problem described and speed up the construction of the Lubania ring road, meeting the expectations of residents and drivers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u277	A few days ago, Poland 2050 submitted a bill in the Sejm to protect Poles from expensive fuels. Its purpose is to suspend the collection of the issue fee. Thanks to this, fuel prices will fall, and in the pocket of Poles there will be about 2 billion PLN. Let me remind you that a few weeks ago we offered five Holovnias. These are five concrete solutions, the aim of which is to protect Poles from the effects of inflation and the crazy cost. In addition to today's solution, we propose a reduction in VAT to 20% and 7% And we've already filed a bill. We also propose to allocate about PLN 12 billion for CO2 emissions for energy subsidies, to allocate PLN 6 billion from gas arbitrage to reduce gas prices and to suspend the Polish Government for at least one year. We promised that we would implement this consistently, and that is what we are doing. The project we are presenting today concerns a reduction in fuel taxation. The issue fee we want to suspend is the tax that was introduced by the PiS government in 2018. Thanks to this, the government wanted to finance, among others. an electromobility program with a million electric cars. It turned out to be a failure. But the lasting result is higher fuel prices. Today, this fee is the revenue of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Development Fund for Bus Transport. I would stress that we do not want these funds to be deprived of funding. Therefore, in the draft law, we have stated that the funds for these purposes will be transferred from excise duties. For 2022 it was planned that excise duty would amount to PLN 78.5 billion. This is PLN 3 billion more than in the revised budget for 2021. That means there's a lot of space to reduce taxes on fuel. The government hasn't done anything about it so far. Our project is the first. As far as suspension time is concerned, it is linked to an inflation target. The suspension will continue until inflation is 2.5% over the next 12 months with the possibility of shifting up or down to 1 percentage point. It is worth recalling that half the price of fuel is different taxes. I don't think there's any other thing that's so common on the one hand, and it's so expensive and so tax-bound on the other. Maintaining this situation in a situation of crazy prices is immoral and extremely harmful to society, so we have taken firm and concrete action on this matter and have prepared a good solution. I would like to point out that it was possible to submit the project through the cooperation of Members from certain clubs and opposition groups. We've collected 22 signatures. This shows that cooperation for the benefit of citizens continues. I would like to thank the Members of the Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives, from the Jarosław Gowin Agreement and the Polish Case Circles and Mr Rozenk of the Left for feeling responsible for the economic security of the citizens who supported our bill. We expect that in our sense of responsibility our project will support all clubs and wheels in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-30-sejm-43-1.u278	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 1 December 2021, at 1 p.m. 9. Thank you all so much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 45]]
