ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting only to establish a list of senators currently taking part in the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please report the results. 67 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. High Izbo, let me remind you that, according to yesterday's decision, we will begin our deliberations with the examination of paragraph 25: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Then we'll return to point 12. I would also like to remind you that at 12.00 a half-hour break will be announced for the opening of the exhibition entitled: An animal is not a thing. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 409, and the committee's report In print No 409 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am absolutely convinced that we have started working on one of the most important legislative initiatives during this term of the Polish Senate. The draft which I present on behalf of the 3 Joint Committees The Commission for Lawmaking, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy is a project that meets the social expectations of Polish senior citizens who have reached the age of seventy. The draft law on amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and some other laws is a project that in practice solves an extremely important problem, a broad phenomenon that we are dealing with in Poland. This problem is linked to the fact that older people, which are natural, are people who have a lot of diseases of old age, often co-morbidity, and who in practice have to devote a large part of their income to buying medicines. The rising prices of medicines, the high level of pay for medicines makes seniors more often than the rest of society, due to their economic situation, give up buying parts or, unfortunately, even all the medicines they should take. This, of course, contributes to the overall deterioration of their health. In the course of our work in the Senate we could learn about the general health status of Polish seniors, as well as about the expenditures Polish seniors bear on medicines. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have a feeling, Mr. Marshal, that I'm disturbing some of the senators a little bit. [[I draw your attention because this feeling of your rapporteur is not entirely unfounded. You're welcome, Senator.]] Ladies and gentlemen, non-pharmaceutical treatment by seniors over the longer term results in an increase in the cost of new and more expensive treatments for the state budget, e.g. hospital treatment that could be avoided if the person concerned had previously taken medicines that he could not take for financial reasons. This problem has been recognised by the decision-makers of many European countries and in all European Union countries there are systems to support drug purchases or even to provide medicines free of charge to senior citizens. It is precisely because this age group will encounter economic barriers in this area and at the same time have increased health needs in the context of the purchase of medicines. A similar conclusion was also reached by the Polish government, introducing a programme "Leki 75+" 5 years ago in order to combat the fact that some elderly people do not have access to treatment for economic reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, the free medicines programme for those who have completed seventy-five years of age - medicines, foods for particular nutritional uses or medical devices - the list of which is published by the Minister for Health As we can say today from the perspective of these years, it has brought positive results. It has had positive effects due to the significant increase in access in this age group to the possibility of using medicines that are assigned to the individuals concerned. But it should be noted that this problem is not a problem that starts at the age of 75. The person who is 70 years old is exactly the same senior. He is a person who already has pension rights, he is a person whose health condition is often also a complex health condition, a person who often suffers from many diseases, and has concomitant diseases. And he is also a person who, not only for health reasons, but also for financial reasons, is often faced with the same barriers in the sense of the lack of real ability to buy out all the medicines that are necessary for him to take good care of his health. That is why we have proposed a Senate legislative initiative in this area. I would like to thank all the senators who supported this proposal with their signature or later, in the course of legislative work in the joint committees, for this legislative initiative. What do we propose in the project? The recommended solution is to extend the scope of persons entitled to free supply of medicines, foodstuffs for special nutritional purposes and medical devices with recipients who have completed not seventy-five years of age, as today are defined by the provisions on, by contract, free medicines and already seventy years of age. The expected effect of regulation is to improve the actual access of older people to pharmacological treatment and to reduce the phenomenon of non-buying prescribed medicines for economic reasons. Nor do I have any doubt that this change in the case of persons between seventy and seventy-five years of age who are not buying medicines today for financial reasons will lead to a reduction in spending on their later hospital treatment. So, on the one hand, we have, of course, an increase in expenditure from the state budget for medicines, but in the near future we will have a reduction in budget expenditure for the treatment of those seniors who, unfortunately, unfortunately, for economic reasons, cannot buy in whole or in part. Ladies and gentlemen, let examples of how this problem is resolved in other countries of the European Union show the need for this legislative solution. Poland is a member of the family, the Community of European Union countries Or in OECD countries, i.e. in more developed countries in the world, including groups of countries, OECD countries, Poland is also one of them. During the legislative work in the Senate we were able to use extensive materials. We used a comparative analysis, which was an analysis of solutions adopted in Poland and in other countries of the European Union. This was also an analysis which the Supreme Audit Chamber used to control spending under the 75+ free medicines scheme. We also used the analysis we ordered as joint committees with Prof. Nowak-Fara. This was an analysis of the solutions of the draft law on amending the law on healthcare provision, which we are working on, against the background of regulations in other selected countries of the European Union. What is the result of these analyses? From these analyses it is clear that in a large part of the European countries the subjective scope and the relevant aid for seniors is far wider than in Poland. We have different models of solutions here. If we are talking about the scope of the aid, for example. in the UK, the age limit from which senior citizens can benefit is not 75 years, as is now in Poland, it is not 70 years, as we propose in the Senate legislative initiative, but Attention, 60 years. The scope of the aid is also far broader in a large part of the European Union. In Poland, the list of these products, medicines, special purpose foods or medical devices is given on the list prepared by the Minister of Health. Unfortunately, as you compare this list, it's... In most of these countries, which we should compare with due to the degree of economic development and wealth, this scope, also in terms of medicines that seniors can use, is unfortunately, from the point of view of Polish seniors, much wider. Analyses that we have been able to get acquainted with also show that these lists are often supplemented not only with free medicines, but also with medicines, for example. with a symbolic or small fee, which allows for an even greater extension of the range of assistance that seniors can benefit from. And so on. It's an example. In Germany, such aid schemes are in place for patients to buy medicinal products that, when they exceed a certain amount, all medicines bought by the elderly in the following year are issued free of charge. This system is also supplemented in Germany so that seniors suffering from chronic diseases pay in proportion to the price of medicines, but not more than 10% It's the size of it. In the UK, as I said, a senior who receives prescription drugs free of charge is a person over 60 years of age. In France and Italy, seniors with chronic diseases receive total reimbursement of the costs incurred in purchasing medicines. Ladies and gentlemen, in the analyses that we have been able to get acquainted with, we have also been able to familiarize ourselves with the solutions adopted in the countries of our part of Europe, namely Central Europe. They were e.g. analyzed solutions from the Czech Republic or the Baltic States. All these analyses clearly indicate: in Poland we must, we should extend help in the field of free medicines for Polish seniors. The project we have prepared as a legislative initiative of the Senate has been widely consulted, we have sent it to dozens of actors. Of course, we have received differing opinions. On the one hand, This is, for example, an example. the opinion of representatives of organizations that group Polish seniors, or representatives of local governments of medical professions, express their support for the proposed regulations. E.g. The Polish Union of Retirement, Retirement and Invalidity assessed the proposed solution as fully valid, and granting 70+ age group the right to free supply of medicines, special foods or medical devices in the assessment of the Polish Union of Retirement, Retirement and Invalidity increases the economic availability of these products and thus contributes to improving health care for the elderly. Some entities, such as the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund or the Ombudsman, the Supreme Court, have not submitted any comments on the project. And, of course, there are opinions like the opinion of the Minister of Health... By the way, I have to say that I'm surprised that the Minister of Health is the one. Let's add: Minister of Health of Poles, including health of seniors The proposed regulation was negative in his opinion. But why, ladies and gentlemen? Because in his opinion he pointed out that work is ongoing on a government project of solutions concerning the issue of free supply of medical supplies to recipients as part of the Polish Ład program. At this point I must say that at the committee meeting there was a very awkward situation that a representative of the government, in this case the Deputy Minister of Health, justified a negative opinion... [[Cell phone signal]] [[Someone's phone is being made.]] [[Voice from the room: Already...]] [[Okay.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a representative of the government of the government, I would like to stress: public officer, Deputy Minister of the Polish Government A negative opinion on the Senate legislative initiative justified that one political party, in this particular case, the PiS, in its political programme... was working on solutions for this area. I must say that I was embarrassed by this situation, that a representative of the Polish government with party-political documents justified a negative attitude towards the draft legislative initiative of the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed regulation, as I said, extends the scope of persons entitled to free supply of medicines, special foods or medical devices. It is clear that the increase in drug spending results in an increase in public finance expenditure, but reduces expenditure on the treatment of those who will benefit from these medicines. The impact assessment, which has been prepared and attached to the project, estimates that the financial impact of the proposed regulation on a yearly basis will range from 210 million in 2021 to 800 million in 2025. So you could say And that's how it's defined in the impact assessment, of course we have this analysis. That in total it will be about PLN 3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, summing up the information on the proposed legislative initiative, I would like to thank you very warmly at this point for these dozens of individual reactions to this project, for the hundreds of signals that have come from the state, from Polish seniors who clearly appreciate this regulation. I don't have any doubts. And thank you for that. The fact that Polish seniors today are looking into the Senate meeting room and have a deep hope that each of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators in this room will support this project, support it in order to increase the health of Poles, will support it so that the Polish senior does not stand at the counter at the pharmacy before making a dramatic choice of money for drugs or spending money for other needs. I notice and appreciate various government regulations that support Polish seniors, e.g. in the form of supplementary pension benefits, but studies show that despite these additional elements of financial support, too many of the Polish seniors are facing a dramatic situation, which often ends in such a way that the senior does not buy medicines prescribed to him by the doctor due to other needs that he needs to meet. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Joint Committees, I warmly ask you to accept this proposal. At this point, I would also like to thank the President, Beata Małecka-Libera, for her extremely valuable contribution to this project, and also for some additional proposals that will facilitate the use of the proposed solutions and which you have included in the relevant amendment to the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that it is the same person, because the applicants also authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Major. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Any initiative aimed at improving the quality of life of older people is very valuable, so we are very happy to welcome this initiative. Nevertheless, we will not avoid questions about what the joint committees have presented to us. I have two questions, Mr. Chairman. I would like the President to kindly remind you of the discussion that took place at the committee's meeting, the discussion around the age limit that the committees are proposing in their draft. We talked about him being there... At the moment, medications are free of charge from the age of seventy-five, and the proposal for 70 years is in the project. We know that these periods of old age are very different. One might ask: if we are going to be seventy years old, why not to be sixty? I would very much ask you to remind me of this case. The second question concerns the analysis which was presented at the committee meeting. This analysis was very interesting, and it was interestingly presented by Professor Fara, but, as I recall, this analysis focused mainly on the European countries, the countries of the European Union, but from this western part of Europe, but these are highly developed countries. And from among the groups of countries that have been taken into account, the status similar to the Republic of Poland actually presented solutions only to small countries such as the Czech Republic and probably Latvia. Is that what happened? If the senator would be kind enough to remind you of this discussion... I think she, too, will shed a lot of information and light on the absolutely valuable legislative initiative presented by the committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u5	You're welcome. I remind you of the time, because yesterday, when I was watching the proceedings, doing other activities, I noticed that the tendency to ask questions that last far longer than a minute was strengthening. I'd like to inform you. That, God forbid Senator Majer, because there were more sinners. That I will expect the marshals to enforce this 1 minute. I would also ask you to keep your speeches longer, possibly for other parts of the debate. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Each of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. In the context of the second question In addition to hearing what Professor Nowak-Far said at the meeting, he was able to read the detailed analysis prepared by your professor. Ladies and gentlemen, in this analysis, it is enough to open it, for example. on page 12, you have detailed discussions in such countries: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Spain, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Latvia, Malta, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Hungary and Italy. From these countries, such countries as Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Hungary are in our part of the continent. In the second part, it was basically the first question, the senator asked why the age limit was at the age of seventy, not the age of sixty. I am prepared to make an amendment today to reduce this border, as is the case in the United Kingdom, to make it to the age of sixty. But I also have a question for the senator. Does this mean that if I make such an amendment, Mr. Senator will support this project with the entire PiS Senate club? Because the truth is that I have the indisputable impression that your question is not meant to be aimed at supporting the project, but to show that it is possible to go further and, at the end, the state will either not vote or will abstain because of the position of the government, which is against, so as not to vote against the government's position, but at the same time pretend that you support solutions beneficial for Polish seniors. If you are not pretending, and you are in favour, then vote in favour, and the senator will report an amendment to reduce the border to 60 years of age. I publicly declare that I will support her. And that was the discussion at the committee meeting. We proposed seventy years of age just so that there would be less arguments to try to block this law, so that there would be less arguments of this nature, that these are expenses for which there is no money. I will not be malicious at this point and will not remind you of what money from the state budget is often spent on, but certainly not on such necessary matters as the health of Polish seniors.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u7	Thank you very much. You're asking a question, Senator Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u8	Senator rapporteur, did the committee, the group of people who were involved in this project, estimate what would be the increase in expenditure from the state budget to cover these intended improvements in benefits? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u9	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes. As I said, these OSRs in the context of the year, also due to the fact that the rules would come into force, are between 200 million and several hundred million more, and in the period being assessed. In this regard, I would like to refer to the relevant section of the OSR. It is estimated that the financial impact of the proposed regulation will range from 210 million in 2021 to 800 million in 2025, and that the total financial impact of the proposed regulation by 2025 can be estimated at ca. PLN 3 billion 200 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u11	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Welcome to the meeting of the representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u12	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief because I was called to the board by Senator Kwiatkowski. I would just like to refer to the negative position of the government, because I think it requires additional explanations. In a letter sent to both your marshal and your president, we have given these reasons. But maybe one at a time. First of all, I thank you for the praise of the program. Because both Mr President's statement, to a large extent, as well as what is in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, in the impact assessment of the regulation, that is to say praise, is to show that this programme This can be said with full responsibility after 5 years of operation. We can see that seniors over the age of seventy - five have indeed been relieved. These subsidies, which were earlier, are now significantly smaller, practically minimized to zero, which is in these legislative documents. As for the negative position of the government... I think this discussion was also at the committee meeting, attended by Minister Miłkowski, today I am pleased to replace him. I think it is important to understand the approach to projects that generate significant changes, and systemic and financial, as it is in this case. First of all, I cannot agree with the fact that it is wrong for Minister Miłkowski to refer to the Polish Lad, because, as we well know... Perhaps, as the President says, it is a party document, but, well, you should be aware that the government obviously participated in the work on it, had a contribution to this project, the projects were also consulted with the government in this area. This project, mentioned in the Polish Łada, has been analyzed by us before. I mean... It is worth looking at a certain evolution of the program "Leki 75+. Those medications that are included in the program today... This list is quite different, it is much wider than the original list. So not only did we try to make some evolution of this system, but we also implemented it, we planned further evolution, actually expressed in Polish Łada, evolution, which in part is very similar to those solutions that we are talking about today. Minister Miłkowski also clearly spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that we are working on a bill that maybe, and certainly is slightly different, I think it is a bit wider than the draft prepared by the senators. First of all, in this general, programmed document, concerning the Polish Load, we have written not only that we want to work on the extension of the mentioned group of people of age 70+, but also that in the case of some diseases we would like to go further, i.e. to include these solutions of people of age 60+, to make it more dependent, for example, on whether the disease is chronic or not. It's one of the changes. The second of the changes, perhaps more difficult to receive, is the change related to the financing system of this project. As the senator rightly pointed out, And as a general rule, we agree on the level of the amount. The impact of this regulation could be up to PLN 800 million per year over several years. Well, you have to bear in mind that this is a big financial effort and this is a huge amount of money that needs to be allocated to this programme. I remind you that today's program "Leki 75+" is less than PLN 1 billion. So an additional few hundred million, 800 million zlotys is also an important financial challenge. That is why the government's position is negative, that this financial challenge must be carefully and meticulously analysed, and internally, at the Ministry of Health, and discussed with the Ministry of Finance, for example. Of course, we also announced... And even last week, the Council of Ministers adopted a proposal for a law on increasing health expenditure, an increase from 6% in the end. GDP up to 7% GDP and a significant acceleration of these 6% GDP, because this would be in the following financial year, 2023. But it must also be borne in mind that in the sum of the expenditures that we have today, much greater than a few years ago, And access to new resources we need to allocate this responsible for the tasks. We have declared that we want to endure And we've already lifted the limits to a specialist since 1 July. We've declared higher wages for medical personnel. This was done, for example, in the recently adopted minimum wage law. Our responsibility is that, unfortunately, these consequences must be counted and some sources of funding must be found. Therefore, the discussion about the program "Lekki 75+" or, as I said, about extending it to certain groups of patients who are chronically even in lower age groups. It will be a big financial challenge and a big analytical work to find these resources responsibly. The senator said today that he would be happy to make an amendment on seniors 60+, if the Law and Justice Club would support it. I don't think it's a promise machine, either. Because in total, you could say this is why 60+, let's introduce medicines free for all Poles. I think it would sound good, but the question is: what and how would such huge challenges be financed? I would also like to draw attention to one more thing. I think I'm going out of the Ministry of Health for a while, but it is affecting the 75+ programme and further, let's say, movements and evolutions in this area. Since the implementation of the 75+ programme, as mentioned by the senator, this has been a few years ago, five years ago, and some systemic conditions for older people have changed significantly. 13th and 14th pensions, announced changes in income tax, issues related to support at the level of local government and what is being implemented in this area... I think this world looks a little different today, and I think it must also be taken into account in the subsequent evolutions of this program. So that, Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, this assessment is mostly negative because we want to take financial analysis seriously, carefully and meticulously. Because 800 million zlotys is not a mess of the budget we have at our disposal. May I remind you that these are not the resources of the National Health Fund It's important, too. The funds of the 75+ programme are the resources of the state budget, so these are the funds that the state budget transfers in the form of grants to the National Health Fund. This less than PLN 1 billion is today on a budget scale of the Minister of Health is a few strong percentages, so increasing this twice makes it necessary to find this space. And Minister Miłkowski declared that, as part of the work on the bill that was announced earlier, we will carry out such analyses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I give the floor to Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, who is sitting remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, I work with older people every day. It's not like that in the program 75+ drugs are free, because there are actually the cheapest drugs, drugs for 7 or 8 zł and it's very clever. But this group of sick seniors also need drugs that cost more than 100 PLN. The Polish senior has to spend his funds on them, and there is no refund here. I mean so-called. oral anticoagulants, which you and the rapporteur, Senator Kwiatkowski, also referred to. They refund other countries in Europe. Treatment with these drugs... The recommendations are that we reduce the number of strokes. But the Polish senior does not have state aid here today. And to my office, my practice doctor's office, a cardiologist who treats such patients... I'm writing out these shivering-handed medications because I know these people have to give up their food to buy this medicine, and there's no other better treatment that doesn't result in unwanted action. And here's my question: when are you going to lean on the real rate of medication for seniors after the 70's or the 70's? At this age, there is an increased risk of stroke, atrial fibrillation. This is a very large group of sick people. I see you're avoiding this subject, and I have a specific question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u15	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u16	Thank you. Senator, I can't agree with you here. The figures, and the figures quoted in the draft law that we are investigating today, i.e. the numbers not put forward by the government, only by a group of senators who have come out with such an initiative, point to something quite different. If we look at the effects of the 75+ programme, if we look at the table in Annex 3 to the impact assessment, we will see This is evidently seen in the fact that, in fact, patients' payments for total drug expenditure have decreased significantly. In 2015, they accounted for 33.6% , in 2020 0.9% So less than 1%. Well, that shows In my opinion, it's quite clear It's not like this list of drugs, which is in the 75+ program, fills up some small part, it totals 99%. expenditure on medicines for this group of persons. What else? And I don't agree with the fact that once we take care of the reimbursement of these drugs for real... As I said before, we are gradually expanding this list of medicines, which is also seen in further data, because I would remind you that in 2017, for example, the budget of this project was less than 500 million and the share of these drugs was 15%. in total drug expenditure. And already in 2020 this budget was more than one and a half times greater, 755 million PLN, which is mainly linked to the extension of these lists. So I cannot agree with this thesis, which is also stated in the explanatory statement, in the impact assessment of the regulation that the Senators have prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u17	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u18	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, a simple question. How much do you spend on statistical senior 70+ in terms of funding his drugs? How much is that on 1 statistical senior 70+? I'm asking because the statistics have it in them that if you make a thousand and I make zero, we average 500 zlotys. And that's the problem. If I hear that the problem of funding, in accordance with the OSR prepared by the applicants of this law, concerns the amount of 800 million in 2025, and this year on public radio, television has been allocated over PLN 2 billion, then saving the government and saying that there is no money, I do not think it is the right argument. So I'm asking you to tell me how much you spend on 1 statistical senior. And second question. How far are you advanced in the work on the bill you are announcing and which is supposed to be a solution to all the problems and a solution better than what we are proposing today and immediately? At which stage of the process of this law are you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u19	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u20	Of course today in terms of per capita... Well, I'd have to equip myself with a calculator here, but I'll try to quote the data we have. If we're talking about a group of citizens of 70.75+, because I understand that this is what the senator asked about, then the total cost of medicines that today is estimated by the National Health Fund is about 1.6 billion. Of this part refunded by the National Health Fund is about 65% That is over PLN 1 billion. That's pretty much what this parity is. And it's similar to the one that affected 75+ patients in 2015. So that's about 2/3 to 1/3. On the other hand... [[May I? I'm sorry. Because I see you're going to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u21	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u22	Thank you very much. Minister, I'll give you a hint. I don't want to be exactly... But these were amounts not exceeding 10 zlotys per statistical patient, 4,55.4,75.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u23	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u24	Mrs. Senator, as in my head, I'm counting on it, which is PLN 1 billion for a refund from the National Health Fund divided into about 2 million people in this age group, I certainly can't make it 10 PLN. It's for quick, but if we find the calculator, we can count it. I would also like to point out that drug subsidies alone are not the only expenses we are talking about in the system, they are not the only medicines we are talking about in the system. We are talking, above all, about medicines available in the pharmacy sector as part of 75+ medicines, because other medicines available, for example, as part of oncology programs, as part of medication programs of rare diseases, etc., etc., etc., are of course available for these patients in hospital treatment. As for the work on the bill, Senator, I will say this: because it is one of the most important projects which, as I said, requires much more analytical work, I think that the end of this year is the earliest time when such a project will be presented to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u26	Minister, is it as if you're racing for populism, because those words were written here, that this bill is populist... Can you answer my question: what do you think is more important, 14th retirement or free meds for seniors? If you choose... How much does a 14th pension cost, and how much does it cost... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down. There you go, Mr. Senator, continue.]] How much does a 14th pension cost for the state budget, and how much would it cost to reduce this age to 70 when it comes to free drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u27	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u28	Mr. Senator, I didn't say this bill was populism. I was talking about the fact that the proposals for today to accept amendments concerning 60+, 50+, or even less, would be a certain populism and that would be a certain making of promises without covering. Well, these are questions we can ask ourselves... I have been responsible for the budget for 3 years, so I often receive it when working on the budget bill. Is it worth buying 2 tanks or better to renovate 1 hospital? Is it worth building a road, or is it better to choose to expand medication lists? As a representative of the health department, of course, I say that I am primarily interested in those projects that will provide funds to the health department budget. But as a representative of the government, the responsible government, I am aware that these decisions must be taken in a reliable and responsible manner, allocating resources to different sectors. Because it's not like the only challenge we have, for example, is the problem. availability of medicines. We also have other problems in the health sector itself. I think it's a little bit of a discussion that I don't think there's a finale because we can't judge that. The 14th pension clearly supports seniors, also in some access to medicines. After all, the 14th pension belongs not only to 75+ people, but also to those in lower age groups. She improves their situation and clearly increases their capabilities. I would not like to be involved in this discussion. As a representative of the health department, I always support the most projects of the health resort and those that go to Polish patients.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u29	Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry. But you didn't answer my question.]] Exactly. Do you want to ask if you want to... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: I do not know what more I could answer.]] Good. It's...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u30	My question was this: what is the cost of this project that reduces age to 70, and how much does it cost to retire 14 if you count it, even when it comes to people aged between seventy and seventy-five? I understand the Minister doesn't have that calculated... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Can the Minister reply in writing?]] Then I'll ask you to answer in writing so we can understand each other...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u31	The Minister will respond in writing to the senator. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: I understand. Absolutely.]] Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'm in the 75+ group and I'm in the pharmacy very often. I'd advise you to drop the rhetoric of free medication, because it's really humiliating, don't use it. I myself witnessed, Minister. I've even helped a man a few times. Like people my age begged your master at the pharmacy to find something replacement, some substitutes, because they couldn't afford prescribed medication. It's not some kind of specialty drug, it's just a regular drug, for example. Micardis for hypertension, etc., I don't want to count them here. Minister, this is a few hundred zlotys every 10 days. And I want to thank you... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: But the question is, Mr. Senator.]] My question is this... I understand, Minister, that after today's meeting in the Senate and after this discussion, which is still waiting for you, you will report to the Prime Minister at the first meeting of the government that this is a serious problem that needs to be dealt with. We're not gonna forget where all the money is leaking out of the state's money, but we have to help these people in the fall of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u33	Thank you very much. Minister... [[Voice from the room: But that was a statement...]] Senator, I'd really like to ask for some peace. That wasn't a question for the senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'd like to base my numbers on the numbers, and these are the numbers prepared by a group of senators who made this draft law, which, by the way, come largely from the National Health Fund. Senator, I understand you're based on certain impressions, I'm based on numbers. The numbers are clear. The payments of patients in 2015 to medicines in the 75+ group amounted to PLN 860 million, in 2020 PLN 31 million. This shows the scale of how these subsidies have significantly decreased. As I say, Mr. Senator, I refer to Annex 3 of the bill that is currently being processed by a group of senators, not to internal analyses of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u35	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u36	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I am very pleased that all the Senate legislative initiatives are speeding up the government's work on similar solutions. I'm going to name volunteer guards here, wind power stations, and I'm going to put it in a nutshell. Or the Energy Cooperatives Act, recently discussed. One of the questions I wanted to ask was already asked by Mrs. Kochan, so I'm gonna let them go, but... 800 million zlotys is theoretically a big amount. But have the health care costs been calculated for the treatment of pensioners who do not take drugs because they do not have the means to buy them? And then we can figure out what amounts we're really talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u37	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u38	Mr. Senator, obviously, since we're talking today about a government project that's in the process of analysis... Such analyses were carried out in 2015 or 2016, i.e. when the original law was implemented, for the 75+ group, and such analyses to that law were indeed. Today I am not able to present such analyses as would result for the group of 70.75, how many medicines are not bought by these people, and there are written recipes, how big are problems that can be turned around in some way... Although, as I have seen here in the impact assessment, such studies have been carried out by the states, so, let's call it, the input for our further consideration may constitute. But I'm sure as long as we get to the government project, because I'm assuming that maybe Parliament will accept the project that's being procedated today... But if he doesn't accept and we get to the government project, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u39	Thank you very much. That was the last question... [[One more thing...]] Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u40	I refer to this dilemma, which Senator Tyszkiewicz put here, which means whether the 13th pension is better or whether the financing of medicines is better. I realize that the answers to such questions are always difficult, but it seems to me that the situation is different. Thirteenth pension is about 10 billion zlotys a year, more or less out. One thousand and 200 zlotys per pensioner. Well, it would be enough for the so-called. The 13th pension was for one pensioner and one thousand 100 zloty, and for this 100 zloty we have 800 million. The demand for medicines is also very diverse among pensioners, there are pensioners who need a lot of them and spend a lot of money, and there are those who spend much less. Therefore, the 13th pension for all for some does not absolutely meet their needs in this regard. And a certain reduction in this amount and the transfer of this amount to drugs would probably be a reasonable solution and would not cause any problems. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u41	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u42	Mr. Marshal, I'm very pleased to hear that question. I think it makes a lot of sense. Minister Miłkowski asked at the meeting of the joint committees what is the source of funding for this project. I think it would be an expression of the responsibility of the group of senators who made this draft law to indicate the source of funding, to find the means to do so. If a group of senators submitted this project not as it is today, i.e. without indicating the source of funding, only indicating that the 13th pension would be limited by 20%, then this discussion could be a discussion not about promises but about facts. Mr. Marshal, I call for this, I encourage you: make such an amendment as a group of senators who prepared this bill. Then we will actually see how our pensioners will accept it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u43	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u44	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for these 75+ programmes... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Senator. But could you please talk a little quieter or outside the room? Thank you very much. There you go.]] I would like to thank you very much for these 75+ programs, because they are indeed And I'm saying this from the perspective of my region where I'm in contact with seniors. It's very positive. Today, of course, you can promise anything. I generally have three questions, because memory is short. I would like to ask what expenditure on health care before 2015, for 8 years of PO-PSL government. How much more spending on health care, or on seniors? Today we are dealing with a proposal from senators, among others. The Civic Platform. How would the health of seniors be affected by work until the age of sixty-seven? After all, before 2015, the only proposal to help seniors was to work until the age of sixty-seven, i.e. to increase the retirement age. Are there any analyses in this regard? How would that affect the health of seniors? And according to the Minister's knowledge, before 2015 were there any medicines initiatives for 75+ or even 70+ people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u45	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u46	Thank you. Mr. Senator, these expenditures have obviously increased, and very much so. Probably several times, on the occasion of budget laws, we talked about the fact that in 2015 expenditure on health care was about 80 billion. Now, without taking into account covid expenditure, I try not to take this into account, I take it as something unexpected, which should not be taken into account in these expenditures for 2021 exceed significantly 121 billion, i.e. about 50% Bigger. According to the law adopted by the Council of Ministers, health expenditure will soon amount to around 135 billion, if I remember correctly, which is another 14 billion more than this year. These are really important differences, these are differences that allow us to integrate further areas, to carry out subsequent systemic changes. Today I have already talked about removing limits on access to specialists or other changes. As for the seniors' work, I'm sorry, but I'm not familiar with this study. Honestly, I don't know if the health department has ever developed such a study. I can try to find him. What was the third question? I'm sorry. [[Were there any initiatives in this area before 2015?]] Oh, yeah. I don't recall such initiatives. This legislative initiative from 2015 or 2016 seems to have been the first of such major changes which were subject to parliamentary work. [[May I ask, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u47	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u48	With regard to the first question, i.e. the question of expenditure on health care for 8 years of PO-PSL governments, I would like to ask for a written reply. As for working until the age of sixty-seven, if there were any analyses on this subject, I would also ask the Minister very much to give such an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u50	Minister, we were supposed to avoid populism, but you can see that this is very difficult. So I have a question: are expenditures on health care a consequence of health contributions? That's my first question. Isn't growing expenditure the result of Poles paying more? Isn't the government just a distributor of that money? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I ask for a simple answer: are the expenditures on health care a consequence of health contributions? And then there's the request. There may be a written reply. Could you present to me an increase in healthcare expenditure in 2015 compared to 2005 and 2007? It could be in writing. If there has been an increase in spending on health care I'm going to use this terminology. In 2015 compared to 2006? I'll be grateful for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u51	Thank you very much. So it's in writing, Mr. Senator? [[Yeah, it could be in writing.]] Please... Do you want a minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u52	I'd be happy to answer that first part of the question. Clearly, health expenditure is a derivative of the contribution, in a substantial part, but not only. Because it is enough to analyze recent years and the contribution of the state budget... For almost every four years, the state budget has not only increased significantly, and this share of total expenditure has increased, but has also added significant subjective grants to the National Health Fund. Before COVID the last grant was at the level of PLN 2.7 billion. Well, not to mention the COVID, where the entire burden of covid expenditure was either from the covid fund or from the state budget and no funds from the National Health Fund were allocated to the fight against COVID. All this effort... I will present this analysis from 2005.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u54	I'm just gonna ask. I would also ask for an answer to the question, as long as the debt of the state has increased in relation to... [[This isn't the bill.]] Well, it's money, as I understand it, also from credits. And since you're in debt...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u55	That's a question for the finance minister, I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u56	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asked me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Senator Swed has proposed a certain level of discussion, so I would like to adapt to it. Minister, could you answer in writing, if in years... How long have you guys been in charge? How much has hospital debt increased since 2016 or 2015 today? That's first of all. And you can answer the second question right away, or maybe in writing: if... [[It's beyond any level...]] Senator, I'm not criticizing... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I am watching over this.]] And second question. How would she get better... What impact would the 2 billion zlotys that went on TV have on improving the quality of life of 70+ people? That's the level of questions. Therefore, I ask you to answer in writing because the questions are certainly very difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u58	Thank you very much. Minister, do you have something to say? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: As in writing, it is in writing.]] In writing, okay. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Perhaps, or even surely, we are listened to by interested persons, seniors. Could you describe what you were modeling on right now? Maybe it's an author's program, and maybe the same rules are already in some other country. When it comes to this extended drug program within the Polish Deal, which means free medicines 70+? There is also mention that in some categories this may also apply to seniors over the age of sixty. Could you describe the categories? Maybe it's clear by now. I'd ask you to zoom in on this program.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u61	Well, I've signaled that very briefly before. First of all, we will want to analyze these groups of 60+ people with chronic diseases, such as, in fact, this share of drug spending, I would say, in the home budget is important because they are medicines that are systematically taken. Today I am not going to answer specifically whether it concerns people with diabetes or cardiological conditions or certain oncology aids, because this also involves a system of refunds, the availability of the medicines in question and the amount of aid for them. All of this, however, requires much broader analysis. I think if we make a bill, he'll be equipped with this kind of analysis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u62	Still, if you don't mind... Have you modeled on one of the systems that already exists in another European country, or will it be a completely authored program?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u63	Of course. Let's go back to the original law, the law on the program, Leki 75+. There, we have indeed looked at what other European countries offer. Besides, here's the analysis that a group of senators prepared, very thorough. I think that some of these solutions are worth copying or actually thinking about. I'm sure we'll be modeling on some solutions. However, in each of these countries there is a slightly different reimbursement system, there is a slightly different payment system, there are certain limits being implemented. Here was the speech today, the senator was talking about the British, French system, I think... There's even another drug refund system: there's a senior who buys these drugs, buys them at the pharmacy, and only then gets his money back. Such system solutions, which may also seal this system to some extent, will be subject to our analysis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u64	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Aleksandr Swede and Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the part where I presented the draft law, for natural reasons I presented its assumptions, as well as what was happening at the committee meeting. Now is the time to be able to say a little bit more about why this programme is so important and to answer the questions that have also arisen during this discussion. Why is there even an initiative to amend the provisions of this law? Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland we have 38 million 400 000 citizens This is the data of the Central Statistical Office at the end of last year. In this group we have 2 million 700 000 people aged 75 years and over, and between seventy and seventy-five years of age there are 1 million 900 thousand people. And this is the group of citizens that we are discussing in practice today. Are we really going to help them... But not in the way the Minister mentioned. Because you said the government project That's what I took from your statement. It can come as soon as possible at the end of this year. Why do we have to wait so many months? Ladies and gentlemen, to say that as soon as possible... there is no deadline in this reply. In practice, it's like this. And that's what we have to tell ourselves. The dramatic truth is that in Poland many seniors and seniors aged 75 will simply not live. Today we are not discussing when they will receive this help, but whether they will receive it at all. Well, unfortunately, the average age in Poland, especially for men, is less than 75 years old. Statistical Polish male pensioner will not see the benefits of the act This legislative initiative of the Senate will give this statistical Polish senior a chance to benefit from this support. And this is the choice that will be made today, i.e. Tomorrow at the vote in this courtroom. Will we adopt solutions that at least a large proportion of these seniors will be able to benefit from this support? Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland this age limit will move, because society is of course getting older, but in this age group we have a very interesting trend. What does the forecast of the population of the Central Statistical Office say? That the per capita population will decline and will reach 35 million 700 000 by 2040, the proportion of older people aged at least 75 years in the overall population will rise to 11% in 2030, 2040 to 13.3% in 2040, and the share of the group aged between 70 and 75 years... This group is characterised by a different dynamic of change: the population in this age group will increase by 2028, but then, in 2030, it will decrease and reach around 6%. , and in 2040, 5%. Thus, contrary to appearances, spending on this age group will not increase. The Minister also said that it would be good to identify the sources of funding for this project. I agree with what you said. This is money from the state budget and we can either point to these sources of funding from the state budget, or And I promise I'll help you out here. From the budget of the Ministry of Health. If we are to point out the sources of funding from the state budget, then I am not going to refer to examples that may lead to discussion, some better or worse targeted expenditure, but I am going to show you expenditure which absolutely should not be. The Supreme Chamber of Control assessed: 4 billion PLN on 2 towers in Ostrołęka. Not 800 million, not 200 million, like this show that's running... 4 billion PLN for the investment we started, knowing that it would be inefficient. And now you're spending money to tear down what you've built. You want to indicate the sources of funding in the Ministry of Health budget? There you go. Ladies and gentlemen, from the budget of the Ministry of Health recently We're talking about last year, 100 million PLN was spent on spectrum respirators from an arms dealer. A large part of them have not been sent to Poland and you are unable to recover money for the time being, and the ones that have arrived are without certificates and you cannot use them because they pose a threat to the life and health of those who would benefit from them. Useless masks from a ski instructor, a friend of the Minister of Health, Minister Szumowski. 5 million zlotys per mask, which are not suitable for anything, have no certificates and have to be thrown away. Buy tests at excessive prices from a company related to PiS. The Ministry paid PLN 47 million for 365 thousand tests for the presence of Coronavirus from a Poznań company with political connotations. One test cost 128 PLN. The same tests that came from Turkey could be bought for 34 PLN per piece. Ladies and gentlemen, the purchase of a ski instructor's wife, a friend of the Minister of Health. On sale, the Ministry's base had lost more money because this equipment went directly to the warehouses, and then... Let's drop the veil of silence on what happened to them later. 200 million PLN for grants to the brother of the Minister of Health, who, in a clear conflict of interest, adopted the position of Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Science despite family ties with companies that received and then continued to seek grants from the subordinate Ministry of Science of the National Centre for Research and Development. It's about 200 million zlotys. And then, when Minister Szumowski became Deputy Minister of Science, he formally transferred his shares to this company. Shall I continue, Minister? I will be happy to continue to assist you in pointing out where you can find money in the budget of the Ministry of Health if you see difficulties in this regard. We're really backup. Of course, you can say that there are other expenses needed. Because they are and you will have our support in this area. But you also have to be able to sprinkle your head with ash and say, "I'm sorry, we wasted hundreds of millions of zlotys, including money from the Ministry of Health budget. It's never gonna happen again. This money could be used to protect the health of Polish seniors. Ladies and gentlemen, in this age group, i.e. in the age group 70 and 75... This is an age group that is looking at this discussion in a special way today. And this age group is hoping not to hear the word in this room that there is a bill being prepared and that she has a chance someday to appear in the future. This age group knows that today in this Chamber we are working on a bill which we will decide today or tomorrow whether it will be adopted and whether the Polish senior aged 70 will be able to benefit from this assistance, or will unfortunately have to wait another month, without knowing the details of the government bill which is supposed to be prepared. But between that and the fact that the project is prepared from start to finish... I would like to thank the Minister for his words on soundly prepared OSR analyses, with additional in-depth analyses on how it works in other countries. Take advantage of this support. I will tell you more: Minister, you can rewrite this project in the form it is in, especially after the praises you directed at it, and report it as a government project. We do not compete for the palm of priority when it comes to who has prepared it. We all strive to ensure that Polish seniors can benefit from real support in buying medicines that save their lives and health, and it is not known when, but already, because the project is ready and enough to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's draft law on amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws further: the proposed law aims to extend the circle of persons entitled to free supply of medicines, foodstuffs for special nutritional purposes and medical devices on recipients who have completed 70 years of age, but they are valid for less than seventy-five years of age, at which age this refund would have been. This is, as Senator Kwiatkowski said, one million 900 thousand citizens. In total, there are 10 million elderly people in Poland, i.e. retirement age. This is a huge group. Ladies and gentlemen, I do mostly babysitting, so you're probably surprised that I'm here defending people after 70 years of age. However, I will say that with children who are fighting for their lives, not only in Cape Hope, but in various clinics where parents with children are always welcomed at the moment, there are very often seniors sitting, people aged 70+ and will sit if they are helped. This bill is priceless because it will enter into force 14 days after the vote, because they will get this help immediately. And I've seen people crying who can't afford to follow their prescription. The effect is so... Because it's financial, too, Minister... You've been telling me all along that it seems like it's all coming together. And he's not holding up. Because every pensioner, an elderly person, if he gives up on financial reasons for his treatment, will sooner or later end up in hospitals, which have 15 billion debts, and this debt is growing and will grow even more. And very often these people are behind these departments. And of course, their lives are the most important. It is the autumn of life, which should be weathery, anyway it is said that it is a weathery autumn of life. I don't understand why... How can one even say that something is written in a Lad and therefore cannot enter into force in two weeks' time what was previously prepared? Besides, like Senator Kwiatkowski said, you can take... The point is to make it quick. Life is only one thing and it's short. We need seniors. And then we're gonna go downstairs... The idea of Senator PiS was great, to make it 60 years old. They're needed right now. Answer me in writing how many retired doctors and retired nurses after sixty and sixty-five years of age, depending on whether they are women or men, work for the health department in a sense at the moment. They're working, right now carrying mostly the burden of health care, because there are no doctors, and you know it. As you say here, health care in Poland seems to be a land of honey and milk flowing. What's she like? Ladies and gentlemen, 9/11. It's already been said here. At 12.00 a.m. there will be a protest in Warsaw. What are the demands? At once 8% GDP for health. Money is not enough, absolutely not enough. So when you hear about what Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about, what a waste it was that a lot of money was lost... Well, it's a real despair. Another request: raising wages to the level of wages in the OECD and the European Union. The point is to stop external emigration, nothing else. This isn't about some coconuts making money, but if we want to keep doctors in Poland... I'm not gonna tell you how many doctors I'm gonna tell you. I lost it. They are practically running clinics in many European Union countries for ten times as much money as they are served here. And that's what it takes... We want doctors to work, we want nurses, we want physiotherapists? At the moment, all doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and laboratory diaphragm will participate in this protest, because access to diagnostics is insufficient. Another request is a request to increase the number of benefits financed for patients. You said these benefits increased, but not enough. Answer me. And I'm asking you to answer in writing, too. As long as you are currently waiting in queues to an endocrinologist, to an endocrinologist, to a psychiatrist, to a neurologist. I will no longer mention other specialties for which there are giant queues, often many years old. A very important issue is to increase the number of employees according to average standards. I'm not talking about the best ones anymore. In the OECD countries and in the European Union, we are far from them. With us health care is based on individual people who are not able to do their job well because there is no one to replace them, that there is no one to help them and that there are not really enough of them. That's why it needs to be increased. That's why I said it, because of everything you said here, it was just great. You can't support pensioners or support them in a month, two, three... Here you will answer specifically the question of when these government submissions will appear. But, as you can see, they often, unfortunately, are judged negative by us because they are made on the knee and need to be corrected because they are incompatible with the different principles of legislation and with what we should follow in accordance with the constitution, which is the highest law, to obey. And often the Senate must reject these projects precisely because of the mistakes made. Here you have a simple way to make sure that 70+ people who support all economic areas, but also support health care... If all retirees in health care retire, then what's the Ministry of Health? Then he'll do it? I'm very curious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm just paying attention to this rule-of-law issue. During her speech, the senator asked for written answers twice. This isn't the stage. Only at the questioning stage... But I would ask the Minister to agree, however, to give a written answer to the questions asked by the senator. I would ask the Minister to give such an answer. Do you agree with the Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Yes.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very, very much like to support this proposal and to appeal to all the senators who are still in doubt whether we should vote in favour, however, of leaning on this project. This is actually just a part of the challenges that we all have and what we should meet with seniors. This is mostly related to demographics. We know that our society is ageing, and both health policy and social policy, unfortunately, do not keep up with the needs of seniors. The fact that we are calling at the moment and preparing a project to extend funding for medicines for 70+ people is only part of the whole health policy that should be implemented and implemented towards seniors. In order to do so, it should include not only free medications in some diseases, but also, and perhaps above all, increased activity of seniors, access to specialist, rehabilitation... After all, we all want seniors to be active as long as possible. And so that they can benefit from therapy, it is the duty of the state. The fact that our seniors, a large group of them, are a poor group and cannot afford to buy some medicines, is actually a stain for the Polish state. This project is only partially taken care of, because in order to achieve a concrete effect, we should treat chronic diseases, as the Minister said here, comprehensively, systemically, from the moment these chronic diseases appear. And only such therapy that allows a person with chronic illness to treat and gives her the chance to purchase all drugs can be completed with a good result and success. What we are proposing and what is being implemented at the moment is really about sick people, people with multiple diseases. Only some of these medicines are medicines that we offer as free medicines, and the rest of them still have to buy in pharmacies, whether it's refunded or paying directly out of their own pocket. So if this part we're talking about today, the support for seniors is also in yours. Here I refer to the ruling team and to the senators of this team, that is to say, we follow the same line of thinking. But since you have not proposed strategic, holistic solutions, then at least agree to extend this group to 70+ people, because the earlier these people will implement prescriptions, the sooner they can actually use these therapies, the longer we will keep them active. The question was, what was done for seniors before 2015. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of work done, and there's even a special ministry that dealt with senior politics. I don't know if you remember any laws... But one of the strategic goals was the health senior care included in the National Health Programme. The fact that this programme is badly implemented and does not have the effect that it was intended to have, is already the fault of the last 6 years, that the comprehensive senior solutions unfortunately we did not process and were not proposed any new solutions. Therefore, at least because access to this part of the medicines After all, this is only a small part of medicines, as seniors say, these are medicines that cost a couple of zlotys, they are free medicines. So at least this part, this element of all senior support... Please and I appeal to all senators to understand this difficult situation. And in conclusion, I have this reflection. Here was a dispute over whether the 13th pension should be used for medication. Well, I remember that when granting this 13th pension, there was a discussion about what it should really serve the seniors. As far as I can remember, it's all for now. For them to have money for extra expenses that they can't afford every month so they can go, for example. for a few days to get some rest, so they can go to the movies, get a book... And now it turns out that she's still on her meds. Just remember, the prescription for these drugs is made every month, and the thirteenth pension is given once a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u71	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The legislative initiative, which is otherwise valuable, concerns the extension of the drug funding programme, so-called. free medicines for seniors since the age of 70. This programme was one of the first ones that the Law and Justice Government introduced after the 2015 elections, which concerned and continues to apply to seniors since the 70th year of age. Senator Kwiatkowski, Senator rapporteur Krzysztof Kwiatkowski said that the politicians in charge, who here, by the mouth of the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Health, claim that this is a programme that we cannot afford financially at present, should sprinkle their heads with ashes. I think that each of us in Christianity has reason to sprinkle our heads with ashes, and certainly the politicians of the Civic Platform also have such reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the free medicine programme for seniors has turned a little bit into such a debate on senior policy in general, about the situation of seniors. I would like to remind you so briefly of certain things. I know the situation of seniors because I've been working with them, and I've worked with seniors my whole life, and I've been doing things for them, and now I'm running things, and I see how difficult it is. There is still a situation, especially for the sick, especially for the lonely, especially for those who have the lowest pay, which is difficult in general for those who have low pay and live alone, without family support, after the death of their spouse. Their situation is certainly very, very difficult and any support is needed. But I will also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there have been record-breaking benefits under the rule of law and justice, which does not mean that these benefits are sufficient. They're far from enough, but we're catching up on previous years. This valorisation of the lowest salaries, the lowest pensions amounted to more than 40%, amounts to over PLN 300, actually about PLN 400 from 2016 to 2021. I repeat, it's not enough, but we started somewhere. These advantages are much greater than they were in previous years. The 13th appeared, and the 14th pension appeared. Of course, we can discuss whether to serve seniors in their decisions and part of the money from the thirteenth or fourteenth pension to take off and for example. To pay for free medicines for seniors from the age of 70 or 60, but I think seniors are responsible people, adults and know how to manage the money they receive. Some people can afford extra expenses, as said by the President of the Health Committee, and some will spend this money on some additional treatment, rehabilitation or medication. The 13th or 14th pension is a specific amount that goes to the senior and can be spent as he wishes and for what is most necessary for him. So I think seniors know that better than anyone. Let's not do it, they know what the money's worth. I agree that a large part will probably spend this money on medicines, because unfortunately medicines are expensive, and the free medication program also does not cover all medical specifications. Ladies and gentlemen, I started by throwing ash on my head. Senator Swed asked the Minister if there were any programmes for such support, say, for the 75+ group before 2015. The Minister doesn't know any such program. And I, ladies and gentlemen, because there have been allegations of populism here. I think it's justified, but not with the Minister. Let me remind you of a story that has touched me personally in some way, which is why I would like to say so. It's 2014. The President of the Association of War Children asks for a legislative initiative to make seniors over the age of seventy-five, so what, who were born before the war, also during the war, and those who have the lowest salary At that time it was 845 PLN gross per month, they could receive free medications. The situation of these people was very difficult and the conclusion was very justified. And this older gentleman, at that time, probably 78 years old, appealed to the rulers at that time Prime Minister was apparently Mr. Donald Tusk. It is about introducing such a programme. Senator Jan Rulewski took this initiative to the Senate. Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski, a man of such great social sensitivity, in this way justified it that he understood it, because he often talks to seniors. He's a man with a very rich but tragic resume. He understood these problems and introduced such a legislative initiative. I read it because there's a lot of information in the media about it, because the Internet remembers everything. I remember you. I'm reading here right now. Senator Jan Rulewski in the media said that he would certainly be able to convince Prime Minister Donald Tusk to find the means to implement this program, and it needed between 150 and 200 million PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, Okay, I'll do it again. It took between 150 and 200 million PLN to provide free medicines for children of war, i.e. seniors over seventy-five years old, with the lowest salary, i.e. those who received the lowest pension of 845 PLN. So what happened to this program, ladies and gentlemen? Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who now on his return from Brussels claims that the programmes were ready, and at 500+, and what else, then, in 2014, said that there was no money for it that there was no money in the budget for it. The program hasn't been introduced, it's been overthrown. Besides, the senators who aren't here for the first time, I'm sure they remember that. One of the senators. Then the Senator of the Civic Platform, who is not here, boasted later in the media that he blocked this initiative, because firstly, there is no money, and secondly, the next groups are about to bring some claims here, and they will also want some help, and you can't afford it. So much for ashing your head. I think, Ladies and gentlemen, that of course you can bid with the government on various aid proposals for seniors, for families, for entrepreneurs, but you must also be aware that Poles have a good memory and know exactly how it was before. I don't want to develop this topic here, because I don't want to politicize my speech too much, but I would call for some sense and some decency. Dear Sirs, of course this support for seniors is absolutely necessary and I am convinced... And I call on the Minister to lean on this problem and in the near future, as soon as the financial situation of the State allows it, to consider extending this programme to seniors since the age of 70, and in the future, I do not know, in the perspective of a few years, extend it to seniors since the age of sixty. But everything has to be budgeted because we can't blow up the budget with all kinds of claims and ideas. It wasn't for the government of law and justice, the United Right, to fix the public finance system so hard to blow it up from the inside. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u72	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski within 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Today, in this room, it's not all about ashing your head. I really appreciate and respect projects and programs implemented for Polish seniors by various political environments. At this point, I publicly thank the Civic Platform, looking chronologically, for the social activity of older people, in which tens of millions of zlotys were transferred to social organisations working with the elderly. I recall the proposal for a long-term senior policy adopted in December 2013 for 2014 and-2020, including support for the professional activation of older people. And I also remember about additional pension benefits or about the adoption by the current government of the program But today we're discussing something else. Today we are discussing that the average man in Poland lives 74 years. Today we are discussing that a large part of Polish seniors It's what the research shows. It doesn't buy all the drugs they need. Today we are discussing that a Polish patient with his own private money spends much more on drugs than the average in other European countries. And today we should remember in particular the words of the 16th President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, who said, at the end of the day, It's not the number of years in life, it's the amount of life in those years. Together we can make such a decision in this Chamber that Polish seniors will spend these last years in the best health, in dignity, without caring that they cannot buy medicines. Marshal Maria Koc spoke here about the Association of War Children in Poland. That's the name your marshal didn't remember, that's Wołoszyński, president of Wołoszyński. I'm an honorary member of this association. I've been supporting him for years. Today we have a chance to systematically support Polish seniors. Let's do it over political divisions. Please, I appeal and I pursue... Let the Senate unanimously Let's all be in favour. It will adopt the law of 'Leki 70 +'providing free medicines for the Polish senior.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[And a formal conclusion, I'm sorry.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u75	Please set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u76	Thank you very much. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Ewa Matecka, Halin Bieda and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Beat Małecka-Libera and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The discussion is closed. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report to carry out the third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The text of the Act is printed 444, and the committee's report In print No 444 A. Before I formally ask the Senator of the Committee on Budgets and Finance for a report from the committee, I would like to remind you that at 11:55 p.m., a break will be announced until 12:30. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 20 July, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance considered a law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws. The Commission worked on this law as it did on all other laws, i.e. we first heard the justification of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy Minister of Finance, then we heard the opinion of the Legislative Office, we had a discussion and we made a decision. And I would like to say at the beginning that the committee recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. What is this bill about? It is extremely extensive at all, it has a hundred and several dozen pages, together with the justification of these pages was over 700. And the issue is about the reforms to be carried out in the banking system, in the public finance system, in order to avoid the possible problems and crises that took place in 2007 and 2008. Then, as we all remember, a lot of banks had problems, they were threatened with bankruptcy, some fell. In fact, all over the world, there was a need to save these banks with public funds. To avoid this, we are introducing reforms, and we are actually implementing European law into our law, i.e. regulations and directives of the European Parliament, which are designed to protect us from these problems in some way. These reforms are needed to ensure effective protection of financial institutions at risk of liquidity loss or insolvency, which would pose a risk to financial stability. The solutions adopted will have a significant impact on bank capital requirements, risk models, financial structure and reporting systems. It is therefore important to ensure that banks can be restructured efficiently and quickly, with the stability of the whole financial system, and, of course, with minimal use of public funds. In order to achieve this, of course, we are amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, but we are also amending about 20 other laws. Let me mention not all of them here, but, for example, it is a law on the National Court Register, about the National Bank of Poland, a law on banking law, a law on the Bank of National Farms and many, many others. As I said before, the committee recommends the adoption of a law without amendments, but that does not mean that during the work of the act there was no doubt. These doubts were also expressed by the representatives of the Legislative Office. They suggested that amendments be adopted. These were language-legislative amendments, so we considered that without these amendments the law would be able to function effectively. A slightly bigger problem was another issue, which also appears in subsequent laws, namely the addition of an additional article during the work of the Sejm. That's where the article's concerned. 21 Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. In the successive laws that we are going to process today, at least in terms of public finances, this problem also arises. Each time we wonder whether such rules should be accepted or tried to remove them from the law, but in this case we have come to the conclusion that this article can be left behind and that we have not tabled an amendment in this regard. So once again, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u79	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. This is indeed a very extensive law and, I would say, very interfering in many other laws, which so far we have in the Polish legal order. I am particularly concerned with this element, which is to increase the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission. If the senator wanted to bring this closer to the High House, I would be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u80	I will only answer briefly, here we have limited time, and I think the Minister will also speak on this subject. But in general, it is about extending the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission here, and this is also extended in order to be able to control the financial situation of financial institutions more easily. These competences are based, among others. on the assessment of the internal control system, on the examination of the documentation which is drawn up in this respect and which must be kept for a given period. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u82	I have a question: does the passage of this law come directly from the directive that the senator referred to on the basis of... [[But what part are we talking about? I'm asking because I don't quite understand.]] I'm talking about increasing the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u83	Yes, it is related to EU directives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u84	And the second thing: was this law consulted with the Polish Union of Banks and with organizations that bring together bankers? Were there any consultations here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u85	Yes, she was consulted with the Polish Bank Association The Minister will be able to say more about this. and with financial institutions that are listed in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u86	Anybody else... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, in its opinion we read that most of its provisions were adopted in order to implement the legislative package adopted by the European Parliament in April 2019 as the end of a process that followed the crisis in 2008, this old crisis. The question is: are these regulations that are really supposed to end, I would call it an old crisis, or are they supposed to counter a new crisis? How would you rate that? Or are both reasons relevant?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u88	Definitely both reasons are at stake. These are the rules that are primarily designed to reform the financial system and the banking system so that crises such as this in 2007 or 2008 will not happen, but these are also provisions that are designed to protect us from these crises in the future. I believe these are not the last regulations that will regulate this system, because it is a continuous process. The banking system is being monitored all the time, and there are still discussions on how to seal... how to help banks to avoid such problems. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u89	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u90	I have an additional question, but it is closely linked to it. From the point of view of the average mortal who uses banking services or has e.g. deposits in the bank, security is important. For this client, it is important whether he is safe, maybe less about the security of the bank, and more about whether he is safe. There's a limit, a ceiling to which, in the event of a crisis or, for example, a crisis. Bank bankruptcy, the state guarantees deposits. The question is: does this law increase the safety of customers? Is this limit to be shifted in favour of the client? Are we dealing with a client or a bank?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u91	The limit of EUR 100 000 to which deposits are guaranteed remains. But if the whole banking system is more stable, confident, then also deposits, and customers are better secured. That's what I can say, if I understand the question correctly. Thank you. [[Well, maybe I'll ask the Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u92	Mr. Senator, please clarify. Do you want to be more specific or not? [[No.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. As I told you before, I'm adjourning until 12:30. During the break downstairs, on the ground floor will be opened the exhibition entitled: An animal is not a thing. This is an exhibition of children's artwork. I cordially invite you to this exhibition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u93	Attention, communiqué. The joint meeting of the Health Commission, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws, Senate print No 409, will be held today at 12.15 in room No 217. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 55 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u94	I'm extending the recess until 12:40. There's a committee meeting going on. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 31 to 12 minutes 40]] I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Are you Minister Sławomir Gadomski... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Would Minister Piotr Patkowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: No. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Minister, as a result, I invite you to the podium. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm just gonna clarify. I would like to repeat the questions I asked the rapporteur. Firstly, to what extent does the Act increase the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission? And secondly, with what particular banking entities, apart from the Polish Bank Association, was this law consulted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u96	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the first question, I would like to point out that, however, the main entity of the banking sector to which this law applies is not KNF, but the Bank Guarantee Fund. According to EU but also national legislation, the Bank Guarantee Fund is responsible, inter alia. for the compulsory restructuring of banks. To what extent is the BFG additionally incorporated in this Act? First, in terms of strengthening the competence of the BFG to carry out the compulsory restructuring process. Secondly, BFG is given the opportunity to use the so-called. pre-solution moratorium, i.e. the possibility of temporarily suspending the implementation of certain obligations prior to the initiation of compulsory restructuring, but after the supervisory authority has recognised the institution as being bankrupt. This is the moment when we can see that something very dangerous is happening in the sector, when we need to react immediately, so that the entity concerned does not face an uncontrolled bankruptcy, but administrative procedures take so long that the State is not able to react as quickly as necessary. Thirdly, a compulsory restructuring body was given the power to impose restrictions on institutions on the distribution of profits generated, e.g. in the form of dividends where the equity position of the institution does not allow all regulatory requirements to be met. In addition, this is no longer the case for BFG, but I will mention it because this is a very important element of the It also introduces provisions to protect retail investors from the risk of investing in financial institutions' debt securities, which may be subject to debt write-offs or debt conversions if this institution is threatened. That's what they're called. Of which, at the time of the institution's compulsory restructuring, the bank's guarantee fund is not compensated. In other words, these are documents that constitute an absolute basis, securing the functioning of a given bank. They are non-refundable because they simply protect the bank from bankruptcy. As these are also the most at risk in the event of financial market disruptions, we introduce rules that are also in line with what the European Union says, which aim to put retail investors, individually, who may not be aware of the risk of investing in such papers. In other words, reporting papers, as more profitable than others, should be directed to specialised investors. In one point, the law applies to KNF, but this is a secondary regulation, because it does not apply strictly to what we are introducing here. This is also the implementation of EU legislation, so-called. the SEPA Regulation. Namely, in accordance with the SEPA Regulation, we must have an authority that supervises payment market institutions. Here we had a discussion whether such a body would be more UOKiK, BFG or KNF, but as a result of the discussion, also within the bodies of the KSF, we thought it should be KNF. Nevertheless, it is a very fragmented, residual statutory regulation. In fact, the main character of this bill is the Bank Guarantee Fund. As for the second question, with whom the draft law was consulted, I would say that it was consulted with all willing institutions. Of course, she was also consulted with the Polish Bank Association, but she was also consulted with individual banks. I can honestly say that I see no reason to treat the Polish Bank Association as some particular institution with which we have to consult more than with individual banks. Of course, it is an entity with which we consult, as we do with many others. I mean, anyone interested could discuss this project with us, the Polish Bank Association was one of them, but in no case was the Primus inter pares. [[Minister, did the SKOK take part in this consultation?]] Of course. [[I'm asking because you didn't mention it. That's what I wanted to hear. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u98	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two lines. One is the reason for this law, quite extensive. Is there something going on in the banking system that you would like to inform us about here? Is there any direct reason why we should clarify these provisions and give new powers? And second question. Such an average bank client is also partly driven by the fact that the savings held in the bank are safe in that bank. I'm not talking about inflation here, but if something were really going on with the bank, then... And this is what I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. This savings are guaranteed up to $100,000. Haven't you considered strengthening your willingness to save money in banks to increase this guarantee amount?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u100	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u101	When I ask if there's something wrong with the sector, I'll say no. Indeed, the banking sector was one of the main causes of the crisis in 2008 and in the following years, but at this point the rules, not only in the European Union, but also in the United States, are so strict that it is precisely from such events as took place in the world markets 12 years ago that we should be protected. Part of the environment, including the Union of Polish Banks, claims that these regulations are now even over-regulated, but I personally disagree with that opinion, because I believe that the safety of customers and depositaries is the most important and should be placed above the convenience of financial sector institutions. What's with the implementation? This is another regulation from the cycle or from the family of directives and regulations aimed at strengthening and regulating the banking sector, because after each such subsequent regulation the European Commission notes, but this is also done at the request and as a result of observations coming from national authorities, some things that need to be improved and improved. Hence this next process of implementation, improvement of this law. Nevertheless, it is a constant learning from what happened 12 years ago. It must also be said, frankly, that during the covid crisis, the banking sector was one of the most stable sectors in terms of the economy, not only of Poland, but also of the United States or of the European Union. And it can be said that as a result of a real fight for the state of the world economy, these regulations, as well as the whole sector, passed the exam, which also shows the NBP report on the situation of the financial sector in Poland. Of course, this sector, like the vast majority of sectors, has also felt the effects of COVID, but we can certainly say today that it is a safe sector, but this does not change the fact that individual institutions in this sector may require special supervision from BFG or KNF, but it is already the responsibility of those institutions which are absolutely independent from the Ministry of Finance. As for the question of whether these institutions serve banks more or clients... It's a little bit like the bank and the client aren't two opposing entities. At a time when the banking sector is stable, citizens and depositaries are sure and secure to store their funds safely. Therefore, by strengthening a certain supervision of the sector, but also by introducing solutions that eliminate the likelihood of an uncontrolled collapse of the bank, we gain a guarantee that even if it turns out that a bank does not meet the requirements of capitalization, then it does not threaten bankruptcy and the start-up of processes with BFG, but, as it was, for example. On the last day of last year, we are conducting a resolution process, taking over this bank by another bank, with a full and 100% guarantee of the cash collected in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u102	Thank you. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, ask...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u103	What about this $100,000 guaranteed amount or the euro? Are we going to increase this amount, or are we going to have this opportunity, or are we just staying with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u104	At this point, we're not planning to do it, but as I said, this amount of 100 grand only appears at the time of the bank's collapse. And at the time when we are conducting the forced restructuring process and the bank is taken over by another bank, there is no need to mobilise this amount of EUR 100 000, because simply these deposits are taken over by another bank and guaranteed by its capital.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u105	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u106	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you two things. If these rules were in force earlier, would the number of victims in the GetBack case be less? And if these rules were in force now, at a time when we already have an attempt to recover, I apologize for that term, but I am consciously asking this question, because also those who are injured in this matter listen to us, are they now, at the stage of recovering at least some of the financial resources that were involved, if they had been in force earlier, would they be more favourable to the individuals affected by the GetBack case?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u107	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u108	No, Mr. Senator, because this bill doesn't apply to entities like GetBack. GetBack... it's hard to determine, it was definitely not a bank, it was like a quasi-borrowing institution. This project concerns banks. What was the main cause of the problems with GetBack... that wasn't the reason... well, subjective, of course, too, but it was the cause of this, which is the instruments that GetBack offered. And that doesn't apply to this subject. But KNF... And perhaps even in the Committee on Public Finance, it would be worth talking about it longer with representatives of KNF or BFG. Here protection should go towards this control of the state authorities over what collective investment instruments are offered to customers. And as far as I know, KNF and BFG have taken some action in this direction. I'll be honest with you, at this point, I'm not able to answer very specifically, so if you don't mind, I'm gonna answer that question in writing. But I also think that the Committee on Public Finance would be a good place to discuss this. [[Excuse me, I'll ask you again...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u109	There you go. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u110	There was no doubt here either, and I support the initiative in this regard. But there's one thing I've been worried about, getting to know the materials. I'll quote one sentence from our Legislative Bureau's opinion. This opinion concludes with the following wording: "These provisions may raise doubts'. as regards their compliance with Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 119 (1) 1 and 2 of the Constitution, because they were adopted by the Sejm without keeping the three readings required for the Seym legislative procedure. Have you analysed this problem and is it not a concern that these necessary provisions may be assessed at the next stages as being adopted in accordance with the constitutional procedure in force in this regard? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: These regulations...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u111	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u112	These provisions, which Mr Senator mentioned, relate precisely to the rules governing the operation of you and the auditors, and that was also a long discussion yesterday in the finance committee, concerning, I understand, three readings in which the President of the RCL also took part. In our opinion, there is no constitutional risk of three readings here, so we are not afraid of that. Let us also note that the provisions concerning you and the auditors are, however, provisions which are material in connection with the subject-matter of these laws. This, of course, is not a direct implementation, but sometimes, in addition to simple implementation, we have to implement material provisions that allow the application of the guidelines of the European Union's legislative act in question, and the provisions of the Lord concern this. In my opinion, this risk is not present for these two reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u113	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] Since the President of the Bank Guarantee Fund is also with us, I would like to ask you questions to the President. A question for the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund. The question was whether it was possible to increase the guarantee from EUR 100 000, the guarantee for private contributions. Therefore, I would like to ask what the banking condition of the Guarantee Fund is and how much resources required the problems of the SKOKs. How much did you pay to the various SKOKs that had to be co-financed or bankrupted?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the first question, there is no way to increase the guarantee of deposits. Once again, Senator Kwiatkowski asked about GetBack that GetBack was not a supervised entity in any way by the Bank Guarantee Fund, but was supervised by the Financial Supervision Commission, and it was under the bond law, not under banking law. So these regulations, as the Minister said, regardless of whether they entered into force six months earlier or two years earlier, would have made absolutely no difference when it comes to GetBack. So that there is no possibility of raising the guaranteed amount above EUR 100 000, because this is regulated at the level of the European Directive, we are not able to change it and break out, so to speak, from this number of countries of the Union. That's the first question. Second question. Of course, the condition of the sector is good, the banking sector in Poland is well capitalized. What we saw during the COVID epidemic was that credit risk costs initially increased, but now all banks are practically solving increased credit risk write-offs related to COVID. It can certainly be said that the banks have gone through a dry rate during the pandemic period, hopefully it is behind us. There is no doubt that PFR's aid to entrepreneurs was also aid to banks, because if these entrepreneurs were to get hurt, it would also be bad for banks, so undoubtedly the banks were beneficiaries of this state aid. When it comes to SKOK, it's been a long time since there's been no bankruptcy of SKOK. At the moment... The value of the funds paid under the restructuring of the SKOK for the guarantees granted to cover losses We issue such guarantees for all SKOKs that have been taken over by banks in the framework of restructuring processes According to the 14th of July this year it was PLN 664 million, and the value of the funds recovered from bankruptcy proceedings in the area of SKOK-i has now exceeded PLN 1 billion. [[Does this also apply to the payment of these guaranteed deposits in the situation of...]] Yeah, yeah, because... [[So it's about 1 billion 600 million in total?]] Well, you could say that 1 billion 600 million... No, no, because we got 1 billion back. We recover from the mass of bankruptcy, we are the first... Because if a bank fails, a mass of bankruptcy arises, and our claim is first because we have paid funds to depositors. And as the syndicate takes out assets or sells credit portfolios to individual institutions, we're, colloquially speaking, first in line for that money. For today, so I quoted, we recovered over PLN 1 billion. [[Mr. President, are you sure? Because a few years ago, there were other amounts here, much bigger.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I would ask, Mr. President, for written information. Okay?]] Good. I'm sorry, because... [[It's about how much he paid...]] Mr. Marshal, by 30 June this year, we've paid 4 billion 389 million for the SKOKs. [[Yeah.]] With regard to the funds paid to the SkOK depositors, four... [[Millions?]] That's 4 billion 342 million. From this we have now recovered 1 billion 54 million. So right now, the balance is on the downside over... [[Three and a half.]] ...3 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u115	Good. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you in writing to... [[Chairman of the Management Board of the Bank Guarantee Fund Piotr Tomaszewski: Good. Of course, yes.]] ...it was all right. And I could still look at it. [[President of the Management Board of the Bank Guarantee Fund Piotr Tomaszewski: Ustosuncja.]] Senator Klein? No. No further questions. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, and the president of BFG, Mr Piotr Tomaszewski Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed and Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 448 and the report of the Commission In print No 448 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the Law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws. Our report is in print No 448 A. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance met to discuss this law. The Commission has done so at its 2 meetings because the matter of the law is very complex, extensive and also important for public finances. Finally, we adopted our position on 3 August this year, and earlier we met at a meeting on the Law on the amendment of the Public Finance Act and some other laws on 20 July this year. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance asks the High House to adopt 7 amendments which were tabled and voted by a majority of the committee at its meeting on 3 August. As I said, the law on amending the Public Finance Act is very important. It is an important law from the point of view of public finances. Many provisions in this law are very good provisions. And we're glad they're in this bill. These are provisions relating to the stabilisation of the expenditure rule. 30 different funds, smaller and larger, have been added to institutions that are subject to a stabilising expenditure rule. Of course, it is important that the smaller and smaller part of the state budget is outside this stabilizing expenditure rule. Of course, we still have to remember that the stabilizing expenditure rule was deregulated in connection with... Well, that was the justification before, but actually it was the dismantling of the stabilizing expenditure rule that took place before the Coronavirus pandemic, and in the course of this pandemic it was practically suspended in quite important areas. This law provides when we would now be able to return to this stabilizing expenditure rule with public finances. That's also an important record, I think. The Act provides that, in the financial year in which certain criteria cease to be met, the so-called "freedom' shall be automatically activated. a return clause allowing a gradual return to the amount of expenditure resulting from the original formula stabilising the expenditure rule over a period of 2 to 4 years. So this entry gives us some prospect of returning to such a very strong, strong public spending and restoring the principle that you can't spend more than you earn. But in addition to the good ones, we would like to say that there are also many things that raised our serious doubts. This is particularly the case for additional provisions in the Act, which were introduced at the stage of parliamentary work, i.e. Seyms, works in the Seym. At that time, the Public Finance Act was accompanied by provisions which are in no way related to the Act. We in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance always pay attention to this problem, we say that it is simply something bad, that it is a certain dismantle of law, when the laws that are treated as the basic ones, the most important ones, are accompanied in the Seym by rules from completely different areas. This was already mentioned by the Bank Guarantee Fund Act and I am talking about it now, but also to the next law, which will be, i.e. The law on financial instruments has been incorporated into the law on road matters, so simply from Sasa to Lasa. But I'm going back to the law on amending the Public Finance Act. Well, some of the amended laws have been introduced, which are e.g. Proceded in the Sejm, concerning the organisation of the work of the Council of Ministers, and they do not know why they were included in the Act on Public Finance in the course of the work in the Sejm. However, we have decided that such legislation should be removed from this law, because such legislative practice clearly violates constitutional principles and the principles of legislative technique, which clearly state that those provisions which are added in the course of the work in the Seym or the Senate must be directly related to the subject-matter of the law in question, cannot in any way be unrelated to the substance and matter of the bill under investigation. Amendments one, two, three and seven are those amendments that eliminate these rules. Now for the next amendments that we have made here, which is the fifth and sixth. Amendment 5 and 6 seek to specify that the body competent to carry out the planned budgetary expenditure between the parts and sections of the State budget in 2021 and to block the planned expenditure of the budget managers in order to counter COVID-19 shall be the Council of Ministers and the Minister responsible for public finances respectively, and shall ensure that the planned expenditure of the budgetary managers referred to in Article is blocked. Article 139 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2th Public Finance Act may be implemented subject to their consent. And at that point, the committee had a big discussion, important because, as it turns out, these rules change the rules that had already been in force in the Public Finance Act, which clearly stated that expenditure could be blocked in the various parts or sections of the Budget Act... We don't deny it. Only that the records that were introduced here, first of all, transferred these competences to the Prime Minister. So it seems that the Prime Minister simply does not fully trust his finance minister, who was the right person. Moreover, secondly, these changes were made after consulting the Committee on Public Finances of the Sejm. And it seems that these were just fair and clear rules that just every de facto change in the budget... every such change was learned by Parliament through the Public Finance Commission. The Committee on Public Finance did not have power over such proposals by the Minister of Finance, it merely gave an opinion on these actions, and thanks to the fact that, so to speak, this information reached the public. But... We restore records that have been in force so far. Because there is no emergency situation, there is no state of war, so that the Prime Minister, one person, has to make changes in the budget due to some extraordinary situation. However, it seems to me that Parliament's role in establishing the budget should still be leading. And one more element that caused us a lot of surprise, and to which we were definitely opposed, is that the Prime Minister... This law in the version that we received from the Sejm assumes that the blockade of expenditure may also apply to institutions such as the Sejm, the Senate, the Supreme Audit Chamber. This entry according to most of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is very dangerous, because, in fact, one person, by the Prime Minister's decision, you can simply limit the operation of institutions such as I said, parliament, control institutions or many others, which have attached the budget to the state budget. Of course, the budgets of these institutions are proceded during the adoption of the budget and the Sejm whether the Senate can freely change the budgets of these institutions, but then this is the amount that binds the government, and cannot be freely interfered and manipulated in this area. However, we did not go so far as to simply prevent the Prime Minister or the Council of Ministers from changing the related parts... We assume that in special cases there may be a blockage of expenditure, I do not know, in the Senate Office or in the Sejm Office or in the Supreme Auditorium, but we are convinced that it would have to be done with the agreement of the Marshal of the Sejm or the Senate or the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Because if we say that the Prime Minister is responsible for the state, then so are the Marshal of the Sejm, the Senate, the presidents of other institutions, the most important, the most serious. If they see that the situation is serious, then indeed, they can also agree that the budgets of these institutions, which in principle must be independent... Their budgets cannot be manipulated so that we propose such amendments here. Our doubts were also related to various other entries, such as: creating additional expenditure for different purposes. We have paid attention to this before, even the Sejm has not seen it. We paid attention to this in the context of the process of the around-budget law for 2021, where funds for the Reprivatisation Fund were created in the form of bonds, then PLN 3 billion. We asked at the committee meeting, in plenary, for what purpose these funds were intended. Well, the minister didn't really want to answer that question at the time, but one of the directors told us that these are the measures envisaged for the purchase of Power Plant 2 or Power Plant 1, the one that prepares the investment, the construction of the nuclear power plant, from power companies. And it turns out that there are more expenses in this around budget bill. It is intended, but not already 3 billion, but this year and next year 20 billion PLN for these purposes. In this case, the Minister of Finance was also unable to tell us what is planned to buy, what shares, what companies the Treasury would like to buy again and nationalize. Besides, the fact that it's done through the Reprivatization Fund is also at least questionable. So, as I said, there is a lot of doubt about this kind of law. Finally, we accepted 7 amendments. The first amendment is an amendment that concerns Article. 4. This is a law on the organisation of the work of the Council of Ministers, including, for example, the Government Legislative Center. The Public Finance Act talks about internal organisational matters related to the functioning of the Government Legislative Centre. We also delete the article. 8, i.e. creation of a special fund, the possibility of mobilising a fund to modernise the Armed Forces. There was a lot of doubt here. We asked the Minister why this article was introduced. 8, which was also introduced in the Seym Amendment. This is what raised our greatest doubts, because none of us is opposed to the modernisation of the Armed Forces, even the opposite, but it seems that the provisions on the fund should result from some government thought, should be a proposal from the government, not a single Member who, in the form of an amendment, introduces such an important, essential provision at a committee meeting. There's an art. Nine, I wouldn't have said a word about that. Because our serious doubts were also raised by the article. Nine, it's a public benefit law. These records are too far-reaching in our view, they allow financing of various types of projects without the Public Procurement Act. It seems to be unacceptable. And all this is done under the pretext of the COVID pandemic. Today it seems, at least that's what everyone's telling us, that we're slowly getting out of this pandemic. Of course, we are afraid, we are afraid of what might happen, but today, under the pretext that COVID is still present, more and more stringent regulations are being introduced. There are provisions that allow ministers, prime minister, government to introduce rules that have so far been unacceptable, but which have meant clarity, transparency and legibility of public finances. That would be my comments on the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u117	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Patkowski like to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you at this stage.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the Minister in connection with this bill. Are there any such questions? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Kazimierz Klein and Wadim Tyszkiewicz... [[Voice from the room: No. Paweł Arndt.]] I'm sorry. The applications were submitted jointly by Kazimierz Klein and Paweł Arndt. [[Wadim Tyszkiewicz too?]] No. It was a mistake. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Mr. Marshal, I think it would be better to have a committee meeting, given that we have only just received these amendments.]] Thank you very much. At the committee meeting, you will respond. Good. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I should like to inform you that, after considering the next point, which is the 14th point, I will order a half-hour recess for the committee meeting. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and managing alternative investment funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 470 and the report of the Commission In print No 470 A. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, is already on the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the same meeting, i.e. on 3 August, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the Investment Funds Act and the management of alternative investment funds and certain other laws. I'll divide my speech into two parts. The first part will address the issue of funds and proposed changes in the management of funds and changes which arise primarily from directives of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council. The second part will concern some other laws, i.e. road-related and toll-related legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management Act implements Directive 2019/1160 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I can say that the changes concern the details of the issues concerning the management of shares and assets of investment funds. As regards the issues which have been enshrined in the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, first of all, as regards what is written in the draft law, information obligations, including advertising, are being modified, i.e. a very important element concerning transparency, transparency and readability relating to the advertising of issues relating to trading in shares or all kinds of shares in investment funds. Secondly, the obligations of foreign funds in respect of the disposal of participation titles issued in the territory of the Republic of Poland are extended and conditions for cessation are laid down. So we're still talking about readability, transparency and everything that's related to financial market turnover. Third, the conditions for the cessation of the disposal by investment funds of open units within the territory of a Member State shall be laid down. In addition, conditions shall be laid down for the cessation of the introduction of EU alternative investment funds into the territory of the Republic of Poland. And here are the conditions for the cessation of the introduction, i.e. the disposal, the offering of certificates, the placing of alternative investment companies or EU investment funds on the market in the territory of a Member State. The elements of the law on the implementation of the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council did not raise controversy, as this is the sealing of the entire trading system on the financial market and was the full compatibility of the committees in this respect. The second part of this law is Article. 2, 3 and 4. This issue has already been mentioned by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, including road cases in this law. Namely these 3 articles concern: first, the Road Act On payment of charges; secondly, the Act on toll motorways and the National Road Fund on payment of tolls on motorways using the collection system; thirdly, the Code of Conduct on Offences It's an art. Four of these laws. In short, when it comes to road matters, there are issues related to tolls, namely the possibility of exemption from charges in situations of rescue of life, health and other emergency situations when these roads should be used in a free way. We are talking here, above all, about services, but also about road transport in urgent matters. At the same time, an important solution has been introduced in the code of conduct for infringement cases, which is beneficial for businesses. Namely, in the event of failure of the payment system, the possibility of further action by the person transporting goods which are not subject to supervision by the financial services shall be reported and the whole process shall be settled later. So far, the bill has made it clear: whoever does not come forward is punished. Thus, from the point of view of functioning, from the point of view of entrepreneurs, this is a positive element. However, the legislator has raised reservations about constitutionality. On the basis of this opinion, I have reported the deletion of these road charges and the code of offences. However, after clarification by the Minister and following the suggestions made by the President of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I withdrew these amendments. It was not a matter of substance, because the rules in terms of the functioning of entrepreneurs are very beneficial, but of a certain secular tradition which was born in respect of the violation of the Constitution, the violation of the judgments of the Court, namely the inclusion in the Act at any time of everything that we have at hand. Well, you have to ask yourself, what does the Investment Fund Act have to do with tolls or toll sections or a code of offenses? The Minister replied to the question of the president: we will try not to do more of this. But I've been here too long to believe it, because we've been talking about it for six years, and things like that are done anyway. Here, the Investment Funds Act, the implementation of the guidelines contained in the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council are accompanied by three things which have not passed by three readings and in general thematically have nothing to do with this law. As a result of the vote and after my withdrawal on account of the social aspect, and I hope that this is the last time... The result of the vote was that 7 senators voted in favour of the bill without amendments, 1 senator abstained. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, Mr Marshal, I request that this proposed law be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u119	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I have a question. Mr. Senator, you haven't finished your report... You said 8:1... [[Yeah, eight votes for, one senator holding off.]] I understand that the committee's proposal is to adopt a law without amendment. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u120	Yes. I told you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u121	Oh, thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Patkowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: No. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. [[No questions.]] I have a question for the Minister. Why were the laws annexed to the Act which do not concern the Investment Funds Act and the management of alternative investment funds, and which concern the charging of road tolls? It seems that the code of administrative procedure is also... The code of administrative procedure is also attached, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Yeah, I heard that right. That's a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u122	If the marshal agrees, I will answer that question, but we also have Minister Rzeczkowska with us, who is directly responsible for the subject of these regulations. So if the marshal agrees, maybe I'll fill in later.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u123	Of course. It's up to you. There you go, Minister. Mrs. Rzeczkowska, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u124	Yeah, sorry I'm late. [[There you go.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes that have been annexed to the Financial Instruments Act are indeed related to the area of toll collection, the electronic tolling and these are due to the demands of the industry, which are reported on an ongoing basis in connection with the implementation of the new system. Since 24 June, a new e-TOLL system has been in operation. The transitional period during which the old system will continue to operate will run until 30 September. It is too short a time for entrepreneurs and other public road users to switch to new rules and join the new system. We are trying to respond to the demands made in this process, which is why such changes have been proposed. They meet these expectations. This is about amending the Public Road Act, the Motorways Act and the National Road Fund and amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, these 3 legal acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u125	Thank you, Minister. That answer doesn't satisfy me. We have the following points: the law on amending the law on groups of agricultural producers, the law on amending the law on agricultural chambers, etc. Well, it could be successful if you consider your justification to include these amendments in these laws. Well, we reject it, we try to reject it here and end this practice, but the situation in the Sejm is different. No further questions? There's a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here is a record of payment in some cases only 70% of the fee rate, 85% temporary. What does that tell you? Is this our benefit, or does it result from some external conditioning?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u127	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u128	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator, for that question. It comes from our own solutions. It has no international rule that recommends such a solution. The point is to grant such a reduction at an early stage to join the system by 30 September. We want to encourage carriers and create good conditions for them to join the new system.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u129	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[All the time to see the Minister...]] Minister, I thought it would be just one question, so please... [[No, no, sit down.]] No, no, but I'll have... [[There's only gonna be one.]] If there's one thing, stay put. [[Minister, I have a simple question. I have a simple question. We're not moving you here.]] Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u130	During holidays there are often such situations that on the gates I'm not talking about the electronic system, it's just very long traffic jams, where you can stand up to an hour. I'm not talking about emergencies, I'm just talking about traffic on the gates. And now the very idea of the highway is just getting in the head, because what you gain from driving is lost in these traffic jams. Don't you think that we should formulate rules that, at a certain length of cork or depending on the waiting time in this cork, would require these gates to be opened? I don't know, maybe there's a recipe somewhere, but I didn't find it. It would just make the movement liquefy. That's the first line. Besides, this would make the traffic less difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u132	Thank you so much for that question. Those are the rules that work. There is a regulation based on the Public Roads Act, which defines and defines traffic hazards, including inter alia. a situation of intense movement. Under this procedure, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways recommends the Head of the National Roads and Motorways to open the gates and waive the toll, including in a situation of increased traffic, which is also a threat to road traffic. And then these gates are opened not permanently, but until the cork is discharged. In the last weeks of this year, during these holiday weeks, just like last year and the previous year, last year was specific because the covid procedure was used. And it's still in use. [[Excuse me, Minister, but is this a matter of judgment or...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u133	There was supposed to be one question, Mr. Senator. [[His task continues, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go. A bag of questions you're solving. As you're performing, you know...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u134	It's definitely the last one. It's the last one. Whether it is a question of assessment, whether it is a question of objective criteria concerning the length of the cork, waiting time, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u135	This is a partly assessed issue and partly based on a regulation that defines these risk criteria. They're set up certain, say, measuring points. If this traffic jam comes to them, then it is recommended to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u136	All right. Minister, I don't mean to pick on you, but isn't this a stretch? You're putting yourself at risk in a situation where there's just traffic jams, normal traffic jams. I understand that there are no court cases, no complaints from the owners of these toll roads. Well, that's good. There's no court case in connection with the vagueness of that definition?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u137	There isn't, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u138	Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. And I would like the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Just a little bit. I would first like to address you with a certain appeal. The Minister said at the committee meeting... When asked by the president, you answered that you would try not to do such things. It's not enough that it's just breaking the rules of Polish law... I am talking about adding to the amendment of the Investment Funds Act those other important issues that we have no doubt about. Minister, it's so easy. What prevented it from being made a separate parliamentary initiative and adopted in a normal way? We would have finished the investment funds, and in a moment we would have considered this as well. And we wouldn't discuss it, we wouldn't needlessly shred the tongue. Well, we've been talking about this for a few years now: don't join the law where we talk about airplanes, agricultural matters. Well, unless that's the case... [[...plowing planes.]] ...flying with airplanes. Therefore, I ask you very warmly. You're sitting in the ministry, or you're sitting in government meetings... Well, don't do it, it's easy. Minister, this isn't about trying. Don't try, just do it. It's so simple, then everything will be in line with the constitution. Why are you guys stuck in these fences all the time? Boy, the thing is important, but you're joining it... And the situation you put us in. We, senators, who believe that the case is good, clear that it should be decided, but this is a violation of the constitutional procedure and regulations? How are we supposed to vote? You're breaking not only our spines, you're breaking our minds. Therefore, I am making this proposal later, and then I withdraw it because... well, the arguments of the Minister, the arguments of the President are things that are a little derogatory to us. I think you should have some self-criticism and even, I'm sorry for the expression, a little shame. I mean, to include a road issue in a law like this, it's something... That would be more appropriate, as you said the marshal, to these next agricultural laws, etc. Well, agricultural roads have more in common than investment funds, because farmers walk along the way, tractors go... Well, there's something in common. And now a word to the Minister of Finance. Minister, before that, when the case of the previous laws was discussed, you asked Senator Kwiatkowski if the project was bringing anything to my attention, but I am talking about the other two about protection from something that happened... It's about GetBack. I am the chairman of the team to investigate the issue of GetBack and I am glad, Minister, that all kinds of things I say now. about this law on investment funds that seal the system, which causes that so-called. An unprofessional player in the financial market is increasingly based in the country. During the group's meetings we consider the report of the NIK on the GetBack affair, we meet with representatives of all the institutions that were mentioned there, we also invite the Ministry of Finance. Well, it was kind of hard to find time, but we get it. Minister, in Amber Gold's case, you probably weren't in the government yet. Law and Justice politicians were talking about a cardboard state. When you read the NIK report, when you listen to the reports and discuss with the heads of individual individuals, it feels like it's a country made of sand. And my request is this, Minister: regulations, all good actions must be supported, sometimes changed, proposed new things, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I have the senator... [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Senator. I would like to say that the rules of the law make such a conclusion, but still everything depends on people, on their thinking, on their actions, on their perspective. The GetBack scandals would not have been if all the representatives of the institutions mentioned in this document had acted legally and even in the interests of non-professional investors in the financial market. That's why my appeal and request, Minister. It's not enough to make laws. It's about surveillance, analysis, monitoring, drawing conclusions, correcting all of this. Above all, it is about defending non-professionals investing in a difficult financial market. And with this appeal, Mr. Marshal, I would like to conclude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u140	Thank you very much. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed and Janusz Błucher have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Announcement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u141	High Senate! The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-eighth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Public Finance Act and certain other laws, Senate printing No. 448, will take place today, 5 August 2021 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u142	And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Budgets... [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't.]] No conclusions? [[Voice from the room: They were to the previous point...]] Good. Thank you for your attention. I'm out of my mind. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm ordering a recess until 2:15 p.m. So now it's half an hour off. During this break, the committee will meet. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 45 to 14 minutes 15]] I'm extending the recess to 14.20. The Commission hasn't finished its work yet. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 15 to 14 minutes 20]] We're continuing our deliberations. And we begin to consider item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on groups of agricultural producers and their associations and amending other laws and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 452, and the report of the Commission In print No 452 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the penultimate meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, we discussed a draft amendment to the Act on groups of agricultural producers and their associations. The proposal also amends 5 other laws. This is a government submission which was received by the Sejm on 30 June and was adopted on 7 July. 439 Members voted in favour, 2 abstentions. At the meeting of our committee, Minister Richard Bartosik discussed this project. He said that these changes that are being made are a response to the demand of the interested parties themselves, members of the producer groups, and these are changes, you can say, the technical ones that are intended to facilitate the functioning of the groups and strengthen them. Of course, the Minister supported this bill. The Legislative Office did not raise any objections or proposals for amendments. Only Senator Pupa, who applied for the bill without amendment, spoke in the discussion. There was a vote and nine votes, unanimously, we adopted this proposal. With this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development also goes to our House, i.e. with a proposal to adopt these amendments without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of legislative work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration, Deputy Minister Simon Giżyński? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: If you will allow me.]] If that's the case, I'm gonna have to ask you to come down here for the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I welcome the report by the rapporteur on the committee's proceedings. I also want to present to you some very beneficial changes in the subject we are dealing with here. These changes facilitate the situation of producers, business groups and producer unions by simplifying many procedures, and by adding certain elements of greater freedom and freedom to manage own property and business projects. The most important solutions I want to quote here for the presentation of the whole picture. The mandatory level of production volumes and product groups to be sold by the members of the agricultural producer group to the group has been reduced from at least 80 to 70%. This is, of course, a tribute to such individual management and disposal of own production, own property for the purposes of its own and different concepts, which the independent manufacturer wants to implement. A 90-day deadline was introduced for the decision by the Director of the Regional Branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture to recognise the agricultural producer group and to approve the business plan and to register the group. General provisions currently in force the deadline is too short and thus insufficient. I think this is one of the most important records that the Senate High House has also blessed. The possibility of submitting documents in electronic form has been introduced. It also introduced an obligation to submit together with an application for recognition of a group of agricultural producers or producer organisations also an electronic version of the business plan. The extension of this is also important. The deadline for a group of agricultural producers to submit an application for approval of changes to the business plan. This request should be made at no later date. than 60 days before the end of the group's business year. The associations of agricultural producer groups are excluded from the obligation to submit the annual accounts to the President of the ARiMR. So the unions also joined individual producers, members of groups who had not previously had such an obligation. The maximum percentage of votes and shares which may be held by shareholders or shareholders of producer organisations has been introduced. This threshold shall not exceed 20%. This is a bow towards... well, it's about some fair, accepted, more equal parameters of the group's functioning, which is important in the functioning of such economic proposals... economic unions. I apologize kindly for the slip. The possibility of amending the business plan for producer organisations has also been introduced. An application for a revision of the plan should be submitted to the competent director of the ARiMR Regional Branch at no later date. than 60 days before the end of the year of activity of the producer organisation concerned. I think it's also... And one of the last or last decisions I want to make here. It concerns a period of termination of membership of an organisation which may not be less than 6 months and shall be specified in the statutes, contract or other instrument of incorporation of an agricultural producer organisation. These are provisions which are commonly referred to as liberalisation changes, which give greater freedom to manage, to take independent, competitive decisions on the market. The motive was obvious here. As you know perfectly well, it is all to encourage Polish farmers to create such organizations, and producers' associations, in the wake of those Western agricultures which have already passed this way. And this went well because they organized profitable production, competitive production on an international scale, on a successful scale of permanent, export enterprises just at the level... through cooperative movement, through cooperatives, through producer groups. If you wish to do so, of course I also serve as an answer to questions. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u146	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Alexander Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask... Because here among many beneficial changes, as far as producers of these producer groups are concerned, there are among others. descent from 80% to 70% But each group has to prepare a business plan for the group. I'd like to ask you how it's been so far. If the producer concerned loses its production in any way in the course of belonging to the group Well, you know, we have natural disasters, different events. This will automatically be removed from the group? And what if it affects the business plan that the group is preparing?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u148	You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: May I be of service?]] How much more comfortable it is for the Minister. We use such a method that if the Minister is more comfortable from there and the senators, as I understand it, do not mind, then... It's all about getting us all to talk better, isn't it? So I guess... you're welcome. Yes, sir. You have to push the button and then you can talk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u149	This will be a clear and obvious answer, in line with the intentions of the senator who asked this question. Of course, in the event of natural disasters, such disasters and afflictions, there is no way to exclude such a person, an institution from the producer group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. Please inform me that there are no further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Viktor Durlak, Mieczysław Golba, Mariusz Gromko and Danuta Jazłowiecka made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Chambers and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 453, and the report of the committee In print No 453 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Law amending the Act on Agricultural Chambers and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 8 July 2021. The marshal sent her to us on July 9th. It was examined by the Commission on 20 July this year. and asks for the bill to be adopted without amendment. This law is a law amending earlier laws. The deadline for support has expired and this period is therefore extended until 2026 to a new perspective. And in general, it can be said that from such changes that are here... These are changes in detail, which should be enshrined in the Council of Ministers Regulation on the rules of operation, grant award and accounting. And it's written in a revised bill. During the discussions at the committee meeting there were proposals and such comments were made that one of the organisations which was previously included in the Act, the National Cooperative Council, this time is not included and demands entry. There's still an application to be made. This was also reported in the Sejm before, but the Sejm refused to accept these amendments and by a majority of 418 votes the law was adopted in the version which I am submitting to you. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u152	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators wish to ask such a question, lasting no more than a minute,? Senator Antonia the Man, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u153	Mr President, is it true that at the committee meeting all clubs In view of the strong voice of agricultural cooperatives, they agreed to support this change that was in force in the previous term, in the financial perspective when this grant... The National Cooperative Council was not a member of Cogec, but nevertheless received grants when she attended Cogec's meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u154	Thank you for a question that lasts no longer than a minute. Please respond to the Minister... [[That's a question for me.]] Excuse me, senator rapporteur. Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u155	As for the organization that was included in the previous bill... It was a dead record. Organizations have to give their consent, their acceptance... There was no consent of European organisations to accept this. The bill does not guarantee admission to the organisation. It's the organizations that decide who's going to be on. This record was dead, they couldn't use any funds, grants from it. First you have to be a member of an international organisation. We're talking about Copa and Cogec; Cogec are co-workers. And then you can get funding. And the record in the bill is a record that, you can say, only allows... There are organisations, trade unions of individual farmers... We also added Geop's relationship, which is employers. They were also before, but it was determined that there should be no doubt that Geopa could also be included... Because it's an employer's union. And as far as consent is concerned, since chambers and other organizations did not agree to a party... Today, the co-operatives are represented by a representative of dairy co-operatives from the Polish Milk Chamber, which is today even Vice President of Cogec, Mrs Maliszewska. Therefore, it is not that there are no representatives of the co-operatives. She represents them, and she's even Vice President Cogec. That's all I can say. And as for the record... Well, if the motion is made, we're gonna have to lean over it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. You're still a senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u157	Mr President, at the committee's meeting, it was stated that the National Council of Cooperatives did not belong to Cogec, but, nevertheless, at the invitation of Cogec, she participated on several occasions... And the costs of this participation were reimbursed from this fund by the National Agricultural Chamber. So that here, I see, there are inaccuracies. It seems to me that there was also such a wording in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, that it participated and that there was such funding in the previous term. It wasn't an empty record... At least that's what the social group representing the agricultural cooperative community said at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u158	I have to say yes. Of course, they came to Brussels to get their consent, but they did not get their consent. An organization that comes and is privileged in the sense that someone is reporting it. For example, the Agricultural Chamber sends its delegation and the notified organisation goes there on its behalf. She may be reimbursed for travel or delegation expenses for the trip she took part in. But it wasn't for their organization that the money could have been sent, it was through one of the organizations that's in Copa-Cogeca... Many co-operatives drive, they're sent by either the Chamber or the industry federation or other organizations. They send representatives of the co-operatives and it is they within the funds they have granted, and these funds are divided into many organizations... An organization like this can send co-operatives and not necessarily... For the time being, the Minister for Agriculture has not been able to repay the funds directly if this organisation does not exist in the documents unless it is stated that they are members of this organisation. But other organizations can take it on themselves and send... And that's what we do. Sometimes we send specialists, professionals needed in a given industry, because we want them to go and take the floor. Because you have to send professionals to the European Commission, because there are documents in the European Commission about whether it's negotiations, whether it's some new regulations or other documents or some new legal solutions. And the need for professionals to go there, and such professionals to go there, the co-workers to go there. As part of the departure of an organisation that wishes to do so, it is possible to return it. You can also get a refund from the European Commission. If the invitation is directly from the European Commission, the European Commission will refund the ticket, part of the delegation and accommodation. But then there is an invitation from the European Commission to a particular organisation or an intermediate organisation representing the organisations in question. There are many such organisations in front of the groups that are set up in front of the European Commission. It's not just Copa-Cogeca. These are NGOs, there are many, many organisations that are reported from different countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. The third question that lasts no more than a minute will be asked by Senator Man. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u160	Yes. Mr President, this does not agree with the provisions of the law. The Act states that the costs associated with the participation of Polish agricultural organisations in transnational agricultural organisations will be borne by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers and will be financed by the state budget. Therefore, in any case, whether you are a member or not, and you participate, the costs are always borne by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, not by the organisation, even belonging to Copa-Cogec. Here, you know, you're missing the truth. Answer me another question now. Is it true that if the number of these entities is more limited, those listed in this law will be able to benefit from a larger fund? Because if so, it'll be in the interests of the trade unions, the ones that belong to Copa-Cogec. Only dairy cooperatives will receive reimbursement of these costs. The National Cooperative Council is an organization which is very often substantive in some matters and will be invited there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u161	Of course, the national council is very substantive, because it has housing cooperatives, a community and any other... [[But so is the farm.]] ...cooperatives and partly agricultural, mainly circles and agricultural organisations that were previously members of Copa-Cogeca. I would like to stress once again: the situation is that this is the Minister... This bill gives us the opportunity to sign an agreement between the farmhouse... At the moment, the delegation in the regulation is written in some way, before it was more general. And there's a record that all those organizations that belong are applying to the farmhouse... the farmhouse is authorized to write down an agreement between the organizations. Organisations shall settle with the Chamber, but the grant shall be granted to the Chamber and the Chamber shall be accounted for by a grant under which it has previously signed a contract with 7, 9 or 10 organisations, depending on how many of them are in the contract. And only then does the House settle with the Minister of Agriculture, and before we settle, we have deadlines for settling with the Chamber. And this is an intermediate road... [[Yes.]] It's not like if someone hasn't signed an agreement with the farmhouse, they might have a refund, because he can only get a settlement on the basis of that agreement if he has a deal with the farm house. This organization that's not included in Copa-Cogeca can't have a settlement. It may have a settlement on the basis that another delegation, another organisation, sends from its fund with which it has a signed contract. That's what it looks like. [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] It needs good specialists, professionals who will go to Brussels and will be able to justify our Polish interests of farmers or even countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u162	Thank you very much. [[One more brief question, already to the rapporteur as chairman of the committee...]] I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u163	We have tabled an amendment on this issue. And tell me: will the guests, the representatives of agricultural cooperatives, be invited to the committee meeting tomorrow?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u164	But that's the question. Not to me, it's a question for the marshal who's running the proceedings. I only have the opportunity to invite guests to a committee meeting, that's all... [[It's for the committee meeting where she'll be considered...]] But if there's a committee meeting, an additional one, if the amendment is tabled... [[It's already complex...]] Well, I don't know if it is yet, but you say it is. 'Cause I know it's okay, that's what I've been told. Then, after your marshal's order to hold a committee meeting, I invite the guests who want to take part in it. And we always do. There is therefore no obstacle to the fact that representatives of organisations who apply cannot be invited. [[Good. I'm the one who expects them to be invited.]] According to this... We'll notify you as soon as we know the deadline, then we'll notify you as usual... [[Thank you very much.]] These are the procedures and we try to follow them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u165	You're still Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome. Question for the Senator of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, according to the information we have in the impact assessment, the project has been consulted extensively, and many stakeholders have been asked. In addition to this one opinion, were there any other opinions presented at the committee meeting? And what were they, positive or negative in relation to this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u167	In general, it can be said that we did not have any opinion in writing, except for the opinion of one organisation which had previously been in Copa-Cogeca, i.e. agricultural circles, the National Association of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations, which expressed its dissatisfaction, expressed opposition. Everyone has the right to express their position, it has been expressed by them as dissatisfied... As usual, there are people who think that certain things should be handled differently. This organization is currently excluded from Copa-Cogeca... Well, they also have the right to express their opinion as dissatisfied and expressed it at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u169	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Senator rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski has made a very clear presentation of the objectives and needs of the amendment of the law. I am merely from the government's side of this brief series of our statements and assurances to confirm what the ghost and letter of what the senator has said reveals and is completely true in this matter, and I think it is very well known to the High House of the Senate. First of all, it is obvious that it is necessary to extend the grant period of participation of Polish organizations in foreign bodies. Copa-Cogeca are most often mentioned here. But there is also a need for a method of granting subsidies to agricultural organisations other than the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. This is also done through a precisely defined system, which is shown in the amendment of the law by the elements of the agreement concluded by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers with agricultural organisations, as well as the elements of the agreement concluded by the competent minister, the Minister of Agriculture, the National Council of Agricultural Chambers and the source of funding, which, of course, is the grant granted by the Minister of Agriculture. Previously secured in the Ministry's budget for, as the senator here also explained very precisely, the National Council of the Agricultural Chamber. A Council which allocates this grant to eligible organisations. All that was given by Senator Chróścikowski in relation to those detailed questions he received, I completely confirm. And what I have concluded here in short words is also a confirmation from the system side of what was just being discussed in this discussion. Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u170	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Antoni the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u171	Thank you very much. Minister, how did you do it, that you convinced... Because today's argument by the President, the rapporteur... [[Senator.]] ...the rapporteur's senator was exactly the same as you presented at the committee meeting. And today he confirmed the exact same argument you made at the committee meeting. It seemed to me that this was due to the Minister's misunderstanding that it was not about membership, it was about the fact that these actual trips were financed, compensated. But then the Senator rapporteur used exactly the same argument as us and stood on the other side. How did you convince Senator Chróścikowski of your argument? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u172	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u173	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! The important thing is that I have now confirmed what Senator Chróścikowski said today. [[I figured it out, too. But how did you do it?]] I'm happy to agree with senator man. [[I understand that this...]] [[Minister, do you also agree with what it looked like at the committee meeting? That means that then Mr Chróścikowski had a completely different position, such as us.]] Mr. Senator, I was very clear. And please don't expect me to comment on my own words anymore. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u174	Thank you. I understand that this fascinating exchange of questions has certainly been completed, keeping the audience tense, if we have them, our deliberations. There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. There's no... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] I'm sorry, it is. Senator Chróścikowski wants to speak This time in discussion mode. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u175	I wasn't going to speak, but I want to answer my colleague if I changed my mind or if I'm convinced. Let me put it this way: I said I didn't see the obstacles to making the amendment that the applicant wants. As President, I said we would accept the amendments that will be made. But you asked me to write it. I said no, because Senator Bober will take care of it, he will. And if he folds, he will. So much of my job... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. It was just a voice in the discussion. As I understand it, this is not an incentive to continue this course of ours... [[He should have said it louder.]] ...the debate. I would like to inform you that no one has joined the debate except the senator. The Senators Alexander Szwed, Wojciech Necessary and Ryszard Bober made their comments in the minutes, while Senators Ryszard Bober, Antoni Men and Benjamin Godyla submitted legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: We don't have...]] [[At the committee meeting.]] [[Voice in the room: In the committee.]] At the committee meeting, I understand, it will happen, i.e. at the committee meeting, you will be able to respond to these amendments. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to present a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Court of State. The text of the Act is contained in print No 468 and the report of the Commission In print No 468 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee. I would remind you that the bill was introduced by the Senate, and that Senator Robert Mamytkow was also an authorised representative of the Senate during the parliamentary work on this project. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Let me just remind you that we have already voted on this bill. It was adopted unanimously. At its thirty-fifth meeting on 23 July, the law was adopted almost unanimously, 444 Members were in favour, 1 Member was against. After yesterday's meeting, following the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions held on 3 August, the committee requests the adoption of the bill as proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no questions for the senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The text of the Act is contained in print No 467 and the report of the Commission In print No 467 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Joanna Sekuła, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to be the rapporteur of the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. This law was proceded in the Senate at a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The bill was adopted unanimously by the senators. Similarly, the vote took place in the Sejm, where the draft law gained broad support. When we talk about the genesis of this project, we need to talk about the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which questioned the lack of equality of rights, the violation of the article. 45 constitutions, i.e. the right to court. As a result of the addition of one article, the rights of the parties to the courts in ordinary proceedings and electronic proceedings have been aligned. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, I would like to ask you to adopt a draft law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski was authorized to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is the government representative... There is not yet a representative of the government, but I will ask the senators if you would like to ask the representative of the government. If so, we'll wait. If there are no questions, it does not make sense for us to prolong the sitting and unnecessarily trouble the Minister, who is not to blame for being late here. It's kind of the fault of our acceleration. There is no impairment of the House's dignity or any social desecration. It wasn't so much the Minister who was late as we accelerated the proceedings. But, as I can see, there are no questions. I therefore open the discussion. Nobody signed up. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the Senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would therefore ask you to inform the Minister of Justice that there is no longer any need for him to come to us. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. The text of the Act is contained in print No 465 and the report of the Commission In print No 465 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u181	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The Committee on Science and Sports discussed the proposed law... Excuse me, the higher education and science committee has been discussing the proposed law, and the outcome of these discussions is the following. The first of the objectives of the contested law is to enable universities with the status of a professional university and fulfilling the conditions laid down in the law to use the terms of the applied sciences in their name. The second objective is to conduct studies preparing for the profession of teacher without having to have an agreement on cooperation in conducting those studies with a university with achievements in scientific activities in the discipline to which the course of those studies is assigned. In the explanatory memorandum, we find that these solutions will provide professional universities with greater recognition and reputation in local communities, and will provide an additional incentive to further develop their organisational capacity and improve the quality of their education. In accordance with the proposed provisions, the words "academy of applied sciences' are reserved for the name of a professional university which fulfils the following conditions: firstly, it operates for at least 10 years; secondly, the number of students studying in a university is at least 250, of which at least 100 students are educated in stationary studies; thirdly, at least 50% of academic teachers are employed in that university as a basic place of work; fourthly, they have a first and second degree studies or a uniform master's degree in at least 5 fields; fifthly, they teach at least 1 course of studies preparing for the profession of doctor, dentist, pharmacist, nurse, midwife, laboratory diagnostics, physiotherapists, paramedics, veterinarian, veterinarian, architect, teacher or engineering master; sixthly, no course of studies conducted by the university has been evaluated negatively as a result of the Polish Accreditation Commission's assessment of the quality of education. The verification of the fulfilment by the professional, public or non-public university of the above conditions will be carried out on the basis of data contained in the Integrated Information System on Higher Education and Science POL-on. If the university using the terms "Academy of Sciences' in its name no longer meets the required conditions, the university will still be able to use that name. It is worth adding that changing the name of the university to a name containing the words "academy of applied sciences" will not be mandatory and will not involve changing the status of the school. Data from the POL-on system show that there are currently 240 professional universities in the country, including 34 public and 206 non-public. The second major change is the proposed possibility of abandoning so-called agreements. The draft law provides for the addition of provisions enabling professional universities fulfilling the conditions laid down in the Act, identical to the conditions for applied sciences academy, to conduct preparatory studies for the pursuit of the profession of teacher without having to have an agreement with a qualified university. To date, the applicant's professional university has been obliged to enter into an agreement on cooperation in the course of its studies with a university with academic achievements in the discipline to which the course of those studies is assigned. A university which, on 1 October 2018, conducted studies in preparation for the profession of teacher and did not have the authority to confer a doctoral degree in the discipline to which the course of those studies was assigned may continue those studies if it has concluded the agreement or has more students in stationary studies than in non-permanent studies. At the same time, such a university may recruit for such studies for the last time per academic year 2022/2023. According to the justification given by the draft law, there is a limited number of universities that can educate future teachers. In the procedated law, the projector also proposes to exclude the right to receive a doctoral scholarship by doctoral students receiving a salary of at least 150% the amount of their doctoral scholarship in accordance with Article. 209 (4) of the Employment Act, in connection with the implementation by the doctoral school operator of the research project for the employment of a PhD student. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport requests that this law be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Chudowska. Yes, Senator Dorota Czudowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the bill was rejected by the votes of the senators of the committee unanimously, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u184	It was probably 4:7. [[Thank you.]] No, 8:3. 8:3 is the previous... [[Voice from the room: Ah, good, good.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u185	I understand that this important fact has been established. Another question. Please, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you this question, rapporteur: would you agree with this statement that there is a possibility that the school will be nobilitated here by giving it a specific name? And from what the committee presents, there are issues so fluid, so inaccurate and actually so depreciative that I 100% I can agree with the opinion of the committee which rejects this law. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 250 vocational universities, as we have called them so far, so it would seem to give you 15 in each voivodeship. As a result, there will be one in almost every major city, or maybe two vocational schools, which will not only educate teachers, perhaps without the pedagogical direction that should be, but will also train, as you said, dentists, dental technicians, doctors, someone else there. What kind of science would that be? What's it gonna look like? I'm terrified of the bill. And I appeal to all senators not to take a bullshit like this. Thank you... [[Senator, I'm sorry, with great respect, but... well, it's time to ask questions, not make appeals.]] Yes. Would you agree with the statement I made at the beginning?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u187	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u188	I'm going to say this: college is coming, that's a fact. There are universities at different levels, and sometimes we don't even realize what this classification looks like. First there are universities, i.e. universities and academies, then, according to what we will be considering in a moment, there would be adjective academies, and then those universities that would not comply with the conditions of being a dorm, i.e. they would remain professional universities. In fact, the situation has developed a lot with regard to the creation of new universities. It happens even as yesterday I found that there is a university where there are probably 15 students in daily studies and 230 or 240 students in absentia. But since such a legal framework was created, when you apply for the establishment of a university one of the few types I was talking about here... Well, it's possible that's how it develops.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u189	Thank you very much. The senators' list is increasing. I ask Senator Ewa Matecka to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, in view of what has been said here, that this is not a mandatory solution that can apply to all universities, please tell me what is the main... [[Cell phone signal]] Tell me, therefore, what is the main reason for the amendment of the law. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u191	Yeah, she was... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. Someone's very stubborn. Yeah, she was talking about it. Anyway, it's been said for a long time. I am associated with a group of state professional universities, I created one of them, I was her rector for 15 years, the university has developed very well, but for a long time due to the slightly negative wording of the term "higher vocational schools" reminiscent of the former name "medium vocational schools," we have asked in various ways to change this name to "Academia" or to another name. We didn't make it. Well, I think it's a good thing that right now it's been thought about introducing a second kind of academy as a professional university, which is adjective universities. And that's something the environment is definitely looking forward to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Do you still...]] There you go, Senator Matecka has an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u193	Are there any studies that could confirm that renaming will result in better educational outcomes at universities? Is it really that important to the university?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u194	This is important, but rather as an attraction to the university, because we are still dealing with the relatively low recognition of this type of university among young people. Youth migrations at national level show that people sometimes go further for their name rather than using this local university, which offers them good education, good science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u195	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, could you tell us what the opponents of this bill were like? What was said at the committee meeting? Why shouldn't this bill work?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u197	How do I put this... [[Voice from the room: Briefly.]] There weren't many votes against, no one was overly denying the contents of the bill, although the vote came later as I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u198	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u199	Mr. Senator, I would like to refer to the question of the senator, Prof. Rotnicka, who presented here this picture of many universities, not necessarily strong and high-level education, distributed in different places in our country. Will this bill change this state of affairs? Is she going to make things better or worse for the situation that the senator was talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u200	Thank you. [[Answer?]] Right, Mr. Senator. I think, among other things. That's why you're standing here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u201	I think that the impact of this law on the location of these schools and the recognition of what is important in the educational market would be positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u203	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry to have to speak again, but I have a question. How many private schools are there in this whole set of private schools? That's the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u204	From that number I gave, you have to subtract 36 and that's going to be the result.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u205	So there are over 200 private universities. So I have a second question. What's their territorial distribution? Where are they located? Are such data known?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u206	Well, I'm afraid not. The territorial distribution, as far as I'm concerned, is more or less that their very high concentration occurs on Podkarpacie, then there are probably the surroundings of the Zielona Góra. But there are some voivodships where there's one where there's two... I'm talking about state-of-the-art vocational schools. As for private schools, I can't say anything. Well, sometimes it's like, you drive around and you see... [[And the headquarters is...]] ...that there's a university here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u207	And one last question. I want to make sure I understand correctly. The Act states that for such a school or academy to be established, the specified conditions must be met. [[Yes.]] And then there's a remark that even if some condition isn't fulfilled, the name may still remain as it was. Read the academy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u208	Yeah, he can stay, but only until the university is inspected by the accreditation committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u209	One last question: is it clear when such a check will be made?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u210	There is a list of such checks and these checks according to this list are taking place. You can in advance It seems to me that even a year and a half or a year, find out when the direction will be controlled at the university.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u211	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u212	First a brief correction and note and then a question. Senator Czerwiński asked the question what were the reasons for the motion to reject this bill. I made this request, justified it in 4 points. I would add that the senator also had a critical remark and tabled an amendment which he withdrew, while referring to this low limit of 100 daily students on fixed wells, recognizing it as too low. So there's a lot of arguments. I have this reflection: in general, it would be good, i.e. I think it would be good if, in practice, the rapporteur was the one who represents the majority, because then it would be easier for all of us to know the arguments... [[But, Senator, it doesn't change the fact that now is the time to ask questions about this, not the other Senator rapporteur.]] Yes. And right now, I want to put a question to confirm this state of affairs that I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u213	I don't think I have anything to say. [[Is that what happened?]] [[But the question was to confirm or deny whether or not you did.]] Yes, of course it was.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u214	Thank you very much, senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Halin Poor. I'm so sorry. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Professor! According to our office, I didn't take part in the committee's work. That the name change will not be mandatory, i.e. the university does not need to change it. [[Yes, of course.]] Does the senator know what percentage of college wants a change like this and what doesn't?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u216	I think the situation here is more or less like that, and I'm judging as much as I've got some insight into it. That there are universities in this group, especially the state-owned professional institutions that have developed a brand... I can give you an example of my college. She used to push very hard for change and do treatments so that the name that appears today was given to her, but when we became recognizable on the basis of our functioning, our activities... Once it's associated with the name, I don't think the university will be interested in changing it. I know sentence 3 or 4, let's say that 3 rectors of professional universities who said that their brand already works for them, including the name. At this point in time, it would hardly be beneficial for them to change their name.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u217	Thank you very much. Another question, senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u218	I understand the Professor's statement. And I think so, too, that it's probably that a good university defends itself and it doesn't have to be a change of name from college to school.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u219	Well, if we look at the list of known universities, we'll see that we have universities there with the name "college," for example. London College. There's this university, it's one of the highest-ranking. It's more of a historical thing to do. Now that we've started with that name, we've developed a brand, we've created some value, so let's stay with it. And that's why there's a point here that it's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. You're still Senator Alexander Swed. Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, in the impact assessment, we have information about those who have been consulted, but we do not have any information at all about what these opinions are. Were they presented at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u222	No, they weren't presented. [[Corrigendum. I've been giving these opinions... to this guy.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I realized it was an expression of my own.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u223	Okay, thank you very much. I understand that it's... Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? You're welcome, Minister Bernacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal... [[But we are very much asking perhaps from the speaker, Minister, just as he did, setting the standard in this debate, Senator rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would just like to speak in a few points, because here the senator, the rapporteur of the committee, presented in a very comprehensive way not only the proceedings of the committee, but also the content of the law and consequently the position of the majority of committees. I would like to point out a few very important points here. First of all, it is worth to add here that the real initiator of this amendment was the state higher vocational schools, which, let me remind you, were established in the former voivodship cities. And here we're actually touching the question that you've asked Senator Czerwinski. The government of the United Right, Law and Justice is the advocate of the concept of sustainable development, i.e. even development not only in economic, economic terms, but also in the matter of the development of a scientific, educational or educational basis. So that was a very important and important aspect. Therefore, when it comes to the position of these or other bodies representing higher education institutions, it is very clear as if two spheres, two spaces. On the one hand, there are representatives of state higher vocational schools and aspiring to the rank of academy and meeting the requirements that I mentioned here, representatives of non-public schools, mainly located in this area of local Poland, and on the other hand there is a gremia and their position, which in a sense... No, not in a way. Well, as a science worker, I'm involved with a college that has a brand, and this is the brand that came out in the days of Kazimierz the Great. This brand has been consistently built for centuries to come. It was built not only by the authority of power, in this case by individual rulers, kings of Poland, because the name of the university appeared at the time of the Austrian takeover, but also by the flow of funds. What you asked Senator Czerwiński about is a very important and important issue. We are in favour of this development being sustainable development, but also affecting matters related to the functioning of higher education institutions. For these reasons, therefore, I would like to ask the High House, despite this opinion of the committee, to give a positive opinion and to adopt a resolution on the Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm going to suggest that you may actually go to your place now, because there will be questions and no doubt it will be more convenient to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: No, as already... Mr. Marshal...]] It's as if you're more comfortable. I wouldn't want you to feel like we want you in any way... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: No, absolutely not...]] ...to stalk or... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: No. In the Senate? Mr. Marshal...]] ...somehow to make your stay in our House uncomfortable. Well... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: No. You know, I sit here in the second row every day, Mr. Marshal, so...]] I know that. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, and then Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u226	I have two questions. First question. As a matter of fact, in the 19th and 20th, we have two laws. The first concerns higher education and the concept of academy appears in it, and the second concerns the establishment of the Zamość Academy. How do these two laws feel about each other? In one case, I will remind you, there is an initiative to raise the university in Zamość to a higher rank, and in the other In order to compete with other vocational schools. And the second question, I think it's very important to me because I'm sensitive. for the opinion of higher education institutions. What is the opinion prepared by Przemysław Wiszewski, rector of the University of Wrocław, for Krasp? What are the most important parts of the opinion formulated by artistic universities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u227	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u228	It's go time. Of course, I will not go back to history here, but actually from a purely formal point of view, and you did not mention this Senator, it is that the law on the Zamość Academy is a parliamentary law. Indeed, I represent applicants when it comes to applied science academy. So I wouldn't want to tie these two issues together here. Regarding the example of Zamość Now that we're going to discuss it, we're going to do it a little bit in advance. However, this is related to a certain tradition of this place, the Zamość Academy, the Academy established by chancellor Jan Sariusz Zamoyski. Notabene will soon be celebrating the anniversary of his duties, not only as the founder Zamość Academy, but also the rector of the University of Bologna. He's also a very important figure, because he wrote a wonderful treaty, and I recommend it to all senators. O the Senate of Rome. The Books of Two. Perhaps it was the Zamość missionaries who directed their desire to return to these wonderful traditions of the Academy. Because I don't think this was about the competition of the 2nd category on the one hand of the Platonic Academy, on the other hand, and Aristotle's high school. I don't think there's a dispute in this matter. Similarly, it is not sensible to combine these two legal acts, i.e. the Act on the Zamość Academy and the Act on the Academies of applied sciences. As far as opinions are concerned, opinions on this matter were negative.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u229	Thank you very much. Senator Eve Matecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u230	Thank you very much. However, it is clear from our discussion that there are schools that want to build their brand and their prestige by changing their name. Within the framework of all the conditions that we have set out in the draft law, there is a condition which says that no course of studies conducted by universities has been assessed negatively. Under these conditions, there is no way that requirements are made in a slightly different way, that schools must have high educational performance or high performance in their field. That's too bad. Because it's not enough, in my opinion, to have positive opinions. So please tell us what the limits were dictated with regard to the number of students, including the number of students in the field of stationary studies. What made you decide that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u232	As regards the first point, it is indeed the case that the Polish Accreditation Board can assess and evaluate the functioning of a given course at a given university. This is not related to the performance side, because I am afraid that if it were expected from the university itself Friday, this school would first of all have to close at once, but... Sorry, you might have doubts if these grades were very, very high. I don't think that's the point. The Polish Accreditation Commission examines the functioning of a given direction on a given university for all those requirements which are set out on the one hand in the Act and on the other hand in the requirements for a given, in fact defined by the university, direction. The relationship between what is in this commitment and what is being realized is working out. So in this respect, I would rather not talk about the results. And as for that question about... sorry, because... [[I asked you what was dictated by setting limits...]] Oh, of course, yes. Thank you, and I'm sorry. It was a combination of two... Actually, it's a zipper, because we have... This law applies to public and non-public schools to the same extent. Therefore, in order not to charge that we exclude non-public schools in any way, we set this zipper so that the best
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u233	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do you have any knowledge of how many public schools do not meet these conditions, that is, how many non-public schools do not meet these conditions? So where's the dividing line? If we divide the group into two...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u235	It's just that... I can tell you about public schools, state vocational schools: they all meet this requirement. And as far as the public is concerned, this is where I'm gonna ask the Director. I'll get it, if you'll allow the marshal to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u236	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u237	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, 46 non-public universities meet the conditions provided for in the amendment of the Act... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: In terms of numbers.]] Yeah, about the numbers. These are the data from when the draft was submitted for agreement, consultation, from the start of legislative work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u238	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... I don't see Senator Alicia Chybicka. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Already here in the questions, both to the rapporteur and to the Minister, have been clarified. But I will try to add a few more points in the discussion. The fact that, at first reading in the Sejm, an amendment was proposed to change the practical academy proposed by the applicants to the name of the science Academy used shows that the change of name is not entirely thought out to say, artificial, and probably not necessarily necessary in the context of the criteria proposed to be met by the university in order to be able to use it. If this were the case, it would be enough to change the name of the university in order to increase the interest of students in its choice, many universities would be interested in doing so. Temporary interest is as much as possible, as is indicated by fancy names of specialties and courses at many universities, not only private but also public. In the longer term, however, this does not work if, with changes of this type, there are no real changes in the quality of education, in curricula or in the innovative approach to the learning process. Probably for this reason in the opinion of many scientific communities Here we were so sensitive to these opinions, there were a lot of doubts about the draft law. Critical comments were made, among others. Polish Accreditation Commission, Polish Teachers' Union, Rectors' Conference of Universities and Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The allegations mainly concerned the fact that the name "Academia" should be given to universities with the highest quality of education in the fields of practical profiles which meet the requirements set out in the Act, while the quantitative approach presented in this law, according to the opinion-makers, depreciates the title "Academia." Critical opinions indicated that vocational universities could achieve appropriate academic status through scientific development and that the proposed changes would not motivate this. Personally, I will now move on to the personal thread. I know many arguments for and against such changes, changes in the names of state vocational schools that arose, as was mentioned here, after the liquidation of the former voivodships in most cities, which were the seat of the voivodships. I know the role and role of these universities in the development of local communities and in meeting the needs of local markets for well-prepared professionals. I also know the ambitions of these circles, because I came out of them and worked for them too, acting first as the rector of the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz and then the president of the city for a period of 12 years. I was one of those guys who wanted to have an academy in Kalisz. But to have an academy, it's not enough to want. The development of universities, the development of human resources and the creation of a good climate for students, employees, the construction of a modern teaching base must be worked out. From 1 September 2020 The State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz is called the Kalisz Academy. It employs 282 academic teachers, including 43 professors, 55 habilitated doctors and doctors. He conducts studies in 27 directions and 30 specialties. He has the right to doctorate in two fields of study and is likely to proceed to the parameterization process next year to meet the statutory academic criteria. This is the path that was mentioned here. The path proposed in this Act to be able to use the name "Academia" is too simple. In my opinion, it will not lead to goals. The required statutory criteria are easy to meet by most universities, and as has been said here, probably already by all vocational universities created immediately after 1999 and in the following years. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this academy that has 250 students to meet these criteria, including only 100 in daily college? What is this college where only 50% of the teaching staff have a basic job? Dear Senator, you have already said a little about the fact that some of these universities, which are really professional, state-owned vocational schools, which are already established in their city, will probably not want to use this name, because once again they will all have the same names and that will not change anything. We're gonna turn a state high school into a applied science academy? And there will also be non-public universities in the number of at least 43, as it was said here, and we will have a problem somehow, but in fact it will not contribute to anything. I personally, because of where I've been and where I am, I won't object. I will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This is the case with this law, that in principle I am not very different with my previous speaker in the way of thinking about this law and evaluating this law, just as it was with the senators during the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. That's the name of this committee for a dozen years. Not everyone can remember her, so I'm reminding you. Anyway, we're not very different, but we're drawing different conclusions and a little bit of a pity. As for the name, whether the practical academy, or the applied academy, well, this is a problem for discussion, has the right and the first, and the second name, so to speak, not necessarily to delight. Except they didn't report a better one. Professor, Marshal Seweryński made some proposals at the committee meeting, but they were not necessarily adapted to this particular situation, although this is also an open subject. I have no doubt that this is a very necessary legislative act. State higher education schools were established 23 years ago. They have a great deal of work, you can say that even a great deal of work. But I agree with those people who think that the bar set in this act is set a little too low. I think that's the problem. I remember that, on several occasions in this House, when I had the opportunity to present to you, whether as rapporteur or as a participant in the discussion, matters relating to science and higher education, with the budget of these parts of the budget, we have always tried to show some pro-quality mechanisms. How effective they were, it's hard to say today, but they certainly made this level, whether it was a little higher or lower... It's always been like this. Such mechanisms are present today, and the Minister can confirm that. After all, we have a programme of research universities, extremely pro-quality, it concerns the best, right, because there among academic universities, the university is chosen 10 out of 20 and this is the top of Polish science. Here, this pro-Quality mechanism would be very useful too. I have to say that when I look at a map of public higher education schools, because I know them better, I think that if the terms proposed would make half of these universities part of this academy, it would be good, because it would promote some fluctuations, some competition. Especially since there are really very good universities among these universities and there are great universities. I have a ranking in front of me, and I would love to read the first ten, and I don't think it's gonna be a bad thing, because my previous speaker has already spoken here. This is the ranking from last year. So in first place is Gorzów, second place is Kalisz, third place is Biała Podlaska, fourth place is Tarnów, fifth place is Opole, sixth place is Gniezno, seventh place is Jarosław and Łomża, ninth place, ex aequo Nowy Sącz and Przemyśl. So it's noticeable, it's noticeable that it's a big potential that these are big academic campuses, that it's already a tradition that there's also scientific research there. I'm talking about it because here it's said that like the academy, it's research. So it's all there. And the measure of which one is the best... We know that specifying certain measures... It's best if they're qualitative and easily verifiable, because then there's less, so to speak, discretion, and we don't want discretion, right? The criteria here are acceptable for me, but these requirements for the number of students are, in my opinion, too low. There's 100 students in college every day. Well, I have to say that for me, as a professor, an academic teacher, an extremely important element of science and higher education is the academic community. The academic community are professors, academic teachers and students. Well, it's the environment that can't function on Saturdays and Sundays. It's got to be stationed students after all. They have to see each other. After all, the main influence in the relationship of the student occurs when these people meet while they are in their company. That is why I make such an amendment to make this provision 250, of which at least 100 students are educated in stationary studies, but replace the uniform proposal: 300 students in stationary studies. And let me say more: if I were able to convince the opponents of the law who declared rejecting it at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I would be ready to verify this number up to 500. Because I think this bill is very much needed. And raising the bar... Then half the doubts that were raised at the committee's meeting would have been removed. Especially since this requirement of the number of students can be met by anyone. It's not like we're adjusting it to the reality we found. We can't. Of course, we create laws for specific people, people, environments, but if there are objective conditions that can be met by all, then they can be formulated in this way. That's why I'd really encourage you to do that. This is where the numbers fell. I must say that during the committee meeting it was said that these schools are 225, 34 of which are public, but it was also said that 65 of them are in liquidation. So that's also quite disturbing the statistics. I must say that I am a senator from the magnificent city of Tarnow. Tarnów has a State Higher Vocational School, a very good professional school, a large school, which also has a beautiful campus. He is part of the barracks, as it is said in Małopolska, the Poustrians of that time, but there are also a number of new objects. We have the Institute of Polytechnic, we have the Institute of Sports Education, we also educate nurses and we have paramedical orientations. It's a total of 4,000 100 students, but among those 4,000 100 students, I specifically sent a text with a question about how many is daily, because if we have 100 daily, I think it would be good for this school to fall out. That's 3,000 students per day and a total of 4,000 100. And you'd want to address schools like this. And please understand that I am prepared to defend and ask here. I must say that for the first time in my long senate activity, however, I was in time to ask the applicant to withdraw the motion to reject the bill. With full conviction. Because I have this feeling that there are very good universities. In fact, my predecessor on that speaker talked about it. It's worth honoring. Someone will say, let them become dorms in normal mode, etc. I know it's not easy. I know that these efforts have been ongoing in Tarnów since 2006. But the next rectors say, "We don't want to force these formal conditions to be met so that, in two years' time, the name will be taken away from us." We want to do this right. In the meantime, a lot was built in terms of staffing potential and campus. There's scientific cooperation with Azotami... After all, we have in Tarnów the Azotas built by Professor Mościcki, later president. There are mechanical plants and there is very good cooperation with them. So this is all happening. And I as Senator of Tarnów Land, as well as President of the Tarnów Scientific Society, which supports not only the State Higher Vocational School, but also public universities, which in Tarnów are several And self-contained, and some subsidiaries... It's really worth it. I have to say that sometimes... There were just words about these basic workplaces. But, Senator, they all agree, they're talking about staff mobility. Well, isn't half of it enough if he's in the first place of work? Let's really aim people at what they do, not where they work. You can work in a basic workplace and not necessarily be effective in research, because that's what this is all about. You can have a lot of ideas, you can build several research teams in different places... That's why I'm asking you to accept this bill. I'm sure you'll have to monitor its functioning, but I think it's a bit of a bow towards the best, good schools that my predecessor and I have ever talked about, and I'm adding to that. I've listed these 10 schools, and I'm sorry about those who moved a few places in 2020, because then these differences aren't that big... I really urge you to support this bill. Of course, the rectors, academic teachers and students of these schools will be familiar with this Senate voice in some way, and they will be pleased if the Senate appreciates their long-term work and their efforts to some extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will immediately say that under no circumstances will I vote in favour of the Higher Education Act or the scientific community, which I will have doubts about whether it will serve this environment, the development of science, the development of research. In this case, I had serious doubts and therefore requested that this law be rejected in its entirety. This does not mean that our discussion in committee and today's Senate meeting is worthless, undoubtedly of a certain value, a certain rank, and this should be appreciated. What am I gonna pay attention to? The first thing, the most important and the most important thing, is that, generally speaking, we should pull higher education up, that is to say, bring to a situation such as to strengthen the centres of the strongest, leading research, having the largest number of students, building them a good atmosphere, financing them and taking care of the comfort of work of both those who are employed there and of course students. I've got a feeling. I'm not sure, but I'm impressed. That this solution we drag it down a bit instead of up. I know there are universities waiting for a simple legal formula to call themselves a dorm. I'm going to say that today there's no legal obstacle to becoming a dorm. Besides, we have a lot of academys. And I'm gonna point out that they're gonna have a problem first when there's other dorms. And let me remind you that we have the Academy of Fine Arts, we have the Academy of War Arts, we have the Academy of Theatrical Arts, we have the Kozminski Academy, we have various universities that have worked for their prestige for a very long time, for their position, for their name, for their reputation and for their reputation. And now, giving such an easy, far too easy way to change the name, we're actually disrupting everything that's associated with nicknames and university signposts extremely important, extremely noble, extremely valuable, with a huge acquis. And that's one thing. Second thing. I am aware that the link between lower education institutions and higher education institutions which educate at the doctoral level of educators, in a sense mandatory agreements to educate teachers, is a narrowing of the scope for teacher education. But one thing. It brings us Simply guarantee the quality of teacher education in general. I must say that I will orthodoxly defend the profession of teacher and the need to take care of extremely important pedagogical qualifications, which too often in the last 20, 30 years, i.e. after 1989 were, in short, denied or underestimated. Sometimes yes, sometimes yes. Another thing I want to draw attention to is the opinion of the environment. I attach great importance to them, and I know that the environments that speak with regard to the law that concerns them are usually extremely reserved. At the meeting of our committee, this opinion was also expressed with restraint both by the guest... We have an opinion formulated by KRAS, by artistic universities, and all these opinions are negative. The environment says no. And it does so in a diplomatic way, extremely calm, extremely balanced, with a very precise indication of both substantive and legal arguments. I will not read these opinions, because I will not have enough time, but I will pay attention to the wordings that appeared in these opinions. Because universities point out the serious doubts raised by the proposed changes. There are doubts about the creation of a double standard within the higher education system as regards the criteria for the appointment of entities in the higher education system. We're going to have universities that have to meet very high criteria, and here we are, all of a sudden, universities that meet the criteria so low... As the chairman of the committee said, it is too low, so it needs to be corrected. But that's not enough. The second thing, the name. That was the argument. Whether it's the academy of applied sciences or practical sciences, etc. There was a proposal from Professor Sewerinski to add an adjective to make it easier to identify universities. But it's not possible, not under these conditions. I, generally speaking, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, declare that we can meet certain expectations of certain vocational schools, but not in this way, not in such a way, not with such criteria and not with the connection of reducing the possibility, so to speak, to guard the qualifications of the teachers themselves. As far as universities are concerned, they don't say anything like that. The Academy of War Arts, but the others speak straight And these are already legal issues, that the law establishing a new category of higher education under the name "Practical Academies' is contrary to the spirit of the Law on State Higher Education, hits the prestige of higher education and, above all, is detrimental to the idea of the highest quality education of children in primary and secondary education. If the environment speaks so strongly, so decisively, not only can it not be ignored, but we should also work on this project in an absolutely new version, prepared from scratch, taking into account the opinion of the environment. And another wording, which appears in the second opinion: the proposed changes consciously blur the differences between the two pathways of university development, are also unnecessary, because it is possible for a professional university to obtain the right to use the name Yeah, it's possible. Only other criteria need to be met. I'll add two more things that are important from my point of view. In view of the fact that I have been a minister of culture for quite a long time, I am attached very strongly to the achievements of the academy not only of fine arts, but also of theatre academy or film academy. I know how many environments they put into that name, I'd say, an emotional element. Well, it's important to remember that the academy is in the original sense a gathering of scholars. Here is the reception that it is a gathering of artists, artists of professors, artists with specific competences, qualifications, achievements. And it seems that the appearance on the university market Also in the field of fine arts, which will have 100 students in daily studies, i.e. 20 per 1 year, is actually not serious. And here we all, generally speaking, agreed, including the right side. But I don't think that's the only criterion. I don't attach that much importance to the orthodox, to the 50 and whether it's 60%. , or 70% , or 50%. What matters is what employees are like, what qualifications, whether they build the prestige of the university or not. But I must also say that a certain number of courses and learning opportunities in the field of not only Bachelors but also Masters should be mandatory from my point of view. There's one last thing I want to say. I don't judge the ministry's intentions in this matter. Perhaps intentions are good, perhaps it was an attempt to meet certain expectations of several universities. Because of these 40 to more than 200 universities probably would like to change their name by now. But I have to say right away that this solution, which is proposed here, is going to hurt all the other 200 universities. And this opinion is de facto confirmed by the position of rectors of universities and academics. So I want to make it clear here: we're going to help a dozen, but we're going to hurt over 200 universities. Let's not do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Danuta Jazłowiecka and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made speeches for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Kazimierz Wind has made a legislative proposal. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposal put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u245	I mean, as a representative of the Ministry of Education and Science, I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u246	Thank you very much. [[What amendment?]] Corrections. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act establishing the Zamość Academy. The text of the Act is contained in print No 457 and the report of the Commission In print No 457 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe two sentences corrigendum. It seems we're confusing two concepts here, i.e. Academy and adjective academy. These are two different things, and that's why I feel a little galamatias in this discussion. The Academy remains a dormitory in a group of universities, with requirements that are strictly defined here, with the obligation to have a doctoral right in 2 directions, etc., etc. Second corrigendum. The ranking was quoted here, so I'd like to add And in some ways, let's brag about it. The university in Chelm is in sixth place in the ranking, it has one super direction for which the recruitment is already more than 300 people, it is a special aviation speciality with an airplane pilot, giving all the powers to then take the helm of a passenger plane. This is a free direction. And let me add, as a curiosity, that there are no students in Chelm who are absentee only in their daily studies. [[Mr. Senator, I am so sorry, but I remind you that you are the rapporteur...]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[...on the establishment of the Zamość Academy.]] Okay, well, I'm on the subject right now... [[And none of the sentences that you've spoken were relevant to this academy.]] But, Mr. Marshal... [[I respectfully... but I wanted to make that remark, because the current point is the Zamość Academy and...]] Yes, sir. We're already at that point. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport I gave the name correctly this time. From 14 July of this year on the subject of the draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy, contained in Senate printing No. 457. Although the title of the Act itself does not raise any controversy and can be regarded as an initiative extremely important for the higher education system and, above all, for Zamojszczyzna, it is worth to read more about the content of this legal act. The aim of the Act is to create on 1 September 2021. Zamość Academy. The projector proposes that this be done through the transformation of the State University since 2005. Simon Simonovice in Zamość. Further provisions of the draft law provide for the Academy to take over all rights and obligations and property of the university. According to art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act staff employed at the university will become staff of the academy. But in the mouth. The above-mentioned article in the Act states that the employment relationship with the employee will expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act if he is not offered new working conditions and wages before that date, or if he fails to accept new working conditions and wages. Art. 5 says that students, post-graduate students, specialized education and other forms of university education will become students or participants in post-graduate studies, specialized training or other forms of academy education, respectively. The same applies to those enrolled for the first year of their studies for the 2021/2022 academic year, who will become those admitted for the first year of their studies at the Academy. In addition, the members of the university senate and the members of the university council elected for their term of office on the date of entry into force of the Act will become members of the Senate of the first term of office of the academy or members of the academy council respectively. The autonomy of a university, much of which is referred to in the Constitution for Science, is not reflected in the provisions concerning the body of a single university, which is the rector. The proposal provides that the current university rector will no longer be in office and that the first rector of the academy will be appointed by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science until the end of the term of office started on 1 September 2020. The first statute of the academy shall be given by the Minister responsible for higher education. Since the provisions of the Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science provide that the term "Academia" in the name of a university is reserved for the name of a university, art. The 6th bill of opinion assumes that the newly created academy will comply with the requirements of the university by the time the second one is completed, after the establishment of the academy, the evaluation of scientific activities, i.e. probably until 2026. Failure to comply with this requirement will mean that the university loses its right to use in its name the noun of the Academy. Consequently, the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science will change the name of the Academy. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. During the discussion, it was noted that today's legislation was not consulted with or asked for an opinion from university authorities. It is unacceptable to create a practice for the establishment of a new entity in the higher education system on the basis of the assets of an existing university to be carried out without knowledge and discussion with the academic community concerned. In addition, it was claimed that the existing provisions of the Law on Higher Education and Science clearly state the conditions that the Academy must fulfil. They do not refer to the conditional establishment of any type of university. The Law on Higher Education and Science makes it clear that the word "Academia" is reserved for the name of a university, i.e. a university carrying out scientific activities and having a scientific category A+, A or B+ in at least 1 scientific or artistic discipline. The first evaluation to be carried out by the Zamość University will only be carried out in 2022. Until then, the name of the university may be changed to one which contains the word "academia" provided that it has at least 2 powers to confer a doctoral degree. The information available in the public space indicates that the National University. Simon Simonowice in Zamość does not meet the stated requirements and is just making efforts towards a scientific promotion to legally seek to transform into an academy. The article has already been cited as highly controversial. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, in which the legislator decided that the relationship between work and university employees would expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act, if they had not been offered new working conditions and wages before that date, or if new working conditions and wages had not been adopted. The solution adopted is definitely detrimental to the employees and raises doubts about the purity of the intention of the creators of the law. I would like to add here that your negative position on this matter was expressed by Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko, Chief Labour Inspector. We have not found here a factual and legal justification for the withdrawal from the general principles provided for by the Labour Code and the Law on Higher Education and Science concerning the termination of employment relationships with academic teachers and non-university staff. I also do not think that politicians are competent to make a substantive assessment of academic teachers working at Zamość University, which has never received a negative assessment of the quality of education from the Polish Accreditation Commission. The mere fact that the university changes its status from professional to academic cannot be considered as a basis for changes in staff. She expressed her opinion on the draft law on the creation of the Zamoj Academy, among others. The Polish Academy of Sciences, which pointed out that the statement contained in the justification for the draft of this legal act, that the main objective of the reactivated Zamość Academy requires that the education in it should be carried out with emphasis on the learning of history and the in-depth Polish humanities and social studies, created in the spirit of philosophical realism and Christian national tradition, is contrary to the constitution, the principle of freedom to practice science, freedom to discuss and exchange views, freedom to seek and pursue the truth. A negative position on the establishment of the Zamość Academy was also expressed by the General Council of Science and Higher Education, proposing that this initiative be postponed until the State University has completed it. Simon Simonowice in Zamość statutory conditions related to obtaining academy status. A similar opinion was also expressed by the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland and the Conference of Rectors of Public Professional Universities. In view of the many doubts and criticisms regarding the motives of the formation and content of the contested law, the Committee on Science, Education and Sports of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, by votes 8:3 asks that the Act on the establishment of the Zamość Academy be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I too, Senator rapporteur, allow me to exercise the right to ask you a question. Listening carefully to your report, I have the impression that we are dealing here with some extremely controversial, I am not saying that politically, because I did not take it at all in political terms, but with some very controversial substantive bill. I wonder and I would like to know, I am looking for an answer to the question: why are we even looking after it? A list of charges you've made as a person I don't suspect of any excessive reluctance to do this kind of thing... [[Absolutely.]] ...a list of charges that you, Mr. Senator, have made, in my eyes, highly disqualifying this bill. I wonder why we're even talking about her. What real political reason do you see us doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u249	Mr. Marshal, I'll answer right away: I'd like an answer, too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u250	Thank you. Then I ask you to ask Senator Marek Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u251	I can only repeat that this list of charges is so basic and fundamental that it's just some kind of puriazum. I wonder why three senators voted in favour of this law. But they're the ones who'll defend her, or maybe they won't. Because the marshal was wondering why, where, what, etc., I'm gonna talk about this case. In the so-called. There's a rumor about public space, because, as everyone has noticed, it's a strange change in the name behind which the termination of the relationship with those you're going to want to release, and among them the rector... Because it's clear that the rector will want to quit, because it says there that the new rector will be appointed Minister of Education... [[Voice from the room: Black.]] I think it's Minister Czarnek, isn't it? There is such a rumor that all this change, so scandalous, is only done to cast one of the Members as the president. I'm not going to name names, although I know them. In any case, this certainly involves the fact that the governing camp, however, is looking for a stable majority. Have you heard anything about it, or do you know that name?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u252	Yes, I did, and I do, but I can't answer that question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Everyone who read Ilji Erenburg's novel, we know what Leizorek Rojtszwiec said, that if they slow down, they will accept. This knowledge accompanies us from now on.]] If you don't mind, I'd like to add that remark. The biggest problem is with the rector: the rector is chosen. And now it's a matter of determining who's still elected by the Senate, because at the moment, the other government is choosing the rector, not the senate. I may call them that a little bit more maliciously otherwise, it is not appropriate in this House to repeat it... I think he can only fire the Senate of the university, and other forms... Or for some reason, the minister, but it's for some reason. And this is where we suspend ourselves when it comes to implementing the proposals that are in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u253	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. Please, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u254	Thank you very much, although in fact the questions have already been asked. I would first like to thank the senator for such thorough information about the committee meeting. After hearing Senator Borowski's information, we already figured out what's going on. Anyway, I'd like to ask you a question like this. Are you Senator Rapporteur? Knows Or maybe the Minister, because it was a parliamentary project, what were the Members' intentions in preparing this project, although we know that they did not prepare it? What inspired them to present this project? Maybe that answer won't come up, so I'm taking time... But I hope that after all these votes, the High Senate will know how this project should be... where it really should end. And we've actually shown everything. And these voices, the smiles here, on our side, show what law we're dealing with. I hope that there will be no more such laws that they will not have to be procedated and will not just mock all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u255	I can answer that. I feel pretty guilty, yeah. I'll explain why. Being around Zamość, and also in Zamość, where I practiced my passions, namely aviation, gliding, I had to deal with the news that came to me about how 3 universities in Zamość function. Well, until recently, this state was put between two very energetic, even, to say, aggressively conducted, well run non-public universities. And I encouraged the local city managers, the region, to help the state, who didn't get much help compared to, for example, The one in Tarnów that you quoted... It's a completely different situation. And quite recently, somewhere about six months ago, I was talking to Mr Zawislak, actually urging him to do so, saying, "Help this university, in the sense of its salary, in the financial sense of "Many cities help the universities beginners, also financially." So that she could somehow have a chance and be able to exist. I think it's been misunderstood. [[You talked the senator into it.]] I talked him into it, yeah. And I kind of feel like I'm here, confessing to something like that. Nevertheless, this is the most embarrassing issue in all of this. It's that the rector of this university is here. The university has not been contacted in these activities. It's like someone came into my yard and said... Ba, he didn't go into the backyard, he just said, "Now I'm gonna prepare my own property papers here and it's gonna be mine." This is really outrageous. I have nothing against Zamość to make it clear that Chróścikowski's colleague is a senator from these parts, and I really like this city. But that kind of action... well, it doesn't seem to happen in college circles.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u256	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u257	University for 15 years in a natural, very consistent way The progress in science is undoubtedly more than satisfactory. Looking at the name of this law, about the founding of the Zamość Academy, I have a question. Wouldn't it be more appropriate to refer to the law on the liquidation of the State University. Simon Simonovic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u258	Well, I'm shot with that question. In view of the one that's being presented here, I understand... Would you mind if I didn't answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u259	I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. It's not substantive, it's about the procedure. Well, the project, the one that entered the Sejm, had a date of March 17th this year, and we are considering it, practically, 25 days before the end of the term, which is in a sense a binding term... The point is that the bill comes into force after 14 days and if supported by us, the Sejm would have to be adopted at the next meeting, and then it's actually in touch with the President's powers, which is 21 days plus publication. Was it explained at the committee meeting, why this was the case, i.e. so that this acceleration occurred just before the possible last date by which this law may still enter into force as intended? Were there any questions, any reflections on the subject?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u261	No, we didn't talk about it. There's some things you can guess, but it wasn't mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u262	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Sławomir Zawislak was authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. As I understand it, there is no Member, and he will, of course, not speak on the bill under consideration as well. The senators won't be surprised by my next statement. We will not be able to ask questions to the Member. However, there is a representative of the government in the sitting room. I therefore ask the senator and the minister whether a representative of the government would like to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Education and Science does not comment on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u264	Thank you very much. But the senator is aware, knowing the practice of our House, of the fact that the senators will now be able to ask no more than a minute of questions to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. The first is Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u265	Mr. Marshal, I have a brief question for the Minister. I would like him to tell me what it means to be taught in a spirit... no, not in a spirit, but on the basis of philosophical realism and Christian national tradition. What does philosophical realism mean, and what does Christian national tradition mean? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u266	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u267	I'm sorry, but there's been a misunderstanding. Yes, I did because of my education. I am at the back, Mr. Marshal, ready to discuss this, even beyond the time allowed for discussion and debate on this project, in order to explain the meaning of the concept of philosophical realism or the second category that you mentioned, but the right person to whom this question should be addressed is the applicant's representative. I am taking this place, I am sitting here and I am taking part in this debate because, apparently, 234 Members voted in favour of the bill in the Sejm. Someone was asking why this bill was in the Senate. Because the democratic majority in the Sejm voted this law. [[Mrs. Marshal, it's a formal matter. However, I would very much ask the Minister to approach the podium. Why should we turn around or talk back to him?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u268	Minister, I would very much ask for this. If the senators are asking you to be at the podium, I would ask you very much. Senator Borusewicz would like to ask, I understand. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u269	Minister, Senator, you're sending me back to Berdych. Because you're sending me back to a rapporteur who isn't here. So I'm asking you, if you're able to explain, very briefly, what these two concepts are meant by the principle of student education at this possible university. [[Voice from the room: This is not in the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u270	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u271	Mr. Marshal, believe me... [[But it's on the Ministry's website.]] We are discussing a bill here, which is whether or not it was a parliamentary project. And the same thing. I will repeat what I said earlier once again, I really feel prepared to answer questions about the meaning of the terms you are asking, but this will not be appropriate for the project under discussion. Actually, it wasn't a project, it was a bill, because this project became a bill by the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u272	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any questions? Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u273	Minister, you can't do that, you can't do that. You just said, not on your behalf, not as a senator. Or as a man, but as a representative of the Ministry, that you do not object to this bill. So the project... this bill gets the absolute approval of the Ministry of Education and Science. That means you accept it, and it's gonna come into force. For many senators, on both sides of this House, the opinion of the Ministry, which is responsible for the bill, is very important. And as you say that you do not object, we believe that you approve of all of this, so you should defend this law as independence. That's because the Ministry is keeping all the regulations that concern education and science as good as possible and as appropriate to all laws, etc. With the kind of reservations we've heard here, you can't refuse to answer questions and say that you don't object, and yet you're not responsible. No, the ministry should either make reservations or defend it, because it's gonna come into force. If the Ministry accepted it, because that's the majority in the Sejm... Sorry, I had to say this, but that's what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u274	Would the Minister like to comment? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Well, there was no question, so I find it difficult to answer.]] Please, Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u275	Thank you very much. Minister, you said that you did not raise objections to the law, and I understand that you also raise no objections and support the provision on withdrawal from the general rules on termination of employment with the staff of the university mentioned in the law. Is that true?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u276	I'm not sure, but really... I am here a representative of the Ministry of Education and Science and I have been obliged to state unambiguously that the Ministry of Education and Science I am Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science It does not object to the adoption of the law as it was adopted at the session of the Sejm. Let me add that the deadline for the Senate to proceed is now approaching, because the time allowed for the bill to proceed is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u277	Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u278	So, as I understand it, Minister, you are in favour of such a solution, which is enshrined in this law, that the employment contract with university employees will expire 3 months after the entry into force of this law. Yes? End of story? [[Voice from the room: And new staff will come.]] And new staff will come. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Please?]] The new staff will be here. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: I was talking about the bill as a whole...]] Yes, but one of the elements of this law is how the relationship between work and workers will be resolved. This way is contrary to the Law of the Labour Law. I understand that you support such a solution that is contrary to previous practice. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u279	The Ministry of Education and Science does not comment on the Act which was adopted on 8 July 2021. [[Then I have no further questions. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u280	Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Thank you very much.]] The Rector of the State University is with us. Simon Simonovich in Zamość, Mr. Andrzej Samborski. I'd like to ask if the Rector would like to speak. [[Rector of the State University Simon Simonovich in Zamość Andrzej Samborski: Yes, if you please.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Excellent senate! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for inviting me and giving me the opportunity to speak on a matter which concerns the State University I am directing. Simon Simonovice in Zamość. First of all, I would like to stress that the draft law on the establishment of the Zamość Academy was not consulted with the academic community, authorities and institutions of the university and we were not asked for an opinion on this project. The last meeting with me on the reactivation of the Zamość Academy took place in the town hall, with the president of the city of Zamość, on 17 February 2020, which is before the outbreak of the pandemic. At this meeting there was a general discussion about the need to establish the Zamość Academy, but there was no presentation of the bill or its records, because simply such a project It hasn't been done yet. Personally, I believe that a change in the name and statute of the university requires that, in addition to the rector, the college's collegial bodies, the university council, the university senate, should also comment on this issue. On 5 May 2021, before the first meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, a joint meeting of the university council and the university senate took place at the university, during which collegial bodies took the appropriate position. The content of this position was sent to the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek and to the secretariat of the committee. In this letter, the authorities state that the project submitted to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland was not consulted with the university authorities. Probably, ladies and gentlemen, we have not been presented with a draft law because of the very adverse conditions concerning university staff, especially the article mentioned here many times. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3th Act, which states that employment relations with employees expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act, if they are not offered new working conditions and wages before that date or if new working conditions and wages are not adopted. Of course, the project is incompatible with the provisions of the Law of 20 July 2018. There was no talk about it here, but earlier there was a parliamentary interpellation... no, not an interpellation, only such a government project, but then the Minister, Mrs Budzanowska, stated that the records of this project did not meet the conditions that would enable the establishment of an academy in Zamość. It has already been mentioned here that the project does not meet either... that it undermines the statutes of the university, which §4 says that the university is autonomous in all areas of its activity. I would also like to add that, when presenting the project, legislators often refer to the draft law on the basis of which it was established in 2016. The academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. But here's a little detail: they don't say that that project was being processed on the basis of a completely different law, dated 27 July 2005, and Most importantly, and very importantly, it was reported by the academic community, i.e. the rector and senate, and left the workers to date, providing them with work. Mrs. Marshal! Excellent senate! The State University in Zamość was set up as compensation This was discussed here for the city of Zamość for the lost status of the voivodship city 7 years after the liquidation of the voivodship. It's one of the most recently created of 35 universities of this type. The first vocational institutions have been in operation for over 23 years. Except for a few of the ones mentioned here. Kalisz, Gorzów, White Podlaska They do not fulfil the conditions for applying for academy status. We have been operating for 16 years and I believe that, for the region's capabilities, the labour market, the demographic situation is doing very well. I also want to say that we worked very hard on the university's assets. Almost every building out of the five that we already own, so to speak, pulled out, bought at more or less occasional prices, no one gave us anything for free. And today, from numerous articles and statements of the members of the committee appointed to organize the Zamość Academy, we learn about the attempt to take over our university together with our wealth. What I'm trying to say is that so far, none of the members of this committee have talked to us about this. I also do not know on what basis some Members and members of this Committee are being negatively judged. After all, each direction so far assessed by the Polish Accreditation Commission has received a positive assessment, the university pursues its statutory objectives and tasks, fulfills the mission of training staff for the regional and national labour market and securing the needs of employers and young people living in Zamość. We have very good contacts with the Catholic and Orthodox Church, because we also educate students from Ukraine, mostly with the Polish Charter. We also have very good financial results, despite many ongoing investments The last year, for example, is an investment linked to the creation of a high fidelity medical simulation centre. We have ambitions to become a university in the future, but we want to do so in accordance with the rules of the applicable law, respectful of the customs and traditions of the academic world, not contrary to that law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Rector. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u283	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Senate! Mr. Rector! I must say that when I applied for the rejection of the law, I had regard to the three basic values that are extremely important to me. First of all, respect for the autonomy of the university, which is being violated here. Secondly, the conviction that the authorities elected legally may not lose this power for a certain term of office as a result of the law. I am also not in favour of the Minister's appointment, but not just out of respect for this achievement, it seems that a short, 16-year-old university itself, but above all to plans that have recently been built with a view to how this university, generally speaking, is to develop. I have to say, I've been looking at this school ever since this idea came up. I have noticed the great determination to improve the material condition, to improve the quality of education, to look for such directions as would suit the needs of the region. This was done with great sensitivity, consistently, in an evolutionary manner, without jerks, as well as with extraordinary determination. Mr. Rector. I think we all know that. It is elected for a second term. He's already got some work to do. As I remember, he is born in Zamość, and therefore it is difficult for him to refuse patriotism, involvement not only in the development of the university, but also in the development of the town itself. That's what I do with a lot of respect, a lot of respect. I want to stress that I didn't accidentally ask if it wasn't a college liquidation, not a vocation, because the project itself looks like a robbery. The attack on a good university, which develops consistently, stablely and in an extremely responsible manner, with respect for the region and the city. It's like a robbery, kind of like a Budapest thing. I absolutely don't accept it. The second point, which is very important to me, is the opinion not only of the environment, which could not express its opinion, because nobody wanted it, but also of all those who took an interest in this law and presented their own views. This was also done by the Polish Academy of Sciences. The opinion of the Polish Academy of Sciences, signed by Jerzy Duszyński, is, of course, negative. I'm not gonna quote her so I don't take up time. Another thing I'm paying attention to. Mr. Rector said so. The fact is that the university also acquired a certain amount of property. This property was not given, it was obtained in accordance with the needs. Nine directions were created, an interesting Centre for Research and Technology Transfer was created, its own development program. I can subscribe to the opinion expressed by the rector authorities that the status of the academy should be achieved through natural development, evolution, not a breach in law and revolution. We senators are likely to reject this bill. Supporters of such a vote are also on my right. I also hope that we will create here a group of sympathizers of this university to defend it to take care of its good atmosphere, defend it from current politics, from such or other interests. But I also keep my fingers crossed for this university to become the Zamość Academy with my own strength, not just as a result of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u284	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're dealing with this classic nobility inn. The university in Zamość is to be taken over in its entirety by a new team, a new management. There's supposed to be a new staff there, as I understand it. A solution has therefore been applied which has only been applied to public television workers so far. Everyone is fired and if they are not invited to continue their work within 3 months, they are gone, they are out of the company. That's when it was on TV, and now it's at college. So this is the first case that I want to draw attention to and which causes my indignation. This outrage at a time when the Radio and TV Act was being amended was understandable, but here we are dealing with a similar solution applied in a completely different environment, in an academic environment that should be stable, which should have an appropriate perspective. Scientists cannot suddenly learn that they have a 3-month working horizon. In the mid-1990s there was a law on transformations, privatisations, etc., but there was an article there. 581. All the unions said, "Yeah, but art." 581 must be implemented. What was the point of this article? 581? After all, such transformations were based on the fact that employees became employees of a new, transformed company or institution. And it was our eyeball in the head, everyone, so as not to throw people out on the street, because someone has a new crew or has a new idea and interrupts not only the operation of the company, changes the name of the company, but also interrupts the continuity that employees should be guaranteed. Some statements in the explanatory memorandum are very interesting. I asked the Minister. The Minister said he was philosophically prepared to explain concepts, but I didn't hear what it meant. Here it is written that the main goal of the reactivated Zamość Academy requires that the education that takes place in Zamość is based on the teaching of history, in-depth Polish studies, etc., created in the spirit of philosophical realism and Christian national tradition. Since the Minister did not explain, I will explain, because I studied at KUL, as well as Minister Czarnek. Well, philosophical realism is a concept, that is neotomism, philosophy, which is, of course, the main philosophy of the Polish Church or at least was in my time of CUL. It's neotomism. And the Christian national tradition is a concept that was used by ONR before the war, the OWP of Great Poland, the National and Radical Camp, or extreme nationalists. I understand what Christian philosophy means according to... But Christian philosophy of national tradition is a concept that was applied then, it is an ideological concept, it is not a philosophical concept. As I continue to read the justification, my suspicions are confirmed. In the explanatory memorandum it is written: "Academy, preparing national and national elites... It goes on to say that education applies to people with an environment that pursues regional, state and national policies. I know what state means, I know what regional means. What does that mean, "national"? How national is this academy gonna educate, what values... [[National.]] It's obviously... This is justified and derived from this complex sentence, that it will be educated in the Christian national tradition. This change is intended to refer to the Great Zamość Academy, the Zamość Academy, which was one of the most important in addition to Vilnius and Krakow. Next to the Cracow and Vilnius Academy Zamość was at the end of the 16th century this third, extremely significant, important. And in reference to this Zamość Academy, which was an open academy, it was the dorm of the Republic of Poland of both Nations, where Poles, Rusini, now known as Ukrainians, could be educated. And Lithuanians, now there will also be national education. Ladies and gentlemen, the beginning, as it is written in the explanatory memorandum, took place in 2000, when Bishop Jan Śrutwa sent a letter to the Catholic authorities of the University of Lublin asking for the support of the academic staff of the university in Zamość. And at the moment, Minister Czarnek is carrying out this message. Minister Czarnek and his entire team will form this university, a new university, he will go in with his entire team. From the virtues of the women, from the other things we hear about... Such people are going to shape the university and be shaped by young people at this university. It's supposed to be Minister Czarnek's private college. That's what it looks like. That's why so fast, so fast. That's why I thought of it. There's Zamość near Lublin, throw a beret. And it is to be a private national university, also a private minister who will create it for state money, for public money, without destroying what this school has done in Zamość, which has been in a difficult situation for many years. Mr. Rector, I congratulate you for running this school under these conditions. I was in Zamość, the Member was giving me a tour And I remember what he said about these three universities and about the problems of a public university that was in an increasingly difficult situation. But if the university is in a difficult situation, it does not mean that it can be taken over in such a way that it can be taken over by the inn and do something completely different there, which will be called the Zamość Academy and will refer to the university from the end of the 16th century, but it will have nothing to do with this Zamość University. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I asked you a question that you probably remember, and I got the answer I was expecting. I have to say, I'm not sure how to say it. I'm devastated, absolutely. Just like I've been a parliamentarian for 30 years, I haven't seen such an insolent, corrupt bill. They were different. Of course, there were those that did business, business, etc., etc., but there was absolutely no such thing, it just wasn't. We are dealing with, as was said here, an inn, an assassination, an attack on an existing university that is coping. And it's just to subdue her to her own... Of course, we're talking about Minister Nicholas, who is one of those who signed the project. And he did it to carry out some of his fantasmagories, his politician, because politics is hard to call it. But not only because, of course, you have to cast the man who will do all this and at the same time cast the man who is needed in the Seym, who is needed for voting. Well, I don't know how to put it. Recently, and here I'm going to address mostly my friends and colleagues on the right side of the room... There are a lot of differences between us, as we know, but we support ourselves here, sometimes we argue, we accuse each other of things, but I think there's some kind of connection, some kind of unity after all. Well, for example. in the area of nepotism, which you have condemned recently, you have adopted an appropriate resolution, and the president of your club responded publicly, which was, so to speak, a very well-accepted, courageous speech. And after all, we are dealing with this kind of law, which is pure political corruption. You know as well as I do what this is all about and who you want to fill in there, and why you do it. I don't know... Can we, as the Senate, demonstrate our opposition in any matter? I don't know what the Sejm will do about it, but there really shouldn't be any difference between us. That is why I call on you, first of all, to reflect on this issue and demonstrate it in the vote, but also to speak within your own club, with your colleagues in the Sejm. Well, you can't play that kind of thing, it's contributing to the social degrengolad. That means anything's possible. And then it's really hard to get out of it, and it's really hard to convince people, society, that whoever's in charge... Maybe they'll also be your options that want to convince you that things like this aren't gonna happen anymore. But then people won't believe it anymore. That's why... I don't want to say that I hope that I don't have hope, but I urge the Senate, on this matter, to show that it is this upper chamber, that it is this House that cares about legal order and decency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u289	After such excellent speakers, I would just like to say a few sentences. The word "Budapest" fell here in the discussion and I will repeat it. Some senators were spinning their heads at the time and they said no, not at all. In Hungary, however, it was thought that Orban would not allow such a situation. However, at the end of its power, which it may lose in the forthcoming elections, because the opposition united there, at the end of its power by decree or law, it led to the privatisation of Hungarian universities. It's been taken over by the foundations where Orban's people rule, and they want it for life. To this extent it has been taken over. There is also a desire to provide all this and to finance it from European funds. That's where we're dealing with this process. In Poland there is no such situation yet, but today's example shows that if, with all due respect, but with a small university in Zamość it is possible to do something like this, it can be done with every subsequent university. If the head of the education department is Minister Czarnek, who is, as we know, a person capable of various things, this is probably the last moment to hit the alarm, because there will be further conclusions. If this works, if we let it happen, if there's no firm response, it'll go on. I assure you that any local activist may wish to take over a university in his territory... And he's gonna change her name, and then he's gonna ask his friend, the minister of education, to put him in the position of the rector. That's how it's gonna look. I'm just saying it. We've got the first swallow, we've got something like this here, and we're either gonna crush it, we're gonna give a strong signal from the Senate, or it's gonna happen again. I have the impression that this Minister of Education, the worst in history, is capable of it, simply. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And don't shake your head, because that's not the kind of thing we've seen before, for example. on the judiciary. It seemed to everyone that there would not be such scandals, and led to a degrengolada of the judiciary and a degrengolada of the media. And now the destruction of higher education begins. Let us realize that and try to prevent it while there is still time until it has gone far. I am shocked by what I heard here today in the discussion. I am shocked that the Ministry supports this project and probably simply cooperates in this whole history, including the inn, including the robbery, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u290	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Janusz Pęcherz, Wojciech Nebula, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. Rector, for coming. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the law on open data and the re-use of public sector information. The text of the Act is contained in print No 469 and the report of the Commission In print No 469 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u291	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present the committee's report on the Open Data Act and the re-use of public sector information; Senate printing No 469. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee took place on 3 August and was attended by Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz, who presented the scope of the Act as well as a representative of the ISACA association, i.e. President Barbara Nerć-Szymańska, and representative of the Supreme Administrative Court, member of the case law office, Professor Wojciech Sawczyn. 6 amendments were proposed at the meeting and all of these amendments were accepted. Therefore, I will ask the High House to accept the bill together with these amendments. The Act implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on open data and the re-use of public sector information. The aim of the Act is to increase the supply of open data, including information on significant value and potential to create new services and products, and to create an optimal regulatory environment for the efficient use of public sector information. I would also like to present how this bill... covers what it covers. The scope of the Act includes the introduction of rules for the free provision of public sector information, with certain exceptions, and the mode and mode of communication for re-use; the modified rules for the provision of information to public museums, local museums, public libraries, scientific libraries, pedagogical libraries and archives; the rules and modalities for the sharing of research data produced or collected in the framework of a public-funded scientific activity; the rules and modalities for making public-sector information available and the re-use of public-sector information, in particular having the characteristics of a work or subject matter of related rights; the obligation to develop a policy for open access to public-funded research data by the Minister responsible for higher education and science; the principles and modalities for making available dynamic data of the public sector established in electronic form, subject to frequent updates; the principles and modalities for the provision of high-value data Public sector information whose re-use entails significant benefits for society, the environment and the economy; the introduction of an obligation to develop a programme for the opening of data by the Minister responsible for IT, in order to increase the quantity and quality of public sector information and private data and metadata describing their structure, made available on the data portal; the rules and modalities for making public sector information of particular importance for the development of innovation in the country or for the development of the information society; the rules and modalities for making private data available of particular importance for the development of innovation in the country or for the development of the information society; the positions of data openness proxy It is mandatory for the Minister in charge of government administration to provide information in the form of a request for re-use. In addition, the Act defines inter alia. a data portal operated by the Minister responsible for IT. The High Izbo, the amendments I mentioned earlier, have been approved. I would also ask the High House to approve all these 6 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like the senator to develop the issues of competence or legitimacy, because the bill creates this position as a proxy for data openness. It's another office. Will it be a clerk? Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? I ask because we already have a lot of different institutions, a lot of attorneys, so that the citizen is already lost in it, but there is also a very complex structure here. So maybe the senator would like to say more about the appointment of this attorney: who will appoint him, whether he is as independent from the government administration or dependent? What's the situation? I understand that he's gonna be with the minister responsible for digitalization, which means I understand that somehow within the framework of the government structure, but maybe closer... I'd ask for some information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u294	Yeah, it's all focused right now, in the current structure, at the premiere, and it's just... I mean, computerization and cybersecurity are at the premiere right now. And that's where the data is, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u295	Anyone else? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, the new directive introduces a high value data category which must be made available in principle free of charge, also obliges public sector authorities to make dynamic data available for reuse and extends the scope of the Directive to data from public undertakings. I would like to ask how much it will cost Poland to implement this directive. What is the maximum total expenditure limit for 2021/2030, and how much will this directive cost each year? Was that on the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u297	At the committee meeting, there was no mention of the costs to be incurred. You're the minister, perhaps...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u298	I think, Senator, this is more of a question for the Minister. [[Or to the Minister... but I have one more question. Could I...]] [[Good.]] [[They wrote him wrong...]] Calm down, please. [[I'm sorry.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would also like to ask you about the positives in terms of economic innovation and the quality of life of society. Was there any mention of the positive implementation of this directive?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u300	Yeah, we were talking about the fact that it's going to be focused in one place, that you're going to be able to look in one place... Just like in other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u301	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz's room. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Yes]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u302	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to begin by thanking Senator Lamczyk, who presented the committee's report, and has largely discussed this government presentation that we discussed during the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure. The main objective of the law on open data and the re-use of public sector information is to increase the supply of data in the Polish economy, but also the quality of these data. Supply alone, in our opinion, is not enough The quality of these data must also be ensured so that they can be re-used for various purposes, including for the development of the Polish state, by entrepreneurs or by organisations which use such data. It is worth mentioning that the use of open data in the Polish economy is growing every year. By looking at data in Poland as a whole, we can say that today this market is estimated at about PLN 30 billion. In the next few years, this amount is likely to increase to about PLN 50 billion. As we know, today the data are treated as, you can say, oil 21st century. The implementation of the directive, which is transferred to national land by our law, is slightly extending this directive... This is in line with the expectations of the 21st century economy, the expectations of maximum data sharing. This is, on the one hand, the card of a modern state, which opens up, which gives the possibility to use public data e.g. entrepreneurs. On the other hand, it is about increasing the transparency of State action. When we analyse the level of openness of data in the country, we relate to how transparent the state is, how clear the state is and how limited bureaucracy is in this way. I would also like to mention that our actions in the context of the opening of public data are noted and appreciated by various international institutions, led by the European Commission, which conducts an annual ranking of the level of opening of public data in the countries of the European Union. It is worth mentioning that in the last ranking we have been promoted to the leaders of the opening of public data in the European Union - we are on the sixth place on the EU scale. This shows that Poland in this aspect of opening public data precedes countries richer than us, so it would seem, more technologically advanced, which is certainly a reason for us to be proud. This law, which we will adopt here, will cause even greater strengthening of the Polish state in this area. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski asked about the proxy for data openness. They are already de facto functioning, Mr. Senator, such plenipotentiaries are called in all the resorts of our government. These are officials who are already employed within a given unit. They carry out this activity in the context of the opening of public data socially and therefore do not have any functional add-ons. They are simply officials employed there. They create a network of proxy for data openness, which supports us in obtaining data from various types of government units for the needs of, among others. data.gov.pl portal, which is currently the largest data depositorium in Poland and one of the largest in Europe. I would also like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the senator's question about the costs... The cost of implementing this directive in the form of a law for a period of 10 years is estimated at PLN 6 million 250 thousand. This is about the cost for the Polish state. To conclude my speech, I would like to thank all the senators who worked on this law during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, because this work was extremely substantive and led us to various common interesting conclusions, for example in the form of one of the amendments that we all agreed on here, as government and senators working in this committee. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u304	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, thank you for your reply to the attorney. I'd like to clarify it a little more. So this is the clerk from the appointment, right? It's not like it's a separate office that has some kind of pragmatism and rules, it's just a person who performs certain tasks within his employment, with the title of proxy. That's right. Good. That's my next question: what's going to change when it comes to, for example. Digitization of collections in state archives and museums? Because you mentioned these costs of PLN 6 million 200 thousand, but a significant part of these costs probably I suppose so, and if I'm wrong, explain it to me. It will be borne by specific institutions, which will be, as it were, obliged to carry out the digitisation process. And that's where I'm interested in cultural institutions and archival institutions. Because this process is already ongoing, but not all one-to-one harvests are currently present online and generally available. How will this law deal with this problem in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u305	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, from my knowledge of the bill, it is clear that here we will absolutely not impose additional financial costs on those units mentioned by the senator, i.e. from this bill it will not be apparent that e.g. have an obligation to carry out digitalisation at their own expense. I'll be sure of that question, Mr. Senator, and we'll answer you in writing so that there's no doubt here, also for individuals who may be listening to our conversation. But when it comes to digitalization itself, for example. cultural collections, well here also in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister is conducted a separate project called KRONIK@, which will also, in cooperation with many cultural institutions, lead to digitisation and to the provision of digitised resources of these units, which will be sort of combined in one place. So that's the kind of repository we're building, we've got a separate budget here. But yet, Senator, to make things perfectly clear, we'll clarify it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, two questions. First, it's like a follow-up question. Well, I'm more concerned with library resources. This should be the main role of the National Library. Because why scan the same books several times? Unless they're unique. Or the same magazines, archival copies, if you could use these scans, e.g. Replace? And someone should, first of all, coordinate it, and second of all, have the working powers to, well, first of all, deal with unique copies. I'm sure these copies have the National Library. It's clear. When we experience such a moment that any book published in Polish, any magazine, a copy of the archive journal, can be viewed on the Internet? It doesn't matter where it's gonna be placed, what server it's gonna be on, what address it's gonna be on. When from the farthest part of Poland Because the internet will eventually be all over Poland, the broadband will be able to access not only cultural goods, but at all the resources, intellectual resources of the state? And the second point, which I think is more difficult, which is the second question. I'm clearly separating them. Namely, the question of maps. I would like to live to see the moment so that we have maps much more accurate than Google Maps. This is a private company, a large but private company, and an alien on our territory. Including everything: 3D views, etc. In order to do this, of course, you have to have the right resources, the right funds. And the question as to how to sum up these two examples: is this law related to such problems, to the expectations that I have made here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u309	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u310	Senator, in brief, this submission does not directly concern the issues that you are talking about. However, also in this project, which I told Senator Jackowski about, Kronik@ project, which we are conducting within the framework of KPRM... This is not a one-time project and in this area we also cooperate with the National Library. At the moment when, at the latest, I hope that at the end of this year and the next, we will put into service the portal Kronik@, which will contain such a repository of various types of data and, of course, digitized cultural goods... Later they will be able to join further harvests from all over the country and institutions will be able to make their legacy available to citizens in general, of course free of charge. As far as the second question is concerned, this issue goes completely beyond this submission. It seems to me that I find it difficult to answer whether we will be able to build the tools that we have today. Google. Well, that's a little different in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u311	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u312	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, thank you very much for the answer in principle to both questions, because you also said about the positives of this directive in your speech. I would also like to ask what it is like for other Member States of the European Union to implement this directive. Because we had time in principle until July, but we know that this directive was adopted late and therefore the deadline for implementation was delayed. What does it look like in other Member States of the European Union? If, of course, the Minister has that knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u313	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, as far as specific dates are concerned, I would really not be able to tell you today exactly what the dates for adopting this implementation were in all the European Union countries. I can only say from the perspective of the practice of cooperation with the European Union that this directive has been adopted, as a law, by the Council of Ministers before July 2021, and is recognised by the EU body that then de facto this implementation takes place. The fact that we are debating it in August is absolutely not treated by Brussels as a delay in the implementation of this directive. Well, it's so natural, there's absolutely no long delay here. But if the senator is interested in what it looks like in other countries, then of course we will prepare such information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u315	If you don't mind me asking, Mrs. Marshal... I meant not so much the dates, but the solutions, whether they were similar, such as ours, or solutions in other countries of the European Union, were different from ours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u316	In Poland, these solutions, Mr Senator, are even wider, i.e. We're going a little further than the directive, but we're going to do some research to answer that question, Mr. Senator. I think the results will be interesting for many people in the country, so that we may even make them public. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u317	Thank you, Minister. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u318	Minister, there were questions or suggestions regarding access to data, increasing access to maps, books, libraries. Of course, I know the bill and I support it as much as possible, because it is absolutely right to move towards more and more access to information. But in the context of these previous questions, what about copyright? 'Cause everyone wants to have as much access to resources as possible. As far as these public, public resources are concerned, of course they are. But if it were to be even wider, and there were passwords here, for example. access to library collections, what about copyright? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u319	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u320	Mr. Senator, the fact is that when it comes to accessing public data, it is quite clear. As regards the possibility for private parties to share data, e.g. in the data portal. gov.pl, this is absolute freedom here, that is to say, the entity that has copyright and this is its data, it can handle them commercially as much as possible, and here is absolutely the issue of free will, whether it will make this data available. And as far as the width of the access range is concerned, and how exactly this should look in the context of copyright, then, Mr Senator, we will undoubtedly have a discussion on this subject. We have already had such a discussion in the Senate about how far these changes in data opening should go. I think we're ready to meet with the Digital Commission as much as possible, and perhaps to connect it to the Senate Commission to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u321	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u322	In fact, I would like to ask a question similar to that of Senator Tyszkiewicz. Namely, it is not that any library position can be put into circulation online, due to copyright protection, which is extended practically to 70 years. And that's why not every position, e.g. from contemporary literature or scientific literature, which is protected by copyright... No, if an appropriate contract is signed, such a position may only be entered under the appropriate conditions. There are examples that such positions are entered into the public domain, but this is not from the machine, i.e., in other words, you cannot digitize everything in turn as you wish, only this must be done according to certain rules. And that is why I am going to extend this question to the Minister: is the government planning any movement in the scope of the widely understood copyright in connection with the development of new technologies in this area to increase the availability of these materials? Are there any discussions on this subject that would open up opportunities to increase the availability of copyrighted materials, through the network, in the public domain? These are also musical songs, these are video materials, this is... Well, in fact, every area is protected by copyright in some way, so that's a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u323	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u324	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, there is currently no discussion in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, at least in this area we are dealing with, on how to raise copyright issues. It seems to be an extremely sensitive issue to find a balance between the public good and the real protection of the copyright of a person who has worked out the good and has the right to decide as freely as possible whether he wants it. immediately publish and cede copyright e.g. for the library and generally for society, or e.g. He wants those rights commercially. Yeah, well, it seems like we'd probably have to get involved here, too. Ministry of Culture to talk freely in this area. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u325	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u326	Minister, these are two different issues. One is a matter of technology and, I would call it, entering data online, e.g. in the case of maps or data that are not yet digital, and the second is a more general issue, e.g. Polish language. If we have certain resources that are common and national resources and are not protected by copyright... If we don't want to buy them out, we don't want to buy them out. It's in quotes, but, of course, it's a fair buyout. So that they are in the public domain, they will not be in the world. And then we'll have problems. For example, ladies and gentlemen, we are a long analogy, but it is a signatory of the European Charter of Regional or Minor Languages, but the Polish language it can also become a minority language if it is not exposed on a global scale. This group of people who speak Polish I'm not talking about that for most people it's the language of the heart, but I'm talking about those who speak Polish. They know it. It should be as large as possible, we should display this language, because then we will have problems, as it was. with postal addresses in which there can be no Polish diacritic characters. There are possible different kinds of problems here, if we don't anticipate it, and above all if we don't start to act expansively. I know it may seem remote because we need to build roads, then we need to build broadband internet, and at the very end we might be able to take care of I don't know what you'd call spreading our national heritage around the world... But it's just that we have to do it at the same time. Minister, do you do this in the department? This bill is definitely important and we'll probably all be behind it, there's no problem with it, except it's just a tool. We need to have, first, a purpose, and secondly, procedures that will allow us to, for example, be able to do so. buy, in quotes, some works for the public domain and send them into the world.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u327	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u328	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I listened very carefully to the senator's opinion. I accept her, and I think the senators do, too. Well, these issues are completely out of the area we're debating here today. I also would not like to enter into the competence of other resorts, among others. the Ministry of Culture. And here I'd let you finish your thought, Mr. Senator. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u329	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal to Senator Jan Hamerski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Dear Mr Marshal, no, thank you very much.]] Thank you. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this hearing will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema. The text of the Act is contained in print No 472, and the report of the Commission In print No 472 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, who is already on the floor, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I am honored to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media of 23 August on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema. After considering the bill at its meeting on 3 August, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. I'll explain briefly. The aim of the Act is to implement a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union amending the 2010 Directive on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services. The bill is quite large and carefully prepared. The draft law passed through the Sejm, where it gained a 434-person positive assessment, with 7 votes against, while 1 abstention. The Commission has tabled 5 amendments. These amendments cause... In fact, these are little things when it comes to the very course of the bill. Amendment 1 makes the provision of the President of the Republic confirming the expiry of the term of office of the National Council of Radiophony and Television a justification. The second amendment deletes a provision that allows the transmission of sports competitions to be interrupted in order to give a single advertisement. The third amendment deletes the provision that allows the children's film to be interrupted for advertising. Amendment 4 prohibits children's programmes from being sponsored. Amendment 5 complements the provision on the need to give prior notice to the person making the declaration of criminal liability for lodging a false certificate. These amendments were voted on and a positive decision was taken unanimously. On behalf of the committee, please adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u331	Thank you very much. And now the senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I only have one question. Several amendments were tabled in the Seym. I would like to ask if your committee was leaning down, whether it even considered removing the rule that allows the children's film to be interrupted if it lasted more than an hour. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u333	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u334	Senator, this is the basic amendment tabled by our president, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. This is about the fact that we would like children's films lasting more than an hour not to be interrupted by advertising. It's very well-founded, I could quote that justification, it's about the child's psyche and all sorts of other things. That is why we are making this amendment. Of course, this amendment was also dealt with by various voices expressing doubts, but our committee did not... We've made a decision to introduce this amendment into the bill. [[Thank you very much. I think it's very...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u335	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u336	Thank you very much. Just one question... Mr. Senator read these amendments so quickly. I, of course, took part in a committee meeting, so I have knowledge. That maybe the senator would tell us what the case was about these sports broadcasts, because there was a lot of discussion about it too. They were, among others, doubts that e.g. when the goal is repeated, advertising may appear, and then the viewers will be lost. The contrast was that license rights for sports programs are extremely expensive and since the sender will not be able to commercially finance it through advertising, it may be a problem. So maybe you could remind the senator what the final position of the committee on this matter is. Are there gonna be these breaks, or are they gonna be gone? Because it was read so quickly that maybe not everyone has the knowledge about it. [[I'm so sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u337	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u338	I'm so sorry. I'm in no hurry. [[You can remind me.]] This is an amendment tabled by a representative of Poland 2050, Senator Jack Bury. For me, she's pretty controversial, too, because there might be a situation that you're talking about. We accepted this amendment, it's true, but I suspect that this is what the representatives of these entrepreneurs or those companies that sponsor sports are going to be going to say, if we can't have our commercial on TV, then we're leaving. That's what we talked about. I talked to the Ministry's representatives. Here's what I'm gonna say. In tennis, which is closest to me, or in boxing this case is simple, because there are minute breaks between boxing rounds or between two games or an odd game in tennis and it goes away. These amendments were adopted unanimously and the Senate will vote on how they will be dealt with later. [[Voice from the hall: And the Sejm.]] [[Later the Seym, yes, Mr. Marshal.]] And then the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u339	I have a question. Is the same argument that argued that you should not go away from interrupting movies for children with advertising... Did the same argument apply to the interruption of advertising of children's films? Was it said that when there are no commercials, the sender will not broadcast these films because he will not have any extra profits? Wasn't that also an argument?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u340	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Of course we talked about it. Here the problem is not even so much in the sender, but in the producer of children's films. Because if someone is a sponsor of a film for children, they assume, together with the distributor, that, however, the film that will then be shown on TV will also wear, well, all those related to the sponsor of media. I'm gonna say this: it's justified, however, that if... that's the justification... It convinces me that at some point a child might fall into some strange duality, if suddenly during a movie he gets into. In particular, a young child All of a sudden, there's an ad coming in out of the blue. However, it may cause some anxiety in the child's psyche. It's in a detailed explanation. I can read it, of course. But, well, on that... I know that... maybe it'll be questions for the minister or your director because they argued it during our committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u341	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u342	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In the context of the previous question... In the explanatory memorandum, we have the information that the proposed regulation on quantitative advertising limits implies balancing the interests of broadcasters and recipients of television programmes. I would like to ask what these limits are and whether this was mentioned at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u343	That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. I don't know what those limits are. Mr. Senator, if you'd be kind enough to ask the director, I'm sure he'll answer that question in detail. The law is, as you know, very large and the law is properly respected by the entire European Union. We implement it after a few years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u344	There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Did... Who's the representative? [[Voice from the room: Minister Anna Krupka.]] Would Minister Anna Krupka like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports Anna Krupka: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! High Commission! Maybe I'll take it back. 'Cause I think that's the most important thing. The amendments which have been presented here by the rapporteur and the senators. As regards the first amendment on the possibility of interrupting children's films for advertising, we do not think that it should be taken into account because the directive allows for interruption of any children's programmes for more than 30 minutes. The Act allows only films of more than 60 minutes to be interrupted. The provision introduced will in fact allow the advertising of family films which are currently in doubt about legal qualifications to be interrupted. In the 23 countries of the European Union, the principle that children's programmes may be interrupted for more than 30 minutes applies directly from the Directive. It is noted that, due to the more liberal regulation of the media market, broadcasters directing their offer to Polish audiences establish their headquarters especially in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands, where there are lighter rules on advertising. Polish broadcasters are therefore placed in a worse competitive position compared to competition from other Member States. The prohibition to interrupt children's films for advertising may lead to a reduction in the offer for children or a family offer in free terrestrial television programmes. Such an offer may continue to be transferred to only paid cable and satellite television. If we are talking about amendment 2 on advertising spots in sports broadcasts, I would say that, in our opinion, the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports should also not be taken into account. Designed art. 16a. 2a takes into account the provisions of the Directive, as well as the proposals made by the market and the National Radio and Television Council in the course of the public consultation. The purpose of the regulation is to enable broadcasters to finance expensive sports broadcasting rights and to balance the competitive conditions of Polish broadcasters vis-à-vis foreign competition. The regulations contained in the draft have been in force for years in 23 European Union countries. The purpose of this provision is to allow broadcasters to place individual advertising spots, e.g. in a natural break during a ski jumping competition caused by bad weather or in several hours of cycling trips. Transmitters are introducing several-second breaks so that the sender can put in advertising at that time. Furthermore, thanks to the introduced regulation, it will be possible to broadcast an advertising spot during a sports broadcast on a part of the screen. Amendment 3 introducing a ban on children's programmes should not, in our view, be taken into account. The current Radio and TV Act does not prohibit the sponsorship of children's programmes. The proposed amendment would therefore contribute to tightening the regulation on sponsorship opportunities. No EU country has introduced regulation prohibiting children's programmes from being sponsored. The broadcasters subject to Polish jurisdiction, as opposed to broadcasters of programmes headed in the territory of the Republic of Poland from other Member States of the European Union, could not obtain the proceeds from sponsorship. The introduction of a child sponsorship ban will help reduce the revenue of broadcasters and simply reduce the programme offer for children. Amendment four, introducing an obligation to justify the order by the President of the Republic of Poland, should not be taken into account in our opinion. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not provide for an obligation to justify the President's provisions. It should be noted that the decision concerning the appeal of the members of the National Radio and Television Council is based on resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate which, after the entry into force of this law, will require justification. The order of the President of the Republic of Poland merely confirms the expiry of the term of office of the National Radio and Television Council on the basis of negative resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate. Therefore, the justification of the order of the President of the Republic of Poland is not required. Amendment 5 concerning the criminal liability clause for a false declaration should not be taken into account. After the entry into force of the Polish Film Institute Act, it will modify the models of statements used by paying agents to the Institute. New models will include criminal liability clauses and, in specific cases, when the entity does not sign such a clause, the Institute will call for the addition of a statement and will instruct on criminal liability for a false statement. The Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport recommends the adoption of a law without any amendments tabled during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on 3 August 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u346	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Mr. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, then Mr. Senator Alexander Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u347	When I was in the European Parliament, it took place ♪ I remember ♪ Discussions and analyses on this implementation, regulatory building and testing of applied practices in individual countries. And I have to say that I understand the opposition to an amendment that eliminates the possibility of sponsoring children's programmes, because it really reduces the potential offer that can occur in this market for educational portals etc. However, I do not fully understand the minister's position to be able to interrupt children's programmes, including educational programmes. And I remember exactly how it was recognised in the European Parliament that the words "permissible" meant that, in exceptional cases, in the case of exceptional solutions, this possibility would be used in the exceptional circumstances of certain broadcasters in individual countries. But we are a big country, we have the so-called. public television and I cannot imagine... I would like to hear from you the justification why the resort, which should protect our culture, educational processes, expresses a positive opinion about the possibility of interrupting programs for children, various programs, in short, advertising.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u348	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u349	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Minister, This regulation applies to children's films. Only children's movies will be interrupted. You can't interrupt educational broadcasts. In addition, public television will not interrupt any broadcasts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u350	There you go, Senator Zdrojewski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u351	I'll just add it and fill it in. Well, there are films that are educational in nature, meaning they are produced special films with educational functions in mind. And it is very difficult for children of 3-, 4-, 5- or 6-year-olds to distinguish between films that are only entertaining, from those that are supposed to build their imagination, sensitivity, knowledge about the world, geography, animals, etc., etc. In my opinion, films for the youngest children are very often educational. I'm looking for a reason for the ministry's position and, in short, I can't find it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u352	Thank you. If you'd like to comment, I'd like to ask you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The films that will be interrupted are generally longer than 60 minutes, and the films that the Minister referred to as educational films for children are usually shorter than 60 minutes. And they won't be interrupted. This provision only applies to longer, family movies.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u354	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u355	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you what I have already asked the Senator rapporteur. The explanatory memorandum to this regulation refers to balancing the interests of broadcasters and recipients of television programmes as regards advertising limits. I would like to ask what these limits are to look like according to this regulation. Well, that's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u356	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! The law does not implement all the provisions of the Directive, leaves limits on advertising breaks. And here when it comes to movies, you can interrupt them once every 45 minutes, and when it comes to TV shows. Once every 20 minutes. The Directive does not contain such limits. More stringent regulations are proposed in the field of films for children. The directive allows you to interrupt the broadcasts longer than 30 minutes, the act only movies longer than 60 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u358	Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u359	Maybe I'll ask a naive question, Minister. Because logic indicates that children's movies are being watched by children. That's where you agree. Good. Now my question is, why even advertise for children? It's not like the kids are buying. It's the parents who buy it. And now all of a sudden you're advertising for kids. What's advertising in there? It's not like washing machines and fridges, it's like dolls, toys, stuff like that. And the child then jerks the parent and demands purchase. Well, what's that for? Why do you even want to do kids' ads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u360	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! It's not strictly about films for children, it's about family movies, family movies, longer family movies and advertising that are then broadcast, which are interrupted by these longer movies. These are ads for everyone, because such family movies are watched by both children and parents. Such advertisements are already available in foreign programs addressed to Poland, programs that are simply available in our cable networks, in Polish cable networks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u362	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One... [[Voice from the room: What about the Minister?]] Minister! Of course, above all, Minister. One of the provisions of this novel is to set a 30% threshold for catalog content... It's about European broadcasts. Is this also about TV shows... Is this 30%? European broadcasts this is with Polish programmes, or without Polish programmes, i.e. only European programmes, without national programmes? Is the same percentage in the law today perhaps there is and does not need to change it and concerns the broadcast in Polish?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u364	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! This threshold arises from this EU directive, but only concerns VOD services. This applies to all production from the European Union, and now this threshold is 20%.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u366	If you don't mind... What about the threshold for production in Polish? Is there the same imposed restriction here, a condition?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u367	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u368	Poland, of course, is entering this amount...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u369	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u370	Because there are some strange interpretations, also, I think, from you, that, for example. There are no educational films lasting more than an hour or that children's films are family films... Where do you get that kind of knowledge? Could you give me the definitions on which this bill will be based? What are children's movies?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u371	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! Market analysis indicates that longer than 60 minutes are only family businesses. The Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports, the competent department, as well as Minister Jarosław Sellin, responsible for this law, were based on this type of market analysis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u373	Thank you. Senator Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u374	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you one more question, which is partly governed by this directive. I'm talking about protecting minors. Will there be any additional obligations for broadcasters, as far as I am concerned, I do not know, e.g. to designate programmes that are not intended for minors? Will the broadcasters have any additional obligations under this proposed regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u375	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! That'll be, for example. Identification of types of content, e.g. information on violence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u377	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Anna Krupka: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u378	À by way of a proposal I would like to say that no parent would want the whole family to watch Shreka, watch ads for adults or children at a time like this. There's no reason to interrupt. That is why I am explaining why I tabled this amendment on children. But I don't think so when it comes to sports programs. Our colleague, Senator Bure, is not here, who has tabled this amendment. Well, I think that most sports competitions are organized in such a way that there are some natural breaks and in these natural breaks there is a transition to the studio, commentators tell what we saw, or there are repeated shots of goals, there are comments. So the introduction of advertising at this point in time is not going to change much about the comfort of a viewer who watches sports broadcasts. I would like to tell you, in the interest of the senators' knowledge, that today, to my committee, to the Committee on Culture and Media, the letter of the Association of Private Media Employers (Leviatan) was received under the emblem of Leviathan. They appeal to us, to the Senate, to delete the amendments to advertising during children's programmes, as well as to interrupt sports broadcasts with single advertising. They want those bans to go away. They also talk about not banning child-sponsored programmes and interrupting long children's programmes for advertising. I'm talking about letting you know that the business community is protesting against it. I also have an obligation to draw attention to the fact that media companies, these broadcasters, whether it's Polsat, whether it's TVN, whether it's public television, everyone felt a very serious pandemic when it comes to advertising and so on. That's why there were demands from the economic community to make up for these losses, but I think At least that's what I personally think. That in the case of children we went far too far. I think we pride ourselves on having a good bill that regulates these issues when it comes to children, because they are, for example. subtitles indicating the age for which the programmes are allowed, etc., etc. And to be honest with you, as far as our club is concerned, we're gonna want to keep these kids safe from commercials. We are likely to be more liberal in sports competitions, because it is right that someone has already said here, perhaps the Minister, that sports broadcasts are extremely expensive, these charges etc., and it is very difficult for the media to compensate for the costs of acquiring broadcasting rights. We know very well that not all stations can afford it, and sometimes it appears in private channels, and then we have to pay for it so we can watch it, so we pay extra, we pay a lot more. And public television... as you know, I am not a fan of public television at the moment, but I realize that when it comes to purchasing the rights to these broadcasts, it is a huge cost. It's just an explanation for what it all looks like... Each senator will probably consider it in his own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u379	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that the debate, which has necessarily followed up in a series of questions, shows what the dilemmas are as regards all issues relating to audiovisual issues and the dissemination of sound and image. As far as the European Parliament directive is concerned, what needs to be commended is a test. increase the protection of minors from undesirable content that may occur in the audiovisual area. Many of the objectives that are set out in this directive are moving in this direction. And that, I think, is very positive. But there are specific issues. Well, I supported the amendment, which was about the ban on children's films, for a number of reasons. In my opinion, this is a very convenient pickup. Saying that you don't know what a childish movie is and what a family movie is and that you can't distinguish. And that's where Marshal Borowski got to the point. These ads aren't addressed to children, they're addressed to their parents. Mr. Marshal, I would have developed it even more: it could be cosmetic products, it could be pampers, some nutrients, because such advertisements usually accompany productions designed for children, especially for the smallest children. These may also be articles on the hygiene of a young child, but also on nutrition, including promotions of various articles that are not always desirable in the case of a young child from a health point of view. It is also a question of producing certain needs in a small viewer, which are not always in line with the wishes of the parents of the child. The child is thus subjected to some kind of socio-technical pressure. Advertising is some form of pressure. It's a form. Maybe not pressure, but socio-technical influence. Otherwise, she wouldn't have made sense. Because why would there be advertising that would be neutral from the point of view of persuasion? It wouldn't make any sense at all. There would not be billions of dollars spent on advertising on television, on the Internet and in other areas of this kind. And from this point of view, I think that children should be given special protection. This security detail, as we know, isn't that... Because children also have access to the Internet, they can also use content... We know about all these blockage sites, all of this. These are separate issues. Anyway, there's a problem, and that's why I think if there's a movie for kids, let the kid watch this movie in peace, let's not interrupt this movie with commercials. It is precisely because of the question of forming the personality of such a small child and creating certain habits, but still the relationship... If there's a fairy tale, let the child watch the fairy tale in its entirety, let it not be interrupted. Indeed, I have doubts about sports broadcasts, because in fact licenses are extremely expensive and those who know about this issue whether these issues are being investigated... We in the Committee on Culture and Media are dealing with these matters. It was actually a drama. Besides, we remember years when in Poland there was no access for fans of various sports fields to broadcast. People had to pay for coded channels if they wanted access to them and keep track of any games, cups or sports competitions. It's changing over there. There is public television, which has improved in this area. It's about accessibility. And I think the whole room will agree with me here that it's possible to watch these broadcasts free of charge, but they're very expensive. And there's Polsat, who also specialized. These are partly paid channels, they do not need to be paid for, but here we are dealing with some availability of these sports broadcasts, and this is an important area for those audiences, for those citizens who are passionate about sports. We know that during important games, games, etc. TV gathers audiences in millions of viewers. The High Izbo, as regards other amendments, is the rapporteur, Mr Fedorovich, who has already discussed them, so I will not elaborate on this subject in detail. I think we should just protect the kids. For their safety, let us adopt those solutions that will enable them to benefit from the valuable production of audiovisual production. Thank you. [[I'm gonna turn myself in. There's something I have to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u381	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u382	I'm the one who can do it right now. I will remind you that the Directive is from 2010, but it has been substantially amended in 2018. I have participated in this work, being a member of the European Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education, and I remember very well the intentions of those who presented this directive. I would like to refer to this, because this amendment, in order not to interrupt films for children, is in line with the spirit of the directive that was designed at that time. Yes, the situation in Europe was that in many countries Not mostly, but in many countries Many programs for children, including educational programs, were interrupted by advertising, advertising very often addressed to adults. Sometimes they were advertising for children, but they dominated advertising for adults, even though they were programs for children. It is right that Senator Marek Borowski asked why we should allow children to be recipients of advertising when they are not buyers of certain services. That's the key question. I asked you too. And it was a question to many producers who had their representatives there. Why programs are not implemented longer than... Then it was, as I recall, 55 minutes. And the answers were: because they can't be interrupted by ads. Therefore, they preferred to carry out shorter programs, educational programs, film programs etc., so that after them there would be advertising After them, not in the process, because it cannot be done. Let me remind you that the directive contains a very important incentive for national self-regulation in order to protect children, protect against hate speech, protect against intolerance, etc., etc. This directive is very rich in such wording. But its main objective was to build some flexibility towards advertisers, so that these rigid arrangements, these rigid frameworks, which were built about 20 years ago and are already, in short, inadequate to the situation, as well as to the size of European countries... Well, some are very large and de facto operate exclusively on the basis of their own production This is the case with France And some are very small and operate on the basis of American, own, French, British, etc., etc. The aim is to find common denominators and to bring about the adoption of such regulations that are, in short, applicable in all European countries. And that's what happened in this directive, in fact. But let me remind you that the most important element of this directive is the effective protection of children and minors, protection against hate speech. We wanted to lead to such a situation that, thanks to the flexibility of advertising blocks, they could be compounded, so that these advertisements would not be, in short, too much, that they would not be such very large blocks. This is also the case with a number of very important indications. Well, for example. advertising must not contain subliminal elements. Advertising which will appear after a children's programme or within those programmes and films lasting more than an hour shall not offer medical services which are paid for. So there's a lot of elements out there that if we take them seriously, They will effectively protect children. But I don't see that kind of intention right now. I believe that the directive is only being used to increase advertising time even using longer films, so-called. Family movies or children's movies. Let me add immediately that there is no definition of family films in the European Union. One more thing. It is very important that in those advertisements that appear in possible blocks addressed to children, do not use e.g. children's credulity. It is very important that those who are responsible for regulations are regulators, ensure that, in short, children are really protected and that children are not used for advertising for children and that children are not recipients of advertising generally, at all. I will immediately say that I have observed as Minister of Culture for some time the tasks associated with child protection regulations. I must admit that television in Poland, in general, has tried to protect children, that these self-limitations, including those on public television, have been mentioned several times as exemplary for other European countries, where such regulations were, in short, of little interest. I would prefer not to use the emerging pretext, which is almost the most important element of making advertising times more flexible, so that children are in the field of destruction of such or other advertisements in one way or another. Once again, I would like to urge that our good practices, developed over the past 20 and 30 years, not to spoil children and minors. And finally, I will refer to what Senator Jackowski was talking about, namely, that our television, in quotes, is not free of charge. That's where the giant money goes. And this television in the advertising market is an unevenly functioning entity, because it uses a subscription, with giant subsidies from the state budget and has the right to advertising. And all this money Zusammen puts together is used to have a highly privileged position in the sports broadcasting market. I hope that the effect of these regulations will not lead to a situation in which television, for which the State is responsible, will loosen its rigor even more, the rigor that I said could be complimented, and that its situation in the media market will not be even more unfavourable. I would also like to refer to the sentence that was uttered by Marshal Terletki: a little TV show. I would like this big TV to have the credibility and ratings of the news programs like this little TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u383	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator George Fedorowicz. [[Oh, Jesus, I don't have a I.D. Shortly, Mr. Marshal...]] But what kind of ID do you want?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u384	My microphone's not gonna work. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I'm gonna cut it short. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no political division in this matter as regards children and advertising. It's out of the question, isn't it? I'm just saying one thing. I'm saying this as a producer, and I'd like to see some specific public television on the part of the ministry as well. As a producer and creator of performances for children, I must say that those who paid helped me create this, demanded certain advertising benefits in every situation. In this situation, remembering that it is absolutely beyond divisions, because we are talking about children, we need to remember not to fire the baby with a bath. I am voting in favour of this amendment, of course, because this is our amendment, and I just want to... There may still be an answer from the Minister. I can't imagine that there's any movie for kids on public television that can be used for advertising, because that's why we have public television. The regulation of private television stations is contained in the directive that we are implementing. Like Minister Zdrojewski said, we're here to keep an eye on it. Only a clear declaration would have to be made. If the marshal asks you to. The government's going to have all that information. 'Cause if you do. We are being listened to by business representatives at the moment, and they should have known that we did not want to wage war with them, but we are in the free market. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u385	Thank you. Does the Minister still want to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports Anna Krupka: If I could take the floor, Mr Marshal, I would be grateful.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u386	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At the beginning, I will answer the question of the question raised by the Senator rapporteur. Dear Senators, let's get the facts straight. No movie on public television can be interrupted by advertising. No. These amendments, which are also included in this directive, adopted in this law, are in fact relevant to commercial television. The Senator rapporteur asked for this assurance, so this is our summary. As regards the question whether or not the opinion of Senator Jackowski, who feared that family movies or children's movies or programmes for children would be interrupted by advertisements that promote unhealthy food, that is, those nutrients that you were talking about... Well, that's not an option. This is not a substantive question at all, because there can be no advertising of unhealthy food in the area of the children's programme, in the area of the film for children, in the area of the family film. Today, this is the Polish law and it is absolutely unchanged. As regards the questions of the senator, Minister Zdrojewski, I would like to say: all the regulations concerning quality conditions in the case of advertising, as if to specify how these advertisements should be displayed, e.g. concerning subliminal communications, they are already in force in the Act and nothing is changing. Nothing changes. The Act does not refer to the quality rules concerning advertising, including those referred to by Minister Zdrojewski, but only loosens quantitative limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u388	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been tabled... No, it wasn't. I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of the name of Witold Pilecki and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 455, and the committee report In print No 455 A... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, folks, the discussion has already been closed, and yet it turns out that the previous item on the agenda has been addressed to the minutes. Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Mariusz Gromko put them together. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude of Witold Pilecki and some other laws. The Commission met twice: 20 July and 3 August. During the discussion on 20 July, many questions and requests for additional explanations from the Ministry and our Legislative Office were submitted. These additional explanations were to varying degrees satisfactory, but the discussion was quite long and I believe that it covered all important aspects. I would like to say that the vote on the motion to reject this law gave the ratio of 3:2, 3 senators was against it, 2 senators were against it. What was the discussion about? Controversy aroused a rule, which is basically the clou of this amendment of the law, i.e. enable the institute to appoint companies abroad which would be companies, i.e. the activities of the institute through commercial law companies, commercial law companies. According to preliminary information, this was supposed to be about the United States. The justification was that this type of operation was necessary because of local law, but it turned out that there were also the same intentions for Israel. This has led to controversy, the creation by the institute, the possibility for the institute of commercial law companies to create on the basis of local law, i.e. law in the United States. The questions concerned whether these commercial law companies equipped financially from the state budget, but also equipped with assets purchased from the state budget in the situation, suppose, the dissolution of this company, the cessation of operations... Is it possible, or will it be possible to withdraw this property? Well, it was supposed to cost 20 million to equip these companies with commercial law in these two places. It was supposed to be jobs, apartments. While the branches that have the institute, the branches of the institute did not cause controversy and the activities of the institute did not cause controversy, the controversy raised the proposal contained in this law so that the institute could establish commercial law companies. There was a question of control over these companies, but also about the possibility of withdrawing the assets. These companies were to be endowed with assets for state resources, as well as from European funds and other sources, but above all the state budget was to equip them. The Minister sent additional explanations in which she said that there could be such a form of activity, a company of commercial law, but there could also be a form of nonprofit corporation, a form based on American law. We asked questions, I asked questions: what does that mean? But anyway... No, the law includes the possibility of setting up a commercial law company, not not for profit corporation. I'll say I didn't get a satisfactory answer, I didn't get one. Therefore, there was a request for rejection of this law and this request was put to the vote. In the statement of reasons, a representative of the Ministry, the Minister, referred to the fact that such a form had already been applied to another entity, the Polish Institute of International Affairs. This form was already adopted in the vote and concerned a certain entity in the United States established by the Polish Institute of International Affairs. This Polish institute was established in 2020 by the Prime Minister but did not start its activities. So it's hard to judge how it works, because it doesn't actually work. And the Public Finance Act for some time banned the foundation from being set up by the State Treasury, that is, art. 45. So that the nonprofit activity, which, according to the explanation, is of the nature of the operation somewhere between the company of commercial law and the foundation, which is characteristic of the United States, is not known to us. I don't think the bill is quite clear. And if this was supposed to be a foundation, then I notice that there's a ban in the Public Finance Act. the appointment of a foundation and such activities. He was repealed by the Polish Institute of International Affairs Incidental Act, but I believe that the solutions of the Incidental Laws cannot be repeated. If we want such entities to function, the article must be repealed. 45 Public Finance Act. You can't rely on precedent every once in a while to take the next step. Oh, there's one more thing. Well, we observe the foreign doughnuting of various public, ministerial institutions. When foreign policy is directed and organised by the Foreign Minister, these are further elements... Resorts want their embassies, foreign offices. There are 25 cultural institutes that are under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The staff of these institutions have diplomatic passports and therefore have other opportunities to reach the local authorities. If we are dissatisfied with their activity, then we should talk about it, we should encourage them to act. And these institutions in Poland are still specialized, even in historical politics, because it is not only the Pilecki Institute that specializes, but also the IPN. They should, through actions, suggest what can be earned, support actions. But these activities should be coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Such a spread of foreign policy is not good, and I also draw attention to it. So, in conclusion, I'm making a motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u391	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to address the rapporteur's marshal. Do you, as a historian, as a witness to important events, but also as a historian by education, believe that Poland's historical narrative concerning 2 terrible totalitarianisms that affected Poland in a special way does not require instruments of influence on the international arena? Because as far as internal debate is concerned, there is much more knowledge about this experience than the knowledge of our environment and international opinion. All the more so because, as we know, there are various false statements concerning Poland or Polish history in this area. Don't you think that you need institutions that have real instruments to conduct such discourse on the international stage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u392	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u393	Yes, I believe that, like you, Senator, I agree with you. But it has to be coordinated, it has to be done under foreign policy, it has to be coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's the first line. And two. I don't think that can be done by companies governed by commercial law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u394	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u395	But as I recall, at the committee meeting it was explained why it was proposed in this way. The idea was that it would be possible to act in accordance with local law in places outside Poland where these institutions would operate. So I don't think it's just an invention, because someone invented it that way, but it's because the tool is effective, not inefficient. So that I believe that a pragmatic solution has been adopted in this regard. Thank you... Are you a marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u396	Not pragmatic, just novel, I'd like to say. [[Excuse me?]] Innovative, yes, innovative. Mr. Senator, we have a Polish National Foundation to handle this matter. A lot of money went for it, and it didn't work out much. This object of action somehow vanished, and the responsibility also vanished. The commercial law company is a separate entity, such a company cannot be ordered to do anything. And I'm afraid that you can't withdraw from a company like this if necessary, in case of any problems with funds and money, because it's a separate entity, and it's still operating under American law. I think that there are rules of independence of companies much more strongly treated than here, where there are of course representatives of your party in companies, and the minister can, suppose, press them, expect something from them, and if not, cancel them. In Poland you can, and in the United States, in my opinion, you can't. Besides, I tried to get accurate information on how such commercial law companies operate in the United States and whether the danger I saw was real. There wasn't enough information, enough information, there was some general information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u397	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u398	I just wish there wasn't an impression... I, Mr. Marshal, am not a member of any political party. Because you've noticed your party. It's a literal quote. I'm a member. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, but I'm a person... [[So I'm saying with the club...]] That's more specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u399	The club is a party, and you're connected to it. Because, after all, you're tied up at the PiS club, Mr. Senator. And that's clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u400	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u401	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you... Because, in fact, when you presented the report on the committee meeting, you expressed your opinion more on this amendment. I would like to ask what arguments were put forward for this initiative at the committee meeting. That's the first question. And then there's the second question. I understand that the doubts regarding this initiative concerned the appointment of companies by the Institute in the form of capital. This concerns, among others, the following: Article 2 4c. Then why is it that, if the state does not deny the idea that the institute should have its offices abroad, there was no attempt to delete this article instead of rejecting the entire amendment? [[But which article?]] The one who's talking about calling... [[Squad.]] Companies in capital form, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u402	Squad. Those troops are here and they're functioning. And there were no objections. And there were serious objections to this form of commercial law company, and it decided that there was a motion for rejection. But you asked me what the arguments were for. There was one for him. That this will improve the operation in the United States. That was the argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u403	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House, Minister Magdalena Gawin. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: Mrs. Marshal, may I come from the spot?]] I mean, Minister, it's gonna be awkward if the senators want to ask questions because they're gonna have to turn around. So that if the Minister could come forward... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: Well, of course. Then I'll take the materials and move.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank all the senators for their comments, for the discussion, for the interest you have shown in amending the Pilecki Institute Act. I just remind you that the institute has been operating for 4 years and it is not only in Warsaw, because we have established a branch in Berlin, which has proved to be a very big success. I am very proud that we are the first institution to digitize the German archives and transport them to Poland in full. And from now on, Polish researchers will be able to use a huge source of sources and describe the German occupation, which has not yet been properly described. I mean, it happened that actually German historians dealing with the period of World War II wrote more so that I would say much better analyses, with such a more interesting look at the period of German occupation than in Poland. And it's actually disturbing. Therefore, I believe that the activities of the Pilecki Institute in Berlin will contribute to the revival of interest in the period of World War II. In corrigendum mode... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz mentioned that the troops are already operational. So I will remind you once again: there is a headquarters in Warsaw and a branch in Berlin, which is located in the European Union, there is no branch outside the Union, there are no branches in the United States. We're doing this amendment to make him rise. Now, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we review the article. 4c: The Institute may establish, with the agreement of the Minister at the request of the Director of the Institute, subsidiaries in legal and organisational form depending on their place of establishment, including in the form of a capital company, after informing the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. This is actually a recipe precisely prescribed by the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. Mr. Marshal called this bill an incident bill. This is probably a good term, because it shows how much Poland cared about its own history outside the country. Yeah, that's what PISM did that first breach and set up its branch outside the European Union. Everything we do is basically a march. We are going on short trips to France, England, Germany, and this narrative is not going to change. So I repeat that this is indeed a provision that has been prescribed by the Law on PISM. If in the case of PISM it did not raise such controversy, it is difficult for me to understand why suddenly here, in this case, there is a wave of suspicion. Well, let's try to analyze this recipe carefully. Well, here's the wording that says that subsidiaries in legal and organisational form depend on where they are created... I would like to ask all your senators to understand. Our legal system Whether it's Polish or even European It does not conform to the United States system, which is governed by state law, local law. In addition, we also have plans to set up such an institute in Tel Aviv. There, too, we are dealing with a completely different legal system. This recipe is safe. If we encountered legal problems in the creation of such a branch, we would have to go back to Warsaw and process the amendment throughout the next year. That's what's keeping us safe. If Members and Senators have allowed such a provision in one law, I really do not see any reason not to allow it in the second law. I'd say I don't understand the suspicions, the logic of suspicions or the philosophy of suspicion that suddenly arose here. The Pilecki Institute works and is completely transparent, open. Every year we report, and all our activities, exhibitions, initiatives and research have really met with a very broad acceptance both in Poland and outside. I would just like to remind you that 389 Members voted in favour of this amendment for 439 Members in the Sejm. For me it was, I would say, a great honour, because not only Members associated with the Law and Justice, but also Members of the opposition, who understood the situation of Poland, voted in favour. So I think this Berlin ward... I have already proven that we can promote Poland's history in an effective and effective manner. The articles in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, in the "Der Spiegel" in the best German press, show that we can do this. I would simply very much ask your senators to trust me, to visit the institute. We can provide all possible materials and books, whatever you want. I'd be delighted if Senator and Gentlemen would visit a branch in Berlin someday. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u405	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Minister, there will be questions. Stay on the stand. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska volunteered first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u406	No one here in this room has any doubt that rtm. Pilecki was a hero. I think it's a good thing that there are institutions that bear his name, but I would prefer that those who deal with the Pilecki Institute should know that the Krzyżowa Foundation or the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation are not German, but Polish-German organizations that serve reconciliation. Yeah, I wish it was. They also operate on the basis of Polish law, Minister. My question concerns 2 issues. As we know, rtm. Pilecki was an anti-fascist. I would like to ask if the Pilecki Institute, which you are caring for as Deputy Minister, expressed any resentment at the fact that the Minister of Culture granted PLN 3 million from the government's Patriotic Fund of National Organizations from Mr Bąkiewicz, which are considered neofascist organizations, and in any case cultivating certain fascist values. How do you do, Minister, do rtm. Pilecki and the fact that the state, as you think and speak, honors memory... Maybe before we fight what is happening abroad, we will try to fight the browning of Poland. Maybe that's what the ministry would take care of. And the other thing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And the other thing... [[This is an outrage!]] Good. Scandal. Let me finish. [[Voice from the room: The Senate scandal.]] The second question is the following. On TVP Info a certain professor Wiesław Wysocki refused the Polish gene to the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk. And we read that this Mr. Wysocki was appointed by Mr. Gliński to chair the foundation, the rtm house. Pilecki in Ostrów Mazowiecka... Could you explain if this is some person appointed by your minister... How does that apply to the museum rtm? Pilecki in Ostr? Is that the same thing? Is this some completely different organization that has nothing to do with the ministry? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u407	You're welcome, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u408	I ask you, Mr. Marshal, first of all, not to allow such speeches, not entirely connected with the matter of the bill that we are discussing at the moment. Secondly, Marshal Grodzki here assured the chairman of the Senate that the questions would last no more than 1 minute. There is a time for this in the course of discussion and debate, and probably these emergents can be presented there. And besides, you have a marshal's ability to do that, so I'm asking your marshal to waive these questions, to remove them from the minutes of today's sitting, because they have nothing to do with the matter of the bill. [[In what mode is this even a statement?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u409	I won't agree to that conclusion. I ask you to maintain a certain seriousness, proportion and indeed ask questions directly related to the bill. The Minister decides how to answer questions. I think he'll be fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u410	Thank you so much for these questions. First of all, it's a figure of rtm. Pilecki's for everyone. It's for the left, for the right and for the center. I think it's pretty obvious. And if we're also talking about him sometimes, that he's a Cursed Soldier, then I'd like to remind you why we're using that term. Not because Pilecki fought in the woods, not because he died an active soldier under independence. We use the term he's cursed because he's cursed from memory. And that's the truth. It was impossible to talk about Witold Pilecki until 1989. His form was completely withdrawn from such a national circulation, not to mention the international one. Therefore, I would like to thank everyone very much for having the great honour of participating in the popularization of the name of one of the bravest people in general of the anti-fascist and anti-Nazi movement in occupied Europe. It is a great honor. And I feel this duty on me, too. I am glad that there is an institution that works not for the left, not for the right, but for the whole. I'm glad she found so much support in the Seym. It's not that common today. Senator Zdrojewska asked me another question about Professor Wysocki. I want to remind you... I am also the initiator of this small museum in Ostrów Mazowiecka. It is the family home of Maria Pilecka. And I would like to say that Professor Wysocki was the first historian to reach the archive materials, that was a dozen files at the time, in the early 1990s. He was the first to discover Pilecki's story in the file. I'm sure he's a well-deserved character and a very good historian. It seems to me that all scientists, including historians, are involved in public life. Minister Zdrojewski is also a historian, as I recall... [[Voice from the room: No, it is not.]] ...from education... But a humanist? Or not? Or a lawyer? Humanist? Well, that's it. It seems to me that we cannot exclude humanists from public life and from the formulation of opinions that are sometimes simply very harsh. But also, honestly, I do not see the connection between these efforts to popularize the history of Poland outside the borders of the European Union... These are complementary measures. We've been promoting a lot. And we should do it. Polish art, theatre and film are where we have very big achievements. We're still doing it, and we're gonna do it. But we should also attach an inheritance to this cultural component. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u411	Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... [[I'm sorry, but you haven't answered my question about the grant to Mr. Bąkiewicz's association. Has the institute protested on this matter?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u412	I, Mrs. Senator, may I just say that the Pilecki Institute is running some kind of grant contest for NGOs and organizations. You should go to the institution that gave these grants. I think the organizer of this institution will answer that question for sure. Once again, I stress that the Pilecki Institute is a research institute, it deals with archival activities, exhibition activities and cooperation with numerous institutions. Using this place, I'd like to invite all the senators to an extraordinary exhibition. On Friday at 6:00 p.m., from the never-published photos of Hans Reinhardt's trial and all the material that was collected in the 1960s. In these pictures. you can see Warsaw from the 1960s and all preparation for the Reinhardt trial. These materials will be shown in Poland for the first time since the war, also thanks to the fact that the Pilecki Institute very patiently And I thank all the researchers here. It digitizes German materials and brings them to Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u413	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This attempt at ostracism or some kind of contestation of the solutions of this law, for you incomprehensible, may involve the fact that someone is contesting at all and is against the Pilecki Institute as an institution at all. We had an example of this. But perhaps there are people in the courtroom who understand the meaning of the establishment of the Pilecki Institute, and have doubts expressed by Mr Borusewicz about these precisely local branches. And as I understand it, on the basis of an identical provision of the PISM, one branch established such a long-distance branch. Am I right? One? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] Tell me how long ago it was. Did this squad try? I'm sorry for the expression "get off on your own"? There were voices like that, I'm talking colloquially. Does that mean he was trying to free himself from the direction of the institution that called him? And do you predict that the Pilecki Institute's branches in the country will be created similarly, e.g. in the United States?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I think that the director of the present PISM, Mr. Sławomir Dębski, absolutely guarantees that this institution is being run in the right way. And we shouldn't use a term that's gonna cut them loose. Surely there is a need to set up such institutions outside the country. Contrary to appearances, we have such experts, very, very few in comparison with other countries, especially such as Germany, but also France. I'm not talking about Russia anymore. So Poland should enter this area bolder. And if you're asking... Yeah, this recipe is replicated. Except in the case of New York, because now we're talking about New York... I know, I remember creating a branch in Berlin, which was accompanied by comments: that we would definitely not do it, that nobody could do it. And yet we made it. Except it takes a lot of effort. I'm sure it's gonna be New York on the first roll, and it's gonna be a huge organizational effort. Here we do not foresee the use of this term, the company, but no longer Tel Aviv provides us with any other option. We have to be secure. So I think this recipe is safe enough to leave some space. The questions that were asked by Marshal Borusewicz and President Zdrojewska... We tried to answer them precisely. All the goods that belong to this institute are properly secured, we have left no distinction, because these local branches are strictly dependent on Warsaw. The head of the local branch is not appointed by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, but by the Director of the Institute. And creating a coherent structure is very important for us. Marshal Borusewicz also asked about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Well, as it happens, from the very beginning we have the closest cooperation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and perhaps the most meaningful symbol of this cooperation was the issue of the Ładosia Group. I will admit that I had great honor to begin or initiate a study on the Ładosia Group while Ambassador Kumoch was still in Bern, Switzerland, and this most close cooperation and agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still exists. I see nothing wrong with the fact that the Pilecki Institute is under the Ministry of Culture, but we are working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here. It seems to me that this is a good thing and that we are all here opponents of the Polish Ministry. There is no resort Poland s one Poland, one. It is our approach that depends on cooperation at the level of the Deputy Ministers and Ministers, but also on diplomats. Well, I've had a very good experience of it, and I would wish it on all the other vice-ministers about their departments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u416	If you don't mind, Minister... Just one question. The tool has already been tested 'Cause this was about how this tool is the way creation and legal form. And now the question I've asked is, how long has this test been going on? That the result is positive, that's what you said. But should we get rid of the possibilities? Well, I don't know how to put it. To indicate this as a possible pretext? The facts prove otherwise. How long has this test been going on, Minister? How long ago was the PISM unit called up?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u417	Since the PSIM is under the Foreign Minister, Senator, I propose that I respond in writing. Okay? Just give me some time, I'll ask my colleagues at the Foreign Office and we'll give you the right answer. I just wish we could I'm going to talk about it again. They understand the essence of this amendment. Let us remember that for the first time we are setting up a branch of an institute outside the European Union, and there really are other legal provisions. And that's kind of the point. Right? I just wanted to make sure we all understood that already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u418	You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u419	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, but also Director, looking at the activities of the Pilecki Institute, it is important to assess them very positively, both in the country and, as it is now, abroad. Thank you very much for these, and thank you also for this amendment. I believe that the Pilecki Institute should further expand its activities, including beyond the borders of the European Union. But I also have a question. Of course Poland, i.e. The Pilecki Institute, as a research institute, has the right to shape its own historical policy and how it also works abroad. But I would like to ask, what is it like in other countries, how research institutes work in other countries? Do they also have foreign offices and do they carry out research outside their own countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u420	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u421	Thank you very much. The politics of different... I mean, not all countries are very active in historical politics. The most active countries are definitely Russia, surely they are Germany, Israel, right? And each of these countries has its own established method of conducting historical policy. As far as Germany is concerned, it is certainly such a policy, I would say, institutional. At the beginning of the 1990s, a historical institute was established in Warsaw, and it also operates in 6 other European countries... Well, there's the Goethe Institute. And what's different from the Goethe Institute from the cultural institutes that are set up at foreign embassies is above all the budget and scale of action, because here are completely incomparable numbers. Polish cultural institutes are simply small and do not have this whole research facility, so to speak. And to really say something new and interesting in the field of history, to inspire a Western recipient too, we need to examine it first. Such opportunities are provided by the Pilecki Institute, but there is also good cooperation between various MFA institutions, i.e. cultural institutes, and various embassies. I said, for example. about the exhibition dedicated to Rafał Lemkin, who was one of the most outstanding lawyers of the 20th century, to whom we owe the concept of They do not know abroad that he was involved with Poland at all. It's an absolute novelty. But there were other exhibitions, soft power is also needed at the level of history. Across Europe, perhaps even further, there was an exhibition on the political rights of women, which, we remember, was granted in 1918. Besides, there was an exhibition by Ładoś, who really did. I think it's all over Europe and the United States. But this component can be given not by a small unit, but by a much larger one, which can make good contact with other cultural institutes, which can take from us an exhibition and all elements related to promotion. Sorry, I forgot, Senator. Was there another question? [[Voice from the room: No, just this.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u422	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u423	Thank you very much. Minister, you have already mentioned countries in which the appointment of subsidiaries is of particular priority. I have a question for you: whether or not. in Ukraine, in Kiev was the question of creating such a subsidiary considered? Have these issues been considered in countries outside the European Union, which are generally in the east? And then there's the second line. Will the subsidiaries cooperate with local Polish organizations, with Polonia? Well, because I understand that when it comes to professional environments in those countries that deal with history, it's kind of an object that you can just work with in some form. But will it also work with the Polish community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u424	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, when it comes to the activities of the Pilecki Institute in New York, of course, we are very much counting on Polonia and this cooperation must simply be. It is very important to us, very important, first, for obvious reasons, because they are Poles, second, for economic reasons too, because it will just be cheaper. I'll say right away: the Pilecki Institute has never been visited by people from so-called. Command. We never hire people who are not checked, and every person who is or will be employed at the Pilecki Institute must undergo a very long internship which will guarantee us professionalism and proper working mode. The creation of a good research institution is not, believe me, easy. Therefore, these foreign branches are formed at certain intervals. Of course, we would have made this branch in New York faster if it wasn't for the pandemic. This is our main enemy now. I will immediately say that those who want to work there will have to go through a very long internship, they will have to learn a lot. And then, once we're sure, we'll also reach for the forces of Polonia, 100%. For such good news, news: we now have 3 candidates for foreign historians, very famous. There are people with huge achievements, prestige, who not only offered us a desire to help, but even deeper, I would say, cooperation or even work at the Pilecki Institute. I'm sure these people will be used in the United States. Senator, there was one more question. [[I meant Ukraine, specifically Kiev and whether...]] Ah, Ukraine. I'll tell you what. I've been asked that in the Seym before. Let me put it this way: what was the point of us choosing Berlin? It is our biggest neighbour, with a very large, huge potential in terms of culture and science. These are completely inconstant amounts, those that appear in Germany and Poland. We thought it was very important that the German recipient could learn more about Poland than what is in the German newspapers. Right? Because it's just important. People all over the world are the same. They're curious. If they see something interesting, they come to debates, they come to meetings, they come to conferences, they come to exhibitions. I soft power works there. In favour of the choice of the United States, I believe that this is our greatest military ally, that we are in NATO, that it is our very serious partner and that we have not really had such a place so far. Of course, it would be a great honor if we could create such an institute in Ukraine, but given how much organizational effort the institute will cost us in New York, I suggest that we wait a little longer. You will assess for yourself whether we have succeeded, and then we will make a decision together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u426	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u427	Minister, wouldn't you like to think about it first? I'm not saying anything about Ukraine. The issue of Israel? Especially when it comes to these processes that are happening right now, online, practically in front of us. And shouldn't we be presenting our version of history in Israel? To have fewer problems with the present.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u428	I think that first of all we should actually present our history in an attractive way and try to convince people to it. But we should even exist, right? Because this problem that we've had so far has focused on one obvious case, i.e. Poland As I say, I'm happy about it, promoting culture, i.e. theatre, ballet, serious music or jazz. And that's very good, except we haven't added to this component of heritage and the problems that we have today are a little bit of the result. Of course, I agree that we should also promote this knowledge in Israel, but we need to find a way to reach the audience. It is also said that there are no shortcuts in historical politics like in jazz music. I mean, you just have to do it long, persistent, prudently. The effects will be very large, only these will be effects slightly postponed in time. Right? And you have to prepare for it. Mr. Senator, absolutely. Yes, I agree with you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] And that's what the amendment is for. Right? And that's why we're talking about this unfortunate company that's already eaten so much time. It's really hard to explain. I'm a historian myself, but I've been working with lawyers for six years because of my job. Believe me, lawyers look at laws differently. The legislator just looks at it differently. And it is actually a bit like you said, Marshal Borusewicz, that from the historian's perspective it is difficult to understand where this company came from. But it's just lawyers say that, for example. There is a legal system in Israel, not another, and if we do not protect ourselves properly, we will have to amend the law again. None of us really want that. It's a government amendment. I've been doing this for over six months, even longer, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u429	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] Well, Minister, we have our only chance here when it comes to Israel. Namely, part of this Israel, or young people, comes here, for example. The March of the Living. The point is that they would not only come to the territory of death, I would call it, in one large cemetery, so that they would not treat Poland... Here's the thing. to show them another Poland. Perhaps the institute would be involved in some way, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u430	I know that it was also the subject of a great concern of the Polin Museum. In fact, holocaust trips come only to Martyrology sites, and then they do shopping. They simply do not visit Polish museums. This is actually a very difficult case. There should be some understanding and a compromise should be reached with the Israeli side, but these activities are already in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are able to prepare the entire component associated with the tour of these young people. Not only information and a guide, but also something else they should leave with. I would just like to remind you that the Pilecki Institute conducted such an action called by name. This is an action dedicated to Poles who died because they were saving Jews. At the moment, we are delighted that German trips to Treblinka are also coming. And for the second year in a row, Mr. Kopówka, director of Treblinka, informed us that these trips go to Treblinka, and then they are already moving along the trail called by name. And there, on the spot, the story is told to them, how the Jews were hidden, why the Poles died, who did it at all, what the occupation reality looked like. And this is very interesting for them, because German youth is not taught at school at all, what occupation in Poland looked like. These are their first... Well, of course they know about the Holocaust, but they don't know what the occupation was like in our country. Very often this is how they first come into contact with this occupation reality. These are very valuable initiatives. In this way we can also expand our knowledge about Poland. It doesn't wake up, I'd say, bad emotions. This is rather reflection, this is reflection, this is also a duty, which rests not only on Poles, but also on Germans. We must remember the non-Jewish victims of the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u431	Thank you very much. Minister, that was the last question. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you so much for your answers. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, we've witnessed a discussion that just took place. I was also, of course, at a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. I think that anyone who deals with the issue of Poland's image in the international arena, also in historical terms, is not surprised that the Polish state organises institutions as far as possible, which can seek to ensure that our narrative is also present in the international space. This is a very politically and ideologically sensitive subject. We know that there are certain schemes that there are some shortcuts in international circulation, that we are dealing with the ignorance of the actual course of these dramatic events that took place in Poland, especially in the 20th century. And for this reason, there is never enough action to improve the image of Poland and, above all, to allow for a discourse at the expert level, at the scientific level, a discourse based on reliable knowledge. And from this point of view, I support the legislative initiative to extend the scope of the Pilecki Institute's activities, all the more so since we have recently seen an increased... intense discussion on this subject. Ooh, that's how I'm gonna say In the international arena. I don't want to go into detail here anymore, I don't want to say exactly what I'm talking about here, but I think a lot of Poles, a lot of people. Not only Poles, but all those who know the historical truth It hurts that we are being denied, false or inadequate statements are being used, and history is being manipulated. I will say this: every respectable country has its own historical policy. Historical policy has Russia, historical policy has Germany, historical policy has Israel, historical policy has Italy. I can appeal to such an example here that the involvement of guerrillas who fought the fascist regime in Italy is particularly emphasized in the historical policy of Italy. Whoever was at various events connected with the liberation of Italy had an excellent opportunity to see how one could mythologize actions that were incidental, how one could give them the rank of something completely universal, to adapt them to a certain contemporary political narrative. I don't want to talk about other countries, but this is happening everywhere. And that is why I think that the Pilecki Institute should as much as possible enter into the palette of institutions that deal with this issue. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz points out that there are many institutions And so it is. They're doing it in some way. We had a recent election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and during the discussion we talked about the need to step up the impact of the Institute on the international arena by publishing scientific works in other languages, works that will be in the scientific circulation of Europe-wide or global. The Pilecki Institute has, you can say, its specific profile of action and within this profile it needs opportunities to influence the international arena. And from this point of view, it was chosen, in my opinion, a rational way... In her speech, the Minister pointed out that the possibility of creating these subsidiaries is not only within the European Union. Certain legal bases on which such institutions could operate are clear and clear. So that it is particularly important that these subsidiaries can be created in countries that are outside the European Union and which are Polish allies and are in the family of democratic nations. It's just that there's a need for the Pilecki Institute to operate there. So, of course, I support this bill. I hope that this motion from Marshal Borusewicz... Maybe I can convince your marshal not to stand by that motion and at least to hold off on the vote. Let me put it this way: let's give it a chance... And I am making an amendment to this bill, which gives the Senate a chance, a chance to monitor the activities of the Pilecki Institute in an even better way. During the work at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, there was a talk about a record that aroused a lot of emotions. It is stated that the Sejm Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Sejm Committee on Culture and Media are to assess the achievement of the objectives to be pursued by the Institute. This amendment raised formal legal doubts as to whether it could have been introduced at all. Besides, the Sejm Committee With all due respect, he is the organ of the Sejm It can't have power, it's not a board of directors or some kind of board of directors. Of course, it has control functions resulting, by nature, from the constitution, from the control functions of Parliament, but it cannot be such an organ for the Pilecki Institute. And that's why in the course of the discussion it was developed, I think, in consensus. This idea, and I will formally make such an amendment, in Article. Point 6, point 6a, was replaced by the following: "presentation each year, no later than 31 March', so as to fit in the first quarter Report on the activities of the Sejm Institute and the Senate committees responsible for the scope of their activities. And this would be a very good opportunity for us to have, firstly, information, secondly, the opportunity to discuss how we evaluate the Institute's activities in this area, what we think is good and what we think should be changed. It gives you a chance. This was specifically formulated in this way, i.e. without giving the names of the committee's own names in the Seym and in the Senate, because any amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Seym or the Senate would have to be amended. I would like to make such an amendment to the marshal's staff and ask my fellow senators to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u433	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because there were such suggestions from one of the Senators of PiS that we may not want to promote the merits of Poland during World War II that we do not want to defend against attacks... We watch, listen and see what is happening, but of course also on the side of the Polish authorities mistakes are made, which then result in our bad situation or much worse situation. We remember the amendment of the law on IPN, where the principle of punishment for defaming the Polish people was introduced. She predicted that anyone would say that the Pole was involved in the Nazi crime, that he would be punished. I stress: this one will be punished. Well, unfortunately, that was the situation. And I've heard that... of course, historians could study, but the case wasn't about stories. The historian could study, he could write how it was and it was different, but the ordinary citizen, including Poland or another country, who said that there were Poles who embezzled the principle of support and rescue for those worst treated, or Jews, that they were moneymakers, etc... I'm not gonna say it again. This case is known. But then the reaction... What was the effect of this kind of action? Well, the effect was very negative for Poland. Very. The concept of Polish concentration camps, which appeared... Yeah, that's when it started to appear massively. This was the result of unthinkable actions. But just to be clear, of course... Research on the character of Witold Pilecki is the 1990s, said the Minister. In 1974 in the group I discussed Witold Pilecki, because it was already known, at least in some environments. And it was an extreme example, but very characteristic that Witold Pilecki became a victim of 2 totalitarianisms. It was very symbolic. And it was because of us, young people at the Catholic University of Lublin, who were doing something there, who were creating some opposition group, discussed. It was known and discussed. I just wanted to remind you that it didn't look like I heard about it today, and I'm having second thoughts. About this heroic man's attitude. [[Voice from the O.R. Officer...]] Also a heroic officer, but a reserve officer. I would also like to say that the Minister misconstrued the concepts. She was wrong, just like she was at the committee meeting. You were talking about a facility in Berlin, you were talking about how this facility works, and so on. You were talking about some new resorts, and underneath that, you were making this new proposal that the resort went out with. "Commercial law companies." Centres? There you go. And the foundations, too. But the commercial law company... Well, you have to seriously think about it, because these companies of commercial law are to be equipped with Polish taxpayers' money. In New York City, 13 million to start and 20 jobs, in Tel Aviv, 17 million. That's about $30 million to start with. I repeat: I don't question And we didn't question The branch's activities, although of course this needs to be looked at. We were questioning this proposal, a new proposal, a whole new form, an innovative... She could have been good, but she could have had serious financial consequences. The motion to reject the law is justified by the fact that the Minister was unable to explain what this form of commercial company would look like, how the Polish taxpayers' money would be secured in this commercial law company. The commercial law company operates according to commercial law, according to the commercial code. This is the case in Poland and it is probably similar elsewhere. That's the reason for the motion to reject the bill. And referring to what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done with its agenda... Well, it must be said that this agenda was formally set up in 2020, but it has not yet started to act, has not started. So we don't know how it works and whether it's safe, whether it's safe for the money invested. I repeat: I did not question, we did not question the operation of the troops and the operation of this branch in Berlin. However, I've reviewed the information on how this money was spent, and I have some reservations. Well, for the inauguration ceremony of the branch in Berlin and the opening of the exhibition, the volunteer was spent 982 thousand 878 PLN and 74 gr, and for the promotional campaign of the exhibition of the volunteer and the image of the branch as part of its inauguration of 498 thousand 234 PLN and 91 gr, i.e. half of it. But I'm not gonna check it out, so let President Banas check it out. It's not like it's a senator's job to check it out. But reservations, a certain alarm signal that you have to check these companies of commercial law exactly... Will it be possible to withdraw measures such as this commercial law company, in accordance with commercial law, to go into other waters? That must be the answer, and that wasn't the answer. And that's why my concerns and reservations, and my motion to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u435	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is worth distinguishing the ideology of the governing camp from the evaluation of individual institutions. Well, ideology is absolutely destructive when it comes to the possibilities of Poland on the international stage. Well, we know that this is a subject of historical internal policy, with a whole range of effects in the form of isolation, errors. The helms of this camp and the creators of this ideology have no ambition for Poland to radiate and Poland to attract. I'm talking about the main current. First of all, the intention to empathize with our history, as if everyone would listen only to our experience. But what Minister Gawin presented is a good school of state historical policy, one that was born at the end of AWS and was conducted for a good several years. I mean, I didn't notice any traces of what's destroying Poland here. I have the same or similar reservations and uncertainties as Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, but I would give credit to this institution because it's such a piece. the normal world Of course, it is organized, as it always is, somehow original, but focused on systematic educational work, on systematic research, on the systematic impact of the Polish perspective on the international arena. And, as I understand it, the dexterity here is that it's released. At least by the helmmen of this institution From the mistakes of the ideology of the governing camp, for which Jarosław Kaczyński and those who have a powerful influence on the formation of this ideology. But it seems to me that we would be completely crazy if we judged all cultural institutions through the prism of what Kaczyński says... Prime Minister Kaczyński or Prime Minister Morawiecki. Because this power will go away, and the institutions will remain. And I like the idea of a constant control over the activities of institutions, the idea of reporting, and I would give it credit and once again rethink this motion to reject the bill, especially after what we have heard here today. Because this is really an institution operating in a different logic than the one that destroys Polish memory policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u437	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mr. Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I, to be honest, thought that this point would be such a non-controversial point, that we would very quickly end the debate on it, especially since, as Senator Zdrojewska said at the very beginning, Mr Pilecki's person does not raise any controversy. 'Cause it can't be controversial. Anyone who's read his résumé... There is also what Minister Gawin said, i.e. that in the Seym this law passed by a majority of three hundred and eighty votes, which shows that also colleagues in the Seym from other parliamentary clubs, apart from the parliamentary club of Law and Justice, supported it. That's why I'm surprised that at the Senate right now... at the committee meeting. I'm not a member of this committee. There was a motion to reject this law. I think Minister Gawin explained very clearly this question, which appeared in the statements of Marshal Borusewicz. After all, this company of commercial law could possibly be established Because it's a matter of possibility, isn't it? If we are forced to do so by the American rules in the context of certain efficiency of functioning and carrying out tasks in the United States or later, in the future, in Israel, because that is how I understand the Minister's statement. This is some kind of instrument, some kind of legal and organizational tool, which, of course, will cost money, but if we set up in the United States, let's set up a foundation or a branch, it would also cost money, we would have to hire these people there somehow. In my opinion, it is worth fighting for this truth, it is worth building a positive image, it is worth doing this research. A few days ago we had the seventy-seventh anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. A few years ago, studies were carried out and it turned out that most Europeans were confused by the Warsaw Uprising with the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. So, as a Polish country, we have a huge task to reach Europe, Western Europe or with this true history of ours. The United States. This shows even what was said, these difficult Polish-Israeli relations and how little knowledge about what was happening in Poland during World War II, about how the Poles fought, not only in the context of helping and hiding Jews, but in general how difficult it was to live in Poland, how we suffered losses, probably in proportion to the greatest losses during World War II, which so far have not been compensated in any satisfactory way. That is why I am also joining and thank you to Senator Kazimierz Michałów Ujazdowski, whom I remember here, from Lower Silesia, these are the times of AWS, but also later, in this term of office 2005-2007, during the first rule of law and justice, when this historical policy, which the Minister then led... And she stayed. That's very wise of you to say. The power goes through, we will give it back someday, and these institutions, this policy must continue, no matter who rules. And the situation, such perception of Poland and lack of knowledge, because it results from a lack of knowledge, and we really have nothing to be ashamed of in our history... It is worth to have such institutions. I know the minister, and I know she's gonna try to get this institute, whether it's in the form of a branch... Well, we just have to adapt to legal and organisational solutions in the country where we want to create this institution. Finally, I would like to say such a thing. Unfortunately, you don't have Senator Zdrojewska who said something outrageous, sad. If someone wants to use it against Poland, they should cut out this fragment of the statement and let it go somewhere, so, against Poland, it is about saying that Poland is browning. This is simply a false statement, a statement defaming what is happening in Poland today. Of course, there may be individual cases, it can always happen that there will be some idiot one with another and he will do so, but to say that Poland is brownish under the rule of Law and Justice is simply a lie and it is not only a defamatory government, not only defaming the Law and Justice, but, above all, defaming Poland and damaging Poland. And I would very much ask that Senator Zdrojewska Let's face it, I'm gonna say it really hard, she didn't say that kind of bullshit because it's bad for Poland. And we as parliamentarians should do everything we can to ensure that Poland's image on the international stage is as good as possible. Therefore, thank you again for this voice of reason to Senator Ujazdowski. I hope that we will be able to adopt this uncontroversial law in no way. And I, if I could say that I would expect something, would expect this Pilecki Institute to be financially equipped so that we can, as Senator Czerwiński said here, open many branches in different countries and the European Union, and outside the European Union, because there is a need to speak well about Poland and carry out research. After all, if we didn't have such an ambassador at one time, for example. The whole story of helping Jews in Switzerland wouldn't see the light of day. Too bad it took so long. Such research and promotion institutions are needed as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u439	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Digression, for starters. Well, in the speech of one of the ladies, the senator was named "Krzyzowa." Indeed, it is true that we were dealing with what we call a reconciliation service there, but unfortunately the reconciliation service ended at this mass, it ended with a gesture of Polish-German reconciliation. The fact that there is economic cooperation, etc., is good, but when it comes to history and the consequences of this story for both countries, we are still different. Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg is associated with the Cross. And here I would like to warn against such, I would say, newspaper, publicist courts on Polish-German relations. I will quote to you what one of the honored German officers, also in the West, spoke about Poles in one of his letters to his wife: "The local population is an incredible mob, a lot of Jews and hybrids. A nation that obviously needs a baton to feel good. Thousands of prisoners will certainly contribute to the development of our agriculture. Germany can benefit from this because they are diligent, hardworking and not demanding. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's a publicist story. So much for the Digression of the Cross. And as for the bill we're dealing with... I admit I didn't think she could cause such controversy. There are, I suppose, three groups of senators in this room. The first is those who claim that it is really a technical law, that it introduces another tool, another way of achieving the objectives, I hope, accepted by the legislator, which are related to historical policy. Because we do not have to be ashamed of Poland's historical policy. We don't have to think of anything. Poland does not need to convert the word All we have to do is recreate the story and tell the truth. The truth about Poland defends itself, we will talk more about it in the next item. Therefore, this group, which is mainly focused on Law and Justice, but I hope that there are also such people on the other side of the room, says that one more tool for implementing historical policy, namely the creation of subsidiaries by the institute, is simply needed. There's a second group. I understand that it is represented by Marshal Borusewicz, and that is how I treat his statement. It's a tool that's afraid that it's gonna be inoperable, and I'd say it's gonna stand up to those goals that it's gonna be created for. But here we have two indications against that view. The first message: similarly created That's what Art. 7c in the Law on PISM. A subsidiary may be starting its activity because the novel is actually from 2019 but has not done anything wrong yet. So we are talking about future and uncertain things when it comes to speculation about how this could end badly. Let's give him a chance, buy this fate, give him a chance to exist. And then there's the second condition that's connected to the first one. If we do not conduct this policy in an expansive way outside Poland, mainly in such environments that have doubts about what history looked like, because unfortunately, this story is presented unilaterally. The U.S., but Israel too, will turn this against us. We have examples of this now. After all, we have experienced this, also in this House. So we either do it or... We may not do that. But then let us not complain that others do not know what the Nazi occupation looked like in Poland. Let's just not complain because we're committing a sin of omission. And a third group of senators. In fact, those who, under the pretext of being able to create subsidiaries by the Institute, question the validity of the Institute's existence in general, question the validity of historical policy. I say once again: it is not politics understood as something that encodes Polish history, but as something that shows Polish history. That's enough, really. We have very few embarrassing moments in this story. All we have to do is show what our ancestors really did during World War II. Now, here's the thing. If we question the existence of an institute or its activities, then any excuse will be good, as not this one, then different, e.g. wrong color of the facade of the institute building. There's always something. Tell me honestly: do you not think that historical politics should be pursued, that Poland has not earned this, in quotes, or has not grown up yet? We're over 50 years behind anyway. The others did it. Half the world doesn't know who led World War II, who's responsible for it. Not Germans, Nazis. Yeah, but then Let us not resent this uneducated world that it does not know what World War II looked like in Poland. Unfortunately, she's not, in quotes, locked up yet. Its effects continue until today. Her painting is warped. Only now do we stand up to independence, which allows us to present a real picture, as I say, uncolored, unlucrated. We don't have to do this. To this third group, I have this appeal: don't bother. Give the Pilecki Institute a chance and those who claim that we should pursue an informed historical policy, a chance to further intensify these activities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u441	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the list of speakers... [[Me too.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u442	In some sense, in response to recent speeches, I must say that it is absolutely unacceptable for me to try to build an image, as this current opposition to the government has anything against historical politics. We just want historical politics to be practiced on the basis of truth, reliability, transparency, professional and not in conflict with the world, only so that this world is closer to us, not more distant. Underestimating Willy Brandt's gestures or the significance of gestures and facts connected with the meeting of Chancellor Kohl and Tadeusz Mazowiecki violates a very important part of the Polish state's right. I was a minister. I carried out tasks, built objects, institutions that served historical politics, whether it was the Museum of World War II, whether it was the reconstruction of Arkad Kubicki, whether it was the Wilanów, the Royal Castle in Krakow or other objects, whether it was Polin, or the preservation of the most difficult heritage, world and Polish, connected with Auschwitz-Birkenau. I would like to make it clear that the most important element of the policy at that time was the lack of exclusion, tolerance, openness. Basi's wife wasn't there when she was attacked. I don't have to defend her. She's doing great on her own. But I will refer to two other phenomena that I observe: I observe the isolation of Poland from Europe, the questioning of European institutions, which are also our institutions, I also observe the policy of financing such movements or such people, or such foundations, or associations, which among their various activities also have hatred for these other institutions, including Poles. I don't accept it. I want to defend the right to a different understanding of the basic things that are most important to Poland... I will say that for me, it is very important for us to be open, tolerant, transparent and not to use various pretexts to divide Poles into better and worse, patriots and non-patriots. Patriotism may have different faces, different colors, but everyone has the right to their sensitivity, their emotions, their hierarchy and values, and please do not deny it to anyone. I don't feel like I belong to any of the groups you've told me about, either the first or the second or the third. I have always tried my professional life, also with political activity to serve Poland in the best faith and in the best way. And trying to deny us this or share us again into some groups I consider to be violating the most important thing that allows Poles not to act against Poles, so that they do not build walls where they should not be. I don't think this bill should be the source of division. Unfortunately, in recent speeches it was again, which, in short, I regret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u443	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! In fact, perhaps a little unexpectedly this debate affects fundamental things, i.e. how the Polish state, the Polish national community, is to take care of its image in the international community. And I would like to refer to three false stereotypes, in our opinion, which, unfortunately, including the Minister, will probably no longer be present... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Oh, I'm so sorry, and thank you for being here. You guys are persistently promoting. The first is that it was not aware of the efforts of the Polish state to promote Polish culture, Polish history and Polish world achievements. Of course they were. The Minister said that the first institution to set up its international branch was in 2019. PISM and that this indicates how shyly we promoted Polish history. Of course, PISM is not from promoting Polish history, it is only an institution dealing with international relations, it is a think tank supported by the state and supporting the state. Of course, such efforts, and it was quite organized, as the former minister, our current colleague Senator Ujazdowski, praised by you, has been for at least two thousand years, and actually since the 1990s, since the regaining of independence in 1989. Of course, they took shape and gained strength with the growing strength and wealth of the Polish state. So it's not true that you guys invented a wheel. And it is not true that since the establishment of this or another Pilecki Institute, the conscious promotion of achievements of Polish and Polish history abroad began. But it is reasonable to ask how this promotion should be carried out, what are the effective methods of presenting the Polish perspective on the international stage. I'll start at the end. By 2015, the number of positive publications about Poland in the world press, both popular and specialized, was growing by the Institutes dealing with the image of Poland abroad. Since 2016, together with the number of wars that the rule of law and justice has caused with Germany, with the French, with the United States, with Israel, with Ukraine and lately even with the Czech Republic, this number of positive publications about Poland, including Polish history, is steadily decreasing and the number of negative publications is increasing. Those are the facts. Why? Because the position of the country and its image on the international arena is not built, creating a 1-, 2- or 5-person institute anywhere, just building a narrative of a serious country that is proud of its achievements and wants to talk to others. I do not have ideological problems with the establishment of further branches of the Pilecki Institute, but even the honourable minister, speaking about the achievements of the Berlin branch, talked mainly about the fact that we managed to digitize something that was there and show it in Poland. It's not a promotion abroad, it's just bringing new things into circulation in Poland that were either found there, or at least popularized. And this is also important, only that this is not a promotion of Poland abroad, nor a promotion of Polish history abroad, nor a Polish view of history, e.g. European, overseas. Much more the Republic as a state and as a nation has achieved since 1989, using cooperation with such great historians of the Anglo-Saxon world Of course, he dominates international dialogue, so de facto it is an international environment, common as Norman Davies, like Timothy Garton Ash or Timothy Snyder. With them all, the rule of law and justice of Poland has divided. I'll end up with personal attention. I will refer to the case from over 5 years ago, from early spring 2016, when the Museum of Poles Saving Jews, commonly known as the Ulm family museum, was opened in Poland. At that time in Toronto, in a very large Jewish environment, the second largest after New York in North America, there was a public transmission from the opening of this museum in Poland. It was such a symbolic opening in which the leaders of the Jewish community participated in Toronto, and thus throughout Canada. And that was possible, that's why... I no longer say that this museum was not built during the four months of rule of Law and Justice, because then Law and Justice ruled four months, only much earlier. I am talking about this because it was the last big event organized by Polish diplomacy, which was attended by representatives of these communities, those communities that have And here we agree with Senator Czerwinski, probably in this one thing. Sometimes distorted and sometimes even, you can say, a distorted image of Polish history and Polish-Jewish history. These were the chief executives of the Toronto rabbis. Why? Because Polish diplomacy, and then also what needs to be mentioned in this debate, representatives of the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, systematically and effectively built relations with these environments. And even in non-trustful environments towards Poland the image of Poland and sensitivity to Polish historical arguments were built. Well, this is all over because you guys have caused this last 5.5 years, as I said, unnecessary from the point of view of national war interests. I remind this infamous memory of the amendment of the IPN Act with various environments and various countries. At the moment, we have, for example. to deal with a completely meaningless war with the United States around TVN. I hope you will also withdraw from it, as you have withdrawn today from the equally infamous memory of trying to put a muzzle on Polish judges in the form of a disciplinary chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u445	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish historical policy must be the emancipation of patriotism, however we will come to patriotism, or like Senator Zdrojewski, or simply, without adjectives. Patriotism is the love of the country. And the emancipation of this patriotism must be Polish historical policy. I thank you very much, Minister, for the fact that you have phenomenally presented the principles of this law, which will clearly strengthen what we can do outside the country. Because beyond the borders of the country, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal to be done. From personal examples... There were delegations, there were trips, back when I was in the local government. And we talked, for example. with the Germans. I have many friends among the Germans, we respect each other very much and like each other, but the German nation quickly forgets what happened in 1939 and 1945. And unfortunately, we need to keep reminding ourselves. They guide Polish tours in German towns and the narrative is built in such a way that here the Allies destroyed, leveled up other towns. There is not a single word in this narrative about the fact that it was the Germans in 1939, but also many years earlier, they caused a storm that destroyed Europe at that time. Dear fellow Members, what my esteemed previous speaker said about the wars of Law and Justice is a profound injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, if the foreign media, by nature, are liberal... Everyone, dear people, knows that Europe has gone into strong liberal and leftist media. Dear Lords, all that the government does, which draws from the conservative traditions, from the Christian traditions... Every act of it will be severely criticised, ridiculed, misunderstood. And so it is, my dear fellows, happening. We are in Europe, this is a great community of nations, but in this Europe everyone has their interests. And if someone forgets about it, they think that the Western countries love us with unselfish love, they make a big mistake in my opinion. Once again, I thank the Minister and the Government for preparing this law, which will significantly strengthen Polish historical policy and will be an emanation of Polish patriotism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u447	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u448	Ladies and gentlemen! I will not withdraw from the words, Dear Senators and Senators, that Poland is brownening us. And I don't even know if it's just the PiS who's responsible for it. But I have the right to ask the question, and it is the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Culture, why such an organization as Bąkiewicz's organization gets such high support of PLN 3 million from the Minister of Culture. Why is this happening? What's this money going for and for who? And now, is Poland browning us? I have the right to answer because I'm supposed to be out, and Senator Frost... I don't know what he said, so I'm not gonna talk about it, but he's got me on the line. I would like to say that I think we see two Polish. Because I see Poland in such a way that you go on manifestations, on a monthly basis, for several years, later on various kinds of patriotic celebrations, to which our site is usually not invited or set somewhere in the sixth, seventh row, as Donald Tusk was once set up for some national ceremony... This is how you treat us. So you can see a slightly different picture of Poland, this wonderful, patriotic one, where everyone goes to various kinds of celebrations, participate in Masses. And me, because I'm moving between normal people, not behind police cordons... [[Voice from the room: Insanity...]] ...I see women being beaten in the streets, I see Kasia's struggling grandmother who was here in the Senate, and I see these paintings. I see nationalists marching for state money and shouting Fascist slogans on the streets. And that is why I have the right to say that Poland is brownening because it is increasing. I hope it doesn't. [[Rainbows.]] As for the Minister, I will say, because not all of them participated in the committee meeting, it was held with a break, in two rounds... and the problem was that at this first meeting of the committee, the minister seemed to be a person who was offended that we were asking any questions at all. It really was. We asked about the costs, we didn't get an answer. I heard I had to write... I submitted a written statement to find out how much a Polish taxpayer costs this institute in Berlin, how much it costs in New York... The Minister, as I say, offends people like people who have been working for years at the Krzyżów Foundation or at the Reconciliation Foundation, who act in good faith, with great success, to make this reconciliation a fact. What Senator Bosacki was talking about... I remember that when the Platform was in charge, it was such events as a common prayer and mass at the Cross, when Chancellor Merkel arrived and when Prime Minister Kopacz arrived there, it was somehow at the end of our reign... But we also know these historical gestures that have happened. Now there are no such gestures, because these relations are so tense, and for that is the responsibility of the Law and Justice. It wasn't the Union that turned on us, it wasn't Chancellor Merkel, it wasn't Germany and it wasn't The Americans turn their backs on us, only we turn our backs on them. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. I'm entitled to that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u449	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Swede and Gromek have made their speeches in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Koc, Borowski and Jackowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister. From the place or from the platform? You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Microphone...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u450	It's on. I would like to thank you once again for the discussion between the senators and the senators, also for these general reflections on the state of knowledge about Poland's history in Western Europe and beyond the ocean. I think at that Mass at the Cross... I agree, this is a Polish-German institution and of course reconciliation is very important, important, it should not be limited only to the sphere of gestures, but... And I would like to assure President Zdrojewska that we were probably at the same meeting I participated in it when Chancellor Merkel was present and when you were Chancellor Kopacz. And I want to remind you that even recently... [[Voices from the room: Prime Minister. Not the Chancellor.]] Yes, Prime Minister. And recently the high German politicians were also at the anniversary celebration of the Warsaw Uprising. It's just that as far as I'm concerned... I don't think we can lock ourselves in such a closed circle of empty gestures. Well, it's either empty or real, because it's not just about gestures. We're just concerned that the source of knowledge for most of us is just school textbooks and that he's growing up... Well, without that education at school, without historical information, we can't change that. And the problem isn't that the Germans are bad. I never said it, and I'm not going to say it, because I think it's the opposite, i.e. That people all over the world are pretty much alike. However, if in their school textbooks we simply have a complete lack of knowledge about Poland, then we cannot demand that knowledge of the Germans be sufficient. And all I'm saying is that we should understand together that we should go a little beyond this magic gesture. The gesture is important, but we can't just limit ourselves to gestures. And I'll tell Senator Bosack... Of course, working with these great historians is very important. Recently, after the meeting of UNESCO, Poland was attacked in an alliance by China and Russia, I received a beautiful letter from Timothy Snyder, which is addressed to the UNESCO World Heritage Committee and in which it tells how important it has played a role in the history of Poland. So I would like to assure Senator Bosacki that this cooperation is not and will not be broken. And, more importantly, the Pilecki Institute has just proposed a method of cooperation with historians, including those who are from the Anglo-Saxon world, who do not know Polish language. Because what you have in common with your historians maybe besides Timothy Garton Ash, because he says relatively... But he speaks Polish too. Nevertheless, many historians He doesn't speak Polish. So the Pilecki Institute, Mr. Senator, translates sources from Polish into English and into other languages, for historians dealing with the history of Poland. And I would like to mention to you that the book "Volunteer" by Jacek Fairweather, a prominent war correspondent, "The Washington Post" was created in collaboration with the Pilecki Institute and was positively reviewed, in addition to having received 2 prestigious prizes "in "The Daily Teregraphs," "De Morgen" and "The Wall Street Journal," "The Times," "Mail on Sunday," "Time Magazine," "The Spectator," "The Jewish Chronicle," "History Today," "The Sunday Times," "The Economist," "The Sun" and "Daily Mail," "Literary Review." I hope that this cooperation will continue to develop. I think he's threatening us... It is not a matter of leftism or right-wingness, but I want to say this very thing that is so important today. The very clear domination of China and Russia, which want to impose their own identity on Europe, has emerged, and we must be properly prepared for this. What happened to UNESCO and other international organisations is not an accident. Money has been invested there, there are even attempts to change internal rights, such operational guidelines, so that the entire memory of Central and Eastern Europe is not recorded. We need to be prepared for this. Here, not everything takes place only at the level of the left-wing right-wing. There are also concrete actions in particular countries. And I would like Poland to be better prepared for this. As President Zdrojewska mentioned that the opposition is not always invited to all ceremonies, exhibitions, I would like to invite everyone once again. to the Wawelberg Colony, where on Friday at 6:00 p.m. the exhibition will be opened under the title "Evacuation." Photos from the Heinz Rheinefarth investigation. New photos, new archive materials, an extremely interesting exhibition. I would also like to invite everyone to the family reunion called by name. These are people who have very different views, who vote for different political parties. I would like the Senate members to be able to get to know these families the hardest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u451	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. The text of the Act is contained in print No 464, and the report of the Commission In print No 464 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear Senators and Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I have the honour to present the opinion of the committee on the bill on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. Let me take off my mask... Maybe I'll be better heard. If you're a senator, a doctor nodding his head, I think I can. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will now tell you what the purpose of the bill is. The aim of the Act is to establish specific investment solutions related to the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. Royal in Warsaw. The designer's intention was to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland. The rebuilt Saski Palace is to be a permanent monument of independence and a symbol of state continuity and the attachment of citizens to native culture and heritage, which constitute the common good of the whole nation. The Act is a special regulation, i.e. the so-called. Specialists. So it's done in a similar way as it used to be in the construction of stadiums or the Vistula mine. The special arrangements provided for in the Act aim to restore, apart from the Saski Palace, other buildings constituting before the Second World War the western washing of the square of Marshal Józef Piłsudski in Warsaw, and the northern washing of the square of Stanisław Małachowski in Warsaw, i.e. The building of the Brühl Palace, Ossolinskiego, Sandomierzki and 3 tenement houses, former Warsaw real estate at ul. King's Six. The explanatory memorandum to the project stresses that the condition of an efficient investment process, in addition to financial, technical and expert facilities, is the provision of adequate legal tools to enable investment to be carried out and that the application to investments related to the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, etc. The general rules would extend the duration of its implementation, hence it is in the form of a specialty. In view of the fact that the investment of the Saski Palace concerns the reconstruction of the historic urban and construction system of the western feather of the present Marshal Józef Piłsudski Square and the aim of providing substantive support to the Minister responsible for cultural and heritage protection, the Act provides for the creation of a reconstruction council which is an advisory and advisory body at the Minister's office. I am talking about this, and I am paying particular attention to this because this body will be concerned with an amendment that we have already proposed at the committee meeting and which we will propose here. I'm not discussing this project. I think the Minister will discuss it in detail, if necessary, because the hour is late. I also think that our more than two hours of discussion at the meeting of the cultural committee was very interesting and may regret those who were not there because it was a very substantive exchange of opinions and opinions. In fact, these divisions were not always political, but there was a great deal of commitment in some people. It was a heated discussion, but, I would say, at a high level of substance, because anyone who listened could learn a lot about Warsaw, about these plans, about what was to be there, etc. No matter how many people vote on this issue, I think it was worth being in this committee meeting and hearing the various opinions that appeared there. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few things that have been discussed. I'd start with history. There were more experts on the story who showed up. We invited... Former Minister Małgorzata Paprock of the President, former Minister Magdalena Gawin, was Mr Michał Olszewski, Deputy President of Warsaw. There were also experts: Professor Małgorzata Omilanowska, art historian, but also practices regarding the implementation of large investments in culture; Grzegorz Friday, architect and varsavianist, but also the author of such an appeal, which was made and signed by people of culture, architects, famous art historians, insurgents, etc., who protest against the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. You were also Jerzy Bombczynski from the Association of Saski 2018, who spoke. You were also Mr. Jan Kowalski from the independent organization, but this gentleman did not speak. Like I said, the discussion was about a few things. We talked not only about the history of the palace itself, but also about the functions, about the communication system, about the grave of the Unknown Soldier as what will remain... as what has been such an important place in the last years of the war, and about what will be next with this tomb of the Unknown Soldier. We have talked about costs that are enormous, unprecedented, on a European and global scale, and are worth PLN 2 billion 400 million. We've been making adjustments. We also talked about what I think will interest all the senators, which is whether the Senate's seat is to be there, because it is planned there, and what the Senate would say, what the senators would say. And since you were Adam Niemczewski, the head of the firm acting on behalf of Marshal Grodzki, but above all on behalf of the firm And Mr. Marshal Karczewski, a great enthusiast of rebuilding the Saski Palace and moving the Senate there, the discussion was interesting, arguments came from both sides. To people who may not be fully aware of it, I'm going to say that the building in the project is called the Saski Palace... In fact, the controversy is about whether it is the Saski Palace or not. Anyway, it was a building that was built in the 1940s on the ruins of the Saski Palace. That's all I'm talking about right now was at the committee meeting. I repeat what was said at the committee meeting. This building was created by the will of the possessive authorities, by the will of the Russian possessor and by the money of the Russian investor Ivan Skwarcov, as a commercial building, as a multifunctional tenement for rent. Then he was taken over by the Russian troops, which he served until 1915. That's why enthusiasts call this building the Saski Palace, and malice calls it the Square Palace. Until 1915, as I say, there was the seat of the possessors. I don't know if you know this, but this building wasn't that big, especially if you compare it with the Holy Council. Alexander Nevsky, who dominated the Saski Palace and was standing in the middle of the present Piłsudski Square. According to Professor Omilanowska, who wrote an article on this subject... Mr Grzegorz Friday is a varsavianist, he also wrote articles and books. They said some interesting things. In fact, this palace has served military purposes for years. In the interwar period there was a military staff there, for the occupation there was the seat of the Wehrmacht. During World War I there was a seat of German troops, and before that there was a seat of Russian troops. There were always staffs there. Why am I bringing this up? Why is it so important? Because we're already moving on to a function that this rebuilt building would perform. In functional terms, this is a very strange building. I'm not gonna go into it if it was a building... Well, there's also an opinion that this was actually a rather unfavorable building. And if we're talking about his function, I don't know if you're familiar with it, but he had this very high ground floor, which before the war was robbed, because there was a headquarters there all the time. It was completely unavailable. I'm gonna go upstairs... Well, it was two high floors, it was a high ground floor, and it was a floor. So, according to the experts, he will not perform the centre or the city's creative functions. It means that somewhere down there, on this ground floor, there should be places where people would come, where something would happen, and so on. It would be very difficult because there were only two entrances. Therefore, the question that was raised at the meeting of the cultural committee was whether this palace... There was almost no way in, there were only two entrances, somewhere on one side and on the other side of the present Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The rest was locked up. So this building probably won't live very much, especially since it also has the function of a voivodship office for it. Of course, people will be there... Yeah, we heard there was supposed to be a voivodship office. Other buildings are to be the Senate and other buildings are to be used for cultural purposes. Of course, like everyone else who remembers... Because the idea of rebuilding this palace in the first place was for President Piskorski. The Warsaw authorities kept thinking about rebuilding it. Warsaw City Hall was supposed to be there. And these ideas, through President Lech Kaczyński... Later, it was continued by President Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who even made a study, obtained a building permit, etc., but because of the crisis then, it was withdrawn from the project and it was not undertaken. Today we hear there's going to be a voivodship office. I would like to point out that the city hall has a completely different rank in every city than the provincial office. Well, let's say, especially today, in its limited competence, which each of the regional offices has... Yeah, but that's the deal. Warsaw Office... They've been... It is difficult to talk about the consultation on the law itself, but discussions on this issue have been ongoing. And a lot of people... Warsaw authorities participated, talked... This was the conversation of Marshal Karczewski. That's the kind of conversation you had later on when you talked to the president about what it was supposed to be like. But that doesn't change the fact that some controversy is still there, as evidenced by the letter I just mentioned. In this letter is also about the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and how important a symbolic function this Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is as a ruin, not something that would be hidden in the rebuilt Saski Palace. It is, and it is emphasized by everyone, at least this generation, which is tied to the memory of the destruction of Warsaw, about the ruin of... In fact, there's no more... Warsaw was beautifully rebuilt and there are no more places that resemble that story. And this unknown soldier's grave reminds me of that. It's a very strong, very powerful symbol there. And, for example, Minister Omilanowska paid attention, and rightly so, for these 20 years we have known Marshal Piłsudski on a horse before this Saski Palace I'm sure most of us don't have a photograph like this in our heads. But over the last 70 years, the next generations of Warsawians have remembered the tomb of the Unknown Soldier as a sign of destroyed Warsaw, a place of memory of Warsawians and something that could be called the heart of Poland. Because what is the heart of Warsaw is hard to say. There's Belvedere, there's a castle, there's all kinds of buildings, etc. I don't think the Saski Palace is a good building to associate it with some kind of history, patriotism, the soul of the nation or anything like that. No. That's not true at all. Like I said, most of the time it was just staff. It was simply a military staff of various troops, including our troops for 20 years of interwar time. Next thing you know, it's cost. PLN 2.4 billion. We asked how it was calculated and someone couldn't answer us very much. All we found out was that some audit firm had calculated these costs. I'm the one who's telling you there's no... One comparable building is the castle in Berlin, which cost about that much. Those of you who know how much blood he's done to the Berlins and what the controversy was about him, they can tell you about it. But it's like that's what it costs at the end. Meanwhile, our Saski Palace will cost 2.4 billion at the start of all this. Next thing you know, it's the Warsaw City Hall. Mr.Vice President of Warsaw, Mr.Michał Olszewski, on behalf of President Trzaskowski, spoke of reservations that the Warsaw authorities have. These reservations concern inter alia. Green issues. The answer to that was that of course it will be taken care of, the point is that that green will not be destroyed. The second thing that didn't find the answer was the matter of the communication system, how it would be rebuilt. The third thing that found the answer was the question of parking, because if there are to be buildings performing different functions, then there must be parking. They say it's gonna be underneath the surface and this parking lot, I understand, is at this price. And what the Warsaw City Hall wanted to do is to influence what is happening there. If I were to speak in the morning... I'm sure you're all tired today, but I should say these different things, because it's really important. I'm sorry we're talking about this at night. We should discuss this during the day, because it is a matter of not only gigantic money from the state budget, but also concerning, among other things, the issue. the seat of the Senate, which is to be located in the Brühl Palace. This building, according to professionals, can be adapted to such functions, but for now we do not know what it would look like. Questions were raised, for example. That if the Senate were there, then the senator's hotel should be there somewhere or the senators should rent rooms in the city because they're not gonna walk from here to here. Although the marshal says it's worth walking. Anyway, people would get up here in the morning, go to the Senate, well, they'd have to sit there all day, there'd be no way, like now, to use this place, get some rest for a while. I'm talking about people who are sick or during the day... It's very difficult from morning to night, I know, because I'm already another day from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. here in the Senate. It's not that simple. Here's what I'm gonna say. It was very interesting to hear from the head of our firm, Mr Adam Niemczewski, who said about a competitive project or an idea that operates and concerns the construction of the Senate headquarters here, in the whole parliament, at the very end, at the entrance from Buffo's side. That's where the twins would have been built... At the end of the long hallway, so to speak, maybe it will speak to everyone. There would be built a twin building for this and there would be senators' rooms, there would be more room for the committee, because as we know At the moment, it is difficult to book a seat for the committee. They're in trouble because the Senate is really tight and it's very hard to work here. Although it is nice here, there are marbles everywhere, etc., but it is far too tight and the comfort of work is very small. That's what it looks like. Finally, what some will accept with relief, I will say that two amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. One amendment concerns the entry of the Senate Marshal to this council I mentioned. We were very shocked that the Marshal of the Sejm was invited to the council. It is not known why, because the Sejm will not participate in these buildings A representative of the Senate Marshal was not invited. So this is one of our amendments. The Council will not have 10 members, only 11 members, and it will be composed of a representative of our marshal. The second amendment is the amendment tabled by Senator Jackowski, but we accepted it together, as if in consensus. I really liked that one. This is an amendment that will allow the President of Warsaw to look into these issues and participate in the decision-making process. As you know, such a special act provides that nothing is really in force. Here we are dealing with this thread: on top there will be a minister of culture who will supervise it, and below there will be a specially established company. Well, there will be advice, but her tasks are of an opinional nature. The council can tell itself, opinion, but she has no power at all. In fact, the entire investment will be carried out in this company. The same was true of other solutions of this kind. I've already talked about it. In terms of which we used specializations. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer, because it was really interesting. I could talk about it for a long time. I would also like to point out that there are very many Warsawans. They're still alive. For which the tomb of the Unknown Soldier is very important. No overbuilt or rebuilt buildings, no reconstructions of the Square Palace, will compensate them. And one last thing. And finally, I'm going to give you this strong argument that came out there. He may not quite sound, but he's dead. It's a question of how we're building a new monument, a class like this. Let's be honest, it wasn't a special monument, even before the war. We rebuild it completely from scratch, because there is not even a brick from all this, and it is supposed to cost PLN 2 billion 400 million. Meanwhile, we spend 120 million PLN on the protection of monuments in Poland. Well, it's in the budget. You're the one who's doing the math. I am not talking about rebuilding here, I am talking about saving the most valuable Polish monuments, which sometimes fall apart. Any one of us could tell about such monuments in our neighborhood. So here we have 100 million or 120 million to protect each year, and here we have 2.4 billion. And we know that it can be even twice as much, because it often happens with different kinds of investments. And I would like to point out this question: is the Polish state, which spends only PLN 120 million on the restoration of monuments, able to rebuild old monuments that do not exist long ago and are not really a big symbol? That's what I'm paying attention to. And one more thing that's very interesting too. It's a scale. The Saski Palace, as we watch it on the figures, looks like a very large building. But once again, he only had two floors. Well, there was a colonnade downstairs. With these buildings that already exist at the square, with a huge hotel and opera, which has been raised and is simply gigantic, this Saski Palace will not, as we think, be monumental or particularly impressive. That's all I am considering as the rapporteur of the cultural committee. Two applications were submitted: for adoption of the law without amendments and for rejection of the law. Both of them... It was 2:2, so there is a motion to adopt a law without amendments, that is the request of a minority. But as I say, none of the conclusions... evenly, none of the conclusions obtained the majority. Thanks to this, we were able to make amendments, which I am happy to say. Later, I will make my two amendments that concern... Unfortunately, they have only been prepared today, because, I must say with pain, we are at the end of this legislative chain and the fact that we are given so little time to prepare amendments, to analyze documents that come from the Sejm, etc... Once again, I would like to stress that this is a scandal. in the case of such an important law, which raises such large social disputes and controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u453	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, the agreement at the committee meeting was that five senators attended the committee meeting. In fact, the motion to reject this law was not received by a majority and the proposal to adopt the law without amendments was not obtained by a majority, which is what Senator Barbara Zdrojewska said. Me and Senator Hamerski, as the applicant for the bill without amendments, followed the following conditions. We are aware that all the elements of this law are not able to fully describe the complex investment process such as the reconstruction of this palace: from the formal legal side, in the preparation of investments, all issues related to real estate, transformations, organization of the special purpose company, supervision of this company, financing. This is, High Izbo, a very complicated investment process. Just years ago, I worked as a real estate manager in a company that set up a special purpose company to rebuild one historic building in Warsaw, and I can tell you that the workbooks themselves with documents relating to this investment, a lot of thickness was over 400. It's like paperwork. Well, unfortunately, it's a complicated process, and I'm aware of the scale of the process. Therefore, in such a law it is difficult to predict in advance all aspects of what may happen, and who has any experience in this field, realizes that perhaps to this law, as it will become fully a law, we will return because we will need some modifications, because all the circumstances cannot be predicted. And this is the first statement. The second statement is this. I myself belong to those who believe that the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and those tenements on Royal Street should be rebuilt. I say this as a historian, I say this as former President of the Warsaw Capital City Council at the time when Lech Kaczyński was the president of the city, and I also say this as a person who is also dealing with the area of culture in his professional activities. And I'd like to say it like that. I'm afraid for this discussion about rebuilding the Saski Palace I'm talking about the Saski Palace, because it's about the Brühl Palace, which was probably more architecturally valuable, that's the general assessment of historians. It is a rococo palace in its final form, with some additions introduced by the architect Pniewski at a time when before the war it was the seat of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. High Izbo, there is also a bit of a shadow of politics for this discussion. And I must say here immediately that to my surprise I did not take the position of President Olszewski, who represented the capital city of Warsaw during the committee meeting, as a diametrically opposite or overall opposite reconstruction of the Saski Palace. I will say more: of course, there were certain conditions that the city would have seen in this reconstruction, but I think most of these conditions are to be met. And I think that this investment can be consummated in the cooperation of the government administration with the local government, because the war between these... well, the war in quotes, the dispute between these two areas would, in my opinion, lead to a stalemate situation. Solutions would be unfavorable. Why does Warsaw's capital city, in my opinion, have such a soft attitude towards this reconstruction? Why doesn't there be any primal or primal opposition? For a very simple reason. The voices of the Warsaw people are also divided, including the voters of the current administration, President Trzaskowski, and the present authorities of the capital city of Warsaw. It is worth recalling that the Saski Palace, the original of which was the 17th-century Morstina Palace, was built in December 1944, and thus as part of the repression of the post-insurgents... We are now in the period of commemoration of the Warsaw Uprising; 77 years ago lasted another, fifth day of the Uprising. So as a result of these repressions, as part of Hitler's order to destroy the city of the hero, that is, the entire infrastructure of the city, the palace was mined and blown up. There's a trace in one of the transmissions that suggests It's maybe even a bit of a legend. That German soldier, the bomber who passed the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace... The whole crew was going through it, but it's about the guy who mined the part of the colonnade. And this bomber out of respect, because it's the grave of an unknown soldier, out of respect for the army at all. Wermacht did it. He didn't mess it up. And in this way, this fragment of the colonnade, which is not in this historical arrangement, because it was subject to some work after the end of the war, was not blown up. After the end of World War II, the authorities of the Polish People's Republic took into account the reconstruction of the western feathers of Saski Square, renamed Victory Square. In 1946, according to the design of the architect Zygmunt Stręgński, a reconstruction of the surviving fragment of the arcades of the building with the Unknown Soldier's Tomb was carried out and the first design competition was organized, taking into account the issue of rebuilding the entire building, but no action was taken. It is worth mentioning here that Professor Zachwatowicz was in favour of rebuilding the Saski Palace. It is also worth mentioning that other architects from the Office for Reconstruction of the Capital could not imagine not to rebuild this complex as part of the reconstruction of Warsaw. Unfortunately, these works have been abandoned, they have been stopped. And it is worth recalling that this was part of a broader political action, because it was the resolution of the Legislative Sejm of July 2, 1949 on the reconstruction of the Royal Castle, so the communist authorities of the time had made such a decision to rebuild the castle. We know that the castle has not been rebuilt for political reasons. I am talking about the Royal Castle. And when Edward Gierek came to power as a result of December 1970, in 1971 the decision to rebuild the Royal Castle in Warsaw was made as part of the discharge of social tension. There were collected funds, there were trips from all over the country, and the subsequent stages of reconstruction of the castle were very closely reported in the media. So there was a lot of traffic around it. The castle was rebuilt, which was eventually included in the UNESCO heritage list. The idea of rebuilding the Saski Palace was restored in the 1970s. Another architectural competition allowing the possibility of reconstruction of non-existent monuments was organized. Even the winning project of architects Bogdan Gniewski and Bolesław Kosecki has been selected, but this project has not yet been realized. After 1989, it could be said that this was happening cyclically. The issue of rebuilding the Saski Palace has returned. And here it is worth mentioning that the planning guidelines from the time of President Święcicki, concerning the development of this area, provided for the possibility of rebuilding the Saski Palace. President Paweł Piskorski's administration has also taken some action in this area. The directional decision to rebuild the palace was made by the sleeper. President of the capital city of Warsaw Lech Kaczyński. After all, in this respect there was a resolution of the City Council of Warsaw. Far-reaching work has been done... I'm not going to go into the details of what the scope of the work was right now. Madam President Zdrojewska mentioned this stage here. The fact is that at that time the possibility of installing the city hall in the rebuilt palace was foreseen, because, as you know, the capital city of Warsaw has its offices very dismembered and divided with the voivodeship office, in different places individual offices are scattered and one central place is missing... Well, you know what City Hall is. In addition, excavation works took place here before the reconstruction process. Very interesting objects have been encountered. That's the state of it when it comes to the history of reconstruction. Main objection against the opponents of the reconstruction of the palace So notabene amazes me so quite zealous and, I would say, rather aggressive tone of opponents of this project or the hostility of some to rebuild The point is that the drama of the war, which is now in the state of Piłsudski Square, will be destroyed. Meanwhile, very few people, unfortunately, remember what Warsaw looked like before the outbreak of World War II, what the city looked like, the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements that were on Piłsudski Square The Great Theatre was at the same time. This architectural condition was one of the most characteristic views or points of the capital city of Warsaw. In my deep conviction, the reconstruction of the Saski Palace in Piłsudski Square will not disturb the historical narrative about the history of Poland, because this is the main ideological motive of opponents of the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. On the contrary, it will add to the contention of contention for the victory of evil. Thus, we will not accept the consequences of World War II. What is more, I will say this: we are dealing with a certain, if we look from the point of view of the substance of the city, a rather strange situation, such that in the place of the historical building, which dates back to the 17th century, we now have the voidness of the Saski Garden, the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The fragment of the city, which for several hundred years was armed with 2 palaces, is now simply deprived of them. The reconstruction of the Saski Palace and the Brühl Palace is as much a part of the reconstruction of the capital city of Warsaw as possible. It should also be recalled that the tomb of the Unknown Soldier was created before World War II. It is not that it was located there in 1945 and that it is related to some symbolism. This is a closed whole and a concept. It was located in the arcades of the Saski Palace in 1925. According to the guidelines formulated for the reconstruction of the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, this was the assumption So it was to symbolize not a tomb, but a monument of glory of architectural design. That was the original, and that was the idea of placing the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier here. It is worth paying particular attention to the fact that the present form of the monument is only partially authentic and is the result, as the experts emphasize this issue, the post-war cleaning of debris and securing the destroyed arcades of the colonnade of the Saski Palace. And here formulated thesis on the threat of the fundamental values of the unique heritage of this place have no justification in the history of the most valuable monument in the country, the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. I would like to draw this attention to the High House. Now I would like to say that this proposal was made at the moment when the motion for rejection was also filed. We came from the assumption that although some amendments, as we ourselves believe, are worth introducing into this law, it is more important that the law be adopted. This is more important than making these amendments. This was the genesis of a minority proposal, i.e. the adoption of a law without amendments. And finally, I'd like to make an autocorrect like this... I have to do this formally, so I am making the amendment that Madam Zdrojewska was talking about... Well, however, as a former Warsaw local governmentman I am a supporter of certain, I hope, harmonious cooperation in this work of the city authorities and central authorities. I mean, let's call it the communion of decisions that allow the inauguration or the start of the reconstruction of this palace. I therefore submit to the Marshal's staff a modified version of the amendment which I tabled at the committee's meeting and which the committee adopted because it is formally impossible to do so in the form of an autocorrection, it must be formally submitted and followed by the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u455	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Marek Borowski to see Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u456	No, I had a question for Senator Jackowski if he wouldn't withdraw his application for the bill without amendment, given that he's making an amendment, but he's already beaten me and withdrawn me, as I understand... [[No, I mean. I didn't formally withdraw...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, that's what I'm asking. Then why don't you withdraw the senator? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr. Marshal Borowski's question... I was just consulting with Senator Hamerski, who... [[He changed his mind.]] Oh, he changed his mind. If he has changed, then I can withdraw the minority's motion to adopt the law without amendments, expressing the hope that in this House, however, we will pass the bill together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u458	Good. And the other thing. It won't be... it'll be a question of a little malice... [[Voice from the room: Let's hope...]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] It's so small. Really. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Namely, Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: But it's a good one.]] ...the senator has justified the request of the minority for a long time and... I understand that this was already a statement in the discussion? [[Voice from the room: Yes, well...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u459	Not really... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, this is my answer. Senator President Zdrojewska presented the position of the committee, including certain thesis... [[Three times less.]] Excuse me? [[Three times less.]] No, no... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Look at the protocol. Ten minutes longer than me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, let's put an end to this stupid, honest discussion. I'm driving... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...this session. Senator Zdrojewska has been reporting to the majority for a very long time, in proportion to that time I adjusted the speaking time of Senator Jackowski. Let me decide who's reporting how much. Let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u461	Yes. During the committee meeting, I presented this view, which I have already said several times, namely that I believe that the palace should be rebuilt. I tried to justify this on a substantive level, not going into a very detailed discourse anymore, because this is not some scientific seminar on this subject. Let me just say, Mr. Marshal, that the dispute is in the very community of professors, art historians. Prof. Małgorzata Omilanowska, Minister of Culture in the Government of Donald Tusk, signed a petition or a counter-rebuilding position, presenting her arguments, and in this group you are also Prof. Popręcka, an outstanding art historian, whom I know and appreciate very much. He's really a top-notch scientist and expert on the issue he's dealing with. But on the other hand, you are Prof. Juliusz Chrościcki, also a prominent expert in the issues of the 17th and 18th centuries, and you are Prof. Tadeusz Bernatowicz, also a well-known and valued art historian. So I'm showing that these disputes are in the very environment. And that's why it seems to me that I had to justify why I'm in favour of this proposal. Senator Hamerski and I are in favour of adopting a law without amendment. Well, that's because we're in favour of rebuilding the palace, and if so, we had to make an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u462	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka. [[Thank you very much, Mr...]] A question for the senator? [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Zdrojewska.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u463	Senator, given the 400-year history of this place and this object, which is actually gone... During the committee's deliberations, were the results of the studies and the results of the archaeological studies carried out at that site presented to committee members, senators, and for which these reconstruction work was not undertaken?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u464	We did not discuss this aspect, although I, as a self-government officer, like Senator Jackowski, know perfectly well how archaeological research can delay any construction. And this is a place where we can definitely expect a lot of interesting things. Although... But it's a joke, really, 'cause it's so late... Although I know such cases in Poland when a cemetery was dug up in the middle of the city, a medieval cemetery, with 17-story burials, and it was simply buried because doing anything with it would be... Nevertheless, this will probably not be the case. But I think the Minister will answer this question in detail. Minister Gawin is no longer... Minister Gawin was at a cultural committee meeting. Because, remind you, the Ministry of Culture will oversee this. So, unfortunately, I can't answer the senator, and I'd love to. But it's a very important question. And especially important if we were to make parking parking under Piłsudski Square. Well, that's what we're gonna expect. So if there are any questions for the minister, then maybe the senator will repeat the question. [[Thank you very much. In any case, I know that these matters were not discussed and not discussed at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u465	Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill's draft...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u466	It has been pointed out here that if you allow me to withdraw this request... [[You're welcome.]] We'll do it formally, Mr. Marshall. I'm addressing Marshal Borowski. At the committee meeting. It's by the book. I have expressed my intention that this minority request will be withdrawn, but we can formally do so tomorrow at 8.15 p.m. at the committee meeting. Thank you. I'm sorry I took the floor, but just to clarify...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u467	Please, it's okay. The bill was filed by the president. The President's position was presented during parliamentary work by the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprocka. Does the President's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In some ways, I have been called to speak and with the greatest pleasure briefly, if the High Senate permits, I will take a stand on this very important law. In fact, the High House is leaning over a special law today, on the basis of it The President expresses his deep conviction in this matter. Special buildings will be rebuilt for Warsaw as well as for the whole of Poland, i.e. Saski Palace, Brühl Palace and tenements on Royal Street in Warsaw. Marshal Pilsudski's square together with the Saski Palace and Brühl's Palace was one of the most important places in Warsaw, referred to by the patriotic terms of the "real heart" of the Independent "Patriotic heart of Poland." After Poland regained its independence, this place was a very important military parade, all kinds of patriotic manifestations or events of a national or religious nature. After regaining independence, the building of the Saski Palace and Brühl Palace quickly became buildings used by the most important institutions, in particular by the General Staff of the Polish Army and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Madam President Zdrojewska, in describing the proceedings of the committee and the work, stressed very clearly the stage when Poland was under partitions, and the history of these buildings at that time, especially in the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th century. Ladies and gentlemen, this seems to be a perverse argument, because this is a historical argument, which refers to the whole situation, to all buildings in Warsaw. Right? The palace in which the head of state, today called the Presidential Palace, stands today had a different name. And to mention today's square of Marshal Piłsudski, we should mention the Council of St. Alexandra with a giant, 70-metre tower, built just to anoint this place in some way and point out who dominates this area. That's why there's history here, especially in the 20th century... I, of course, will no longer repeat the arguments of Senator Jackowski, because he perfectly pointed out these arguments, but we are talking about a place which was the royal palace. The fact that then, yes and no different, the history of the state has worked out, in no way does the shadow lie on these places. Attempts to rebuild the buildings in the western feathers destroyed by the German occupier... What must be emphasized very clearly, the demolition of the city took place in December 1944 in a fully conscious action of destruction of the city several months after the collapse of the Warsaw Uprising. The idea of reconstruction, of which the senator also spoke, was also mentioned at the committee meeting, was very strongly raised in the post-war years. Then he went back to sleep with all his power. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński. And today, thanks to President Andrzej Duda's initiative, on which the High Senate is currently discussing, I think we are closest to the implementation of this investment, which also requires emphasis on an investment with broad social support. At the committee meeting both in the Seym and in the Senate there were representatives of the social side, the Saxons Association 2018 and those who argued for this support, but it was in the context of a certain anecdote, although important. When it was conducted by Gazeta Wyborcza Stołeczna, a survey on what are the most desirable investments in Warsaw, it turned out that the reconstruction of the Saski Palace was in third place, ahead of others. investments in further subway lines. It is of course a kind of symbolic issue, but it is for citizens And it's not just for Warsawians that it's important. Without a doubt, the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and its tenants at the Royal Street is an investment that creates a bridge between generations, a bridge between the generations of the 20th century, of course a generation after the war, us today, but also those generations that will come after us. Not without a reason, it follows directly from the text of the bill, it is planned that, in addition to the space for the Senate designed at the Brühl Palace, to this thread, you will allow, in a moment I will return and the section dedicated to the Mazowieckie office to make extensive use of the rebuilt place for cultural, educational and social useful activities. This is one of the most important elements of this investment. In this context it is clear that the beneficiaries of the Act are both Poles, Warsawers in such a historical and patriotic spirit, but also the capital city of Warsaw. Here, in several sentences, Mr Olszewski's demands were summarised, I apologize, in fact, for the city of Warsaw, represented by Mr Olszewski. This discussion was held both in the Seym and in the Senate. I would like to assure you from this point on that these demands are met. Issues concerning the expropriation or exchange of real estate between today's Marshal Pilsudski Square and the real estate at Bank Square 3/5 are a matter fully implemented, as requested by the city, this is reflected in the bill. The issue of infrastructure is also written directly, because it includes investment, it is both the reconstruction of road infrastructure and several underground parking lots, because in fact for Warsaw it is a very, very necessary investment in this place. The issue of the Senate headquarters here. Well, the High House absolutely does not need to be reminded of who is the initiator of this. In this context, I must mention the name of Marshal Stanisław Karczewski, but also mention Mr Marshal Borusewicz and mention to the senators that Mr Andrzej Duda invited Mr. Andrzej Duda to the palace to meet Mr. Marshal Grodzki and during this meeting. I don't think it's going to be any abuse to use such a phrase, but kindness was for this idea. [[That's a strong word.]] Kindness? I don't know if that's a very strong word, but I'm gonna let myself use it. I'm getting to the technical issue. The preparation of the investment related to the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in the opinion of the President should be based on the specialty, which first of all introduces rigors of time, simplification in administrative and judicial procedures, indicates as an entity which will issue key decisions for the investment process, the Mazowieckie voivode. The bill, and this is also a thread brought up by the president, is a statuette of the recovery council. It will be an advisory body of the Minister of Culture. Let me just give you this short answer: the amendment concerning the representative of the Marshal of the Sejm was an amendment which appeared at the seymical stage. And from this point on, I would absolutely like to assure support for the amendment, especially because of its nature... It is obvious to the presidential office that it is desirable to have a representative on this council, probably on an analogy basis, the Marshal of the Senate, this amendment is absolutely legitimate. To conclude, I will say that if there are questions, I will be very happy to answer them in detail. The implementation of this investment will be entrusted to the special purpose vehicle and the main issues will be settled in a contract concluded between the special purpose vehicle and the Minister of Culture. There will be really, because it cannot be regulated directly by the law, regulated issues related to the investment, with the materials used, well-defined costs, regulated issues of liability, control. High Senate, let me end with just one thought. It is undoubtedly an idea that can unite different environments around the common goal of rebuilding the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements on Royal Street. Undoubtedly, the cooperation of many bodies and communities is necessary in order for it to be carried out smoothly within the prescribed time frame by 2028. And in this spirit I ask the High Senate to support the act adopted on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u469	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay on the stand, or I'm sure there'll be questions. Senator Adam Szejnfeld asks the first question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you Senator Szejnfeld in remote mode... [[Thank you very much...]] Is it? Can he hear us? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u470	I tried to turn on the microphone, but it's on. Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question, in my opinion, important. Of course, this law, as it has already been said and probably will be speaking, causes a great deal of controversy, including substantive, historical, architectural. But the economic, financial thread is important, especially as the Polish state is currently facing a huge crisis related to the effects of the pandemic, and we do not know what the financial consequences of this future will be. Billions are needed to ensure the health of citizens, not to invest in the past. But we know that every year the Polish government, for at least five years, transfers over PLN 2 billion to party propaganda in the media. This is about what this reconstruction would cost, although unofficial estimates are about the amount of PLN 2 times higher, 4 billion. But by now, more than five billion have been allocated to government propaganda. I would therefore like to ask the question: since the reconstruction of the Saski Palace is, as I understand it, so important for the current government, could we count on you to represent the President, of course, but I understand that the President is in contact with the Polish Government on this matter, for example. in the following year, or in the following years, of the billions of zlotys dedicated to party propaganda in the public media and will he hand over this money or will he turn to Parliament to transfer this money to rebuild the Saski Palace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u471	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, it is important to refer to the senator's comments on the various positions in this area. Because I have not yet said in my speech about one matter, that in fact both experts present at the committee's meeting presented a very negative position. However, this is not an exclusive position, and I would even say that it is a minority position. As far as I know, the Senate also received a statement from people of science, prominent professors from institutes of history, culture, art, representing the widely understood humanities, very clearly this project and the idea of supporting. Besides, he mentioned it by mentioning a few professors, Senator Jackowski. It is undoubtedly difficult to say that it is an investment in the past. As I pointed out in my speech, it is really the implementation of constitutional values related to caring for national identity and heritage, and at the same time directly in the act are indicated the objectives and institutions that will take place in these buildings. The costs, actually planned for over PLN 2 billion, are... It must be borne in mind that these are costs spread over about 10 years, and in fact the precise cost estimate will result from the agreement concluded by the Minister of Culture with the special purpose company and, as is clear from the bill, will be secured mechanisms... not only how these costs will be edited, but also what control mechanisms will be in this regard. In fact, it is clear from the law that the financing of this initiative will come from the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u473	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u474	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, of course I maintain the attention of all senators with high costs of this investment. But given the 400-year history of this facility, and given the results of the archaeological research, which say that the state of the foundations of the Saski Palace is very bad, please tell me on the plan of which the palace will be rebuilt. On the plan of this Baroque palace from the middle of the 18th century, that is, from the time when it was owned August II Strong, that is, the true Saski Palace, or on the plan of this classicistic palace from the mid-19th century, which was largely rebuilt, changed, partially demolished by the Tsar's possessor? So, which plan are we sticking to, given all the circumstances I just said? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! He's gonna go a little further on the question of archaeological research. In fact, they were conducted at these sites of archaeological research, they were discovered sub-basements, but then these areas were buried back. The law on this matter does not directly prejudge. The question of how these investments will be implemented, on the basis of which the plan will be shaped on the basis of the agreement I mentioned between the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the special purpose company. It's coming directly from the bill. And, what is very important, the advisory body, which is precisely dealing with historical, architectural issues, will be the Council of Housing. In fact, the entities that are entitled to indicate their representatives in this Council are the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshal of the Sejm, I hope that there will also be a representative of the Marshal of the Senate, the President of the Capital City of Warsaw. At the head of the council is the main conservator of monuments. There is a statutory requirement for these representatives to be prominent experts. And here will be the role of this body in the Minister's advice. The draft agreement between the company and the minister will then be proposed by the Minister and these issues will be clarified there. Because it's not a matter to regulate directly by law. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u476	Thank you very much. Question... [[I'm so sorry. Can I ask you a question?]] So this is gonna be a question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u477	Then, Minister, it may not really be the de facto reconstruction of the Suski Palace... [[Voice from the room: Saski.]] Saski, I'm so sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Saski Palace. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u478	Mrs. Senator, it is only clear that the definition of investment in reconstruction is clearly indicated. It's an art. 2, which indicates the reconstruction of the Saski Palace and Brühl Palace according to the external architectural shape that these objects had on 31 August 1939.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u479	You're asking Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I just wanted to ask... Because the minister said that the bill included the demands of the capital city of Warsaw in the context of the exchange. As far as I'm concerned, it's not in the bill. Perhaps it is only the amendment that will be tabled that some opinions should be converted into arrangements... Maybe it'll actually consummate the expectations of the capital city.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u481	Senator! High Senate! These are two different issues. The issue of the conversion of expropriation, the method of establishing compensation results directly from the bill and here is the postulate of the capital city of Warsaw, which Mr Olszewski did not question at any stage. The project was consulted with the city before the transfer to the Sejm, there is correspondence in this regard, and there was also relevant information in the explanatory memorandum. And the question of opinion, which the senator asked to mention, is the issue of the influence of the president of the social city of Warsaw... Today, in its present form, the Act states that the special purpose company, before obtaining the decision on the location which the voivode will issue, is obliged to consult the President, but actually during the work of the committee, President Olszewski on behalf of the capital city of Warsaw suggested that the opinions be converted into a form of agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u482	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u483	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At 9:49 p.m., when we're discussing the construction of the Saski Palace... It's hard not to take advantage of an opportunity like this. Well, in August 1914, 90% Kalisz's buildings were completely bombed by the Germans, only historic churches were left. Kalisz was rebuilt in the interwar years, by the efforts of the inhabitants of Kalisz, but also by the Polish state. There's got to be two objects left that haven't been rebuilt. And I have this question: who persuaded the president to take this initiative? When I was president, I was also persuaded to take care of these two monuments, but somehow I didn't make it. However, I would like to know the answer to the question, was it one person, or was it many people? 'Cause I've had these kind of advisors, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As I pointed out in my speech and as indicated in the speeches of the senators, the issue of rebuilding the Saski Palace was discussed In fact, since the early post-war years. In the first place, Mr Zachwatowicz should be mentioned in this context. Then it returned in the 1990's, and its strongest advocate was the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, when concrete actions were already taken within the capital city of Warsaw. Today, due to historical significance, but also because of objectives going beyond the activities of the capital city of Warsaw, such as the use of one of the main buildings, the Brühl Palace, to the seat of the Senate, it is already transferred to the operation of the State Treasury. Mr President declared his support for the idea of rebuilding in 2018 during the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. There was a declaration signed by your President on 11 November, which is widely available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u485	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Szejnfeld, who sits remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u486	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I am not asking as much as I would like to repeat the question, because Minister Paprock was polite not to answer my question. She was talking about some costs that are dubious, broken down over the years, and that's not what I asked. I asked one thing about the fact that the government spends the money of citizens, public, budget of over PLN 2 billion, for the purposes of one party, for the propaganda of this party, propaganda of the ruling party in the media. And I said, "Is this the case?" The question to the President's Minister will influence the government, instead of spending public money on party propaganda in the media, will he use it to rebuild the Saski Palace if the government thinks it's so important? I would like an answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u487	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u488	High Izbo! Dear Senator, As you know perfectly well, because you yourself have pointed this out, I have the honour to represent the President of the Republic, Mr Andrzej Duda, in the legislative process concerning the Law on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements on Royal Street. From this project, and now from the law, the formula for budgeting this investment is clear. As regards budgetary issues and plans, let me just mention that the sole initiative concerning the state budget lies on the side of the Council of Ministers. Let me finish my answer on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u489	Thank you very much. [[We're done with the questions.]] The questions are over. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u490	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda very much for his proposed bill and for the declaration signed a few years ago about the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements on Royal Street. I would also like to thank Minister Małgorzata Paprocka for the extremely thorough preparation of this law, for her great care, also for the time you have devoted to consultations, talks. Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to thank your committee president for holding the committee meeting on 3 August and thank you for having withdrawn his motion to reject the bill. Because this bill is important, it's important. The Act talks about special solutions for the reconstruction of these facilities. But before I start talking about substantive matters, I hope so. I'll quote a diary: "I was at the Brühl Palace today." Every time I entered this palace, his interior was a delight to me. What's it look like now? Downstairs, in the Vestibule, the gorgeous experiential seats were put on a big pile, along with carpets, paintings, tables. Windows and glass doors broken. Empty bottles everywhere. The governor's office is about Fischer's image of misery and despair. The types of SS destroy everything, leaving behind a pigsty and chaos simply brings pleasure. Sturmbannführer Dirlewanger, one of the butchers of Warsaw, commander of this horde, sits in a semi-dark, furnished with expensive furniture. The SS penal company turned the Brühl Palace into a pigsty. On the same day, the author wrote: "Hitler gave the order to level Warsaw to the ground." This is the bankruptcy of our Eastern policy, and by tearing down Warsaw, we place this policy as a gravestone. These are the records in the journal of Captain Wilm Hosenfeld's Wehrmacht, who saved the life of Szpilman and Fr. Cutters, of 11 August 1944 Soon after. But long after the Warsaw Uprising, the Saxon Palace, Brühl Palace and neighbouring tenements were blown up in a barbaric, brutal and inhuman way. About the reconstruction of the Saski Palace In short, we know what objects we're discussing. The opinions are divided. Some are for it, others are against it. Experts and prominent architects give arguments for and make arguments against. We also heard these arguments during the committee meeting. But the voices of the locals that the Minister was talking about are also important. It is worth recalling that the plebiscite of the Supercity, the plebiscite of the Wyborcza Gasete of 8 May 2021. No, recently carried out He showed Warsaw what kind of Warsaw would like to have. In third place was the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, in second place The fight against smog in the first place Green Marszałkowska Street. It's amazing, it's surprising, it's also for those who want to rebuild. I didn't think it would be such a high place to rebuild the Saski Palace. The reconstruction of the Saski Palace is also wanted by veterans. For me, the magazine of the World Union of National Army Soldiers is extremely valuable. I've got it right here. I'll give it to you. The combatants fully accept it, they ask for the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. Also a recent survey among Poles Not only among the inhabitants of Warsaw, but among Poles at all, he showed that this project is very successful. As many as 49% support the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, 24% is against and 27% There's no opinion on that. That's a lot. Well, this idea has a lot of public support. Also scientists... Madam President quoted a letter of experts, professors. Some are for it, others are against it. But in addition to the thanks I have sent to the President and Minister Paprocka as well as to the President, I would also like to express my thanks to the representatives of the capital city of Warsaw. Well, I've been running a very pragmatic, very substantive conversation with the capital city for a long time. We designate areas for which there are certain doubts and disputes, but also proposals for solutions, such as in the case of a change of location of the town hall, so that it is not in the Saski Palace. Well, the town hall stays... Warsaw's request is that Bank Square 3/5 be the seat of the President of Warsaw, and that is of course what we agreed to. A little while ago, the question was how we will communicate with the President of Warsaw. I think that as far as 3 other areas are concerned about transport, communication, as well as green, we also agreed. I'm sure we'll do our utmost to ensure that we take care of the green, the overcrowding of the trees, the planting of the trees, and the care of the environment, which is really going to be very green. We would also like to see objects in this palace, in this feather, which the Minister has already mentioned. We could not exactly enumerate the objects and institutions that would be there in the act, but we want such a museum of Polish history in the pill to be there. So that it can be shown to all delegations who come to Poland. Show how Poland can be proud of its history, and show the true story in 15 minutes to delegates who will arrive there. There will be a place dedicated to Fryderyk Chopin, who lived there for 7 years and his first compositions were created there. We will want to dedicate the place of Maria Skłodowska-Curie, who is known in the world as Maria Curie, and few people realize that she was Polish. We do not list objects that will be inside, because the interior will be able to arrange and adapt to the needs. The Minister said that this was a reconstruction of historic objects, but above all a reconstruction coming to the future, meeting the next generations. This is an investment that is That's what I think. Our duty in relation to past generations, but above all it is for future generations. It's not an investment for us, it's not an investment for me, it's an investment for the next generation. The guarantee that this investment will be realised is the young people who have focused on the independent office and have become extremely involved in this idea. And thank you very cordially for that, here in the present part. I know I don't have a lot of time, but I'd like to use this time also to devalue fake news that is circulating in our public space and that is very damaging to this initiative. Mr. Marshal, because I see that despite this late season there is a great deal of interest, it is now, Mr. Marshal, that I offer to hold a conference. In a few months, when we're even better prepared. Although there was also a charge that things were thoughtless, not consulted. The consultation lasts 77 years, talks and diwags about whether to rebuild or not to rebuild, it lasts for many years. How can we do that? Well, very interesting questions, Senator. I could answer them, but I'm not committing to them right now, because you also referred to archaeological discoveries that were carried out and showed some historic objects, also included in the register of monuments. You were talking about the foundations here. We want to make an educational path there so we can see these foundations. It's about getting young people to come... Not just young people, because if we retire, we'll be happy to come too. Fake news one, ladies and gentlemen, is that the tomb of the Unknown Soldier will be destroyed. It won't be destroyed... [[Mr. Marshal...]] It won't be touched. The grave of the Unknown Soldier will not even be touched during the entire construction. The honorable will be worth all the time and celebrations will be able to take place. Can I use the next five minutes or later? [[Okay.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[No, no, it's just an exception...]] I'd like to... [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, but some would like to go home.]] Okay, four more minutes. [[Anyway...]] I don't mind if somebody goes home. Yeah, well... [[Mr. Marshal will report for five minutes and...]] The second time, five minutes. You're welcome. [[There you go.]] Right away, right? 'Cause I'm gonna use those five minutes anyway. Whether it's now or later, but I'm gonna use it. Fake news 2nd: Prof. Jan Zachwatowicz and Prof. Piotr Biański did not seek after World War II to rebuild the Saski Palace. The Minister has already spoken of this. We know that, we also have documentation for that. Fake news three: The Senate has its seat. He doesn't have his headquarters. We use the courtesy of the Sejm and all these rooms, including this hall and all other rooms, belong to the Sejm. I considered it as a marshal of the previous term very carefully, we carried out very thorough analyses. Anything here will be a really inefficient prosthesis, it will be unfunctional, because there is very little space and we will not get an additional large area here. Believe me, this is of little benefit to the Senate, that's what I'd call it. Another: During the construction process access to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier will be impossible. It'll be possible all the time. It is often reported that we are rebuilding the building of Skorcov. Ladies and gentlemen, this is due to some flaws in history, because renovation... It says in the bill that it will be the reconstruction of the facades of August 31, 1939. They were designed... Besides, I was just showing you how beautiful these buildings are. Of course, someone may not like them, it's a matter of taste, one of them likes them, others don't like them. I like them very much, they're extremely attractive, I'd say, beautiful. Idzikowski designed them, one of the best architects in Polish history. And another thing: money. They arouse huge emotions like all the money, and our raises, and the money to rebuild. We are becoming more and more rich, more and more wealthy, we can afford it, we should be able to afford it. In other countries In neighbouring countries, but also in other European countries This type of reconstruction was carried out, and so can we. I can only say that we think very seriously... And this is the beginning of a fund to rebuild various other monuments destroyed not only during World War II. That's what Senator Bubbles was talking about. Perhaps Kalisz will also be included in the list of reconstructions and investments. I am a strong supporter of the reconstruction of places historically... Of course there were also German troops and Russian troops, but in the interwar period Polishness was formed, independence was created, our independence was forged. All the celebrations, beautiful, wonderful with Joseph Piłsudski, were held there. I encourage you to vote in favour. These unconvinced or unconvinced opponents, please abstain. Once again, I thank you for having withdrawn the motion to reject this law, because this makes it possible to introduce the amendments in question, there will probably be even more of them. Thank you very much and I encourage you to vote for this law. Mr. Marshal, I support my declaration that in September, in October, we will hold a conference where we will discuss details, details. We will also talk about proposals for what should be found there. We have a very wide range of proposals. Please bear in mind that internal spaces will be able to be changed, arranged in relation to expectations, needs, also the needs of the next generations, which will plan their interiors and means at their discretion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u491	Thank you very much. Exactly five minutes. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have two amendments, which are my amendments, and not the committee's, and for this reason I wanted to take the floor, although I was the rapporteur. I'm handing over an amendment to the bill to your marshal. There's 39 of them. There are legislative amendments that clean up the bill prepared by our Senate office. For the consolation of tomorrow's committee meetings, all I'm going to say is that they're supposed to be accepted in one vote... [[Voice from the room: Lock.]] Yeah, lock it down. The second amendment is as follows: The construction project for the building to be dedicated to the Senate Chancellery is agreed with the Senate Chancellery for the architectural and construction project. Mr. Marshal Karczewski assured us that everything would definitely be agreed, but... we trust, but we suggest that we write it down, because it is very important. Well, we can't imagine that there would be a Senate building that the Senate has absolutely no influence on. And we really don't know who's gonna be in about five or whatever years, maybe sooner... who's gonna do it. So that I make this second amendment. I'd also like to refer to a few things, because they're really funny here... You say, for example, that the city of Warsaw does not protest so much. I would like to say that if you wanted to invest 2.5 billion government money from your taxes in Wrocław, I suspect that no one would say a bad word. Well, so much money invested in the city centre... Notabene Warsaw is a double winner because I remind you that President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, although she wanted to, did not rebuild the Saski Palace and did not move the town hall there. Why? Because there was a crisis and she decided to use the money to build the subway. I wouldn't have done the same thing. I wouldn't have rebuilt the Saski Palace. I'd have invested in the subway. So see what a fantastic situation Warsaw is in right now. Then she didn't build the Saski Palace, and now she's got the subway and she's gonna have the Saski Palace. And now I'm saying "but." I'm paying attention to something like this, and that's the second thing that... I'm already at that age that I remember rebuilding the Royal Castle and I remember what the game propaganda was like, because it was... no matter how we judge it, it's okay... I think it was okay after a while, but I know the voices in cities like Wroclaw and Legnica, where I lived at the time. No, I've already lived in Wroclaw... I remember how bad it was to look at it in a city that was still in ruins. Really. You know Sausage Street if you were in Wroclaw In the early 1990's, she was still carrying signs of war, so she was ruined. And in the 1970s... in the 1970s Gierek rebuilt the Royal Castle and laughed that not only after the war all Poland was rebuilding the capital, for bricks and trams, and various things, machines, etc. they were transported to Warsaw, but later all of Poland rebuilt this Royal Castle. I think I've got my own brick around here somewhere, so I co-financed it too. So that I note that it turned out a little bit, because at first it wasn't so well rated. Then there were huge claims to Gierek that he had undertaken such an expensive investment at a time when the state could not afford it. And here we have the problem that, in view of what is happening to our budget right now, an investment for 2.5 billion, and we can expect that the first years will look like the company that operates in Baranów... Years go by, we look at what's going on out there, and there's nothing going on. Well, really, Mr. Marshal... And those who work in this company, they make great money and they're doing great. I hope it's not gonna be like this here, or rather it's gonna be something, and it's not gonna be something. Unfortunately, this is what it looks like in Poland these days. And one last thing. It's a little bit of a corrigendum, because... I made a memo from our culture committee meeting. Minister Omilanowska told the committee that she had met with Ms Krystyna Zakhwatowicz, the daughter of Prof. Zakhwatowicz. And that's exactly what she said: Minister, Marshal, stop calling Professor Zachwatowicz because he talked about it 70 years ago, he said it a long time ago, and he's already dead. I remind you that today, we are now moving in the world among politicians who... We have politicians who are in one party today, and the next day they're in the other party and they're saying something completely different. Such a reference to what someone once said is not fair. Professor Zachwatowicz is dead, and it is unknown what his attitude would be today, so that he can rather... The point is not to plead, but to say that he felt that way at the time. Let me remind you that not everything is so clear, too. I'm going back to the Venetian Card. If you read it carefully, you can see that it clearly says that the locks are not being rebuilt. And there's an exception that's probably talking about what's just been destroyed, for example. as a result of war or something. And so it happened with the Old Town in Warsaw. And so it happened that it was accepted and included on the list of world heritage It was because it was a restoration to the inhabitants of what they still had in front of them. They remembered what they saw five years before. And it's been appreciated. The Venetian card refers to these types of cases when we rebuild... But today, as I have pointed out, the third generation remembers not the Saska Palace... Almost none of the living remember him, these are really individuals, while the next generations, these three postwar generations remember the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. And I'll say yes... No one said anything like that at the committee meeting that he would be destroyed or anything, but he wouldn't be in the same shape as he is today. And today, I remind you, it is just a symbol of destroyed Warsaw. I'll vote against it, Mr. Marshal. I have asked you here many times not to ruin the judiciary, but my requests have been for nothing. Really, in my last term of office, with tears in my eyes, I stood here and I asked the senators on this side not to ruin the judiciary and the constitution. Today I will not vote for them because I have some great emotions about the Saski Palace, I just think this is a terrible, terrible moment. Just after the pandemic, we take this initiative. If I were so mean, I'd talk about the Kazimierz castles. Where are these castles, Minister of Culture? Where are those locks? Minister... I don't know if that's what Mr. President promised or President Kaczyński didn't promise. Where are the Cazimierz castles rebuilt? That's how crazy we are... [[Ten minutes, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal... [[I can give you another five minutes.]] There you go. Thank you. I would like to point out that there are no Kazimierz castles. And these are ideas a little bit like what we have with the Saski Palace. And one last thing. Nobody. Neither the Minister nor the Minister Gawin, who simply left earlier, nor the Marshal He didn't refer to what I said. I'll say it again. Every year we spend 120 million PLN on monuments. For monuments that still exist, but in a moment they will be ruins. They call for help, they need care, money, and there are real walls, there are frescoes on the walls, there are beautiful vaults... But I can show you pictures of such monuments that are no longer there, because they were just ruined, and the money didn't come in time. 120 million... Now imagine how much such historical tissue could be saved for 2 billion 400 million, for at least 2 billion 400 million. I draw attention to the fact that if you do something like this, every time someone comes to the Ministry of Culture for money for monuments, they will say: yes, you can afford this Saski Palace in Warsaw, and you can't afford to rebuild a building in Sandomierz or some manor house in Małopolska, you can't afford it? That's the question. So to gain something else Although, of course, Minister Gavin is no longer here. I would like to say that I believe that the money for the protection of monuments in Poland should be increased, since we can afford such reconstruction of castles, buildings that do not exist for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u493	Thank you very much, Senator. They're complex, they're complex. Mr. Borowski's grandstand, please. I have a question right away: will you secure 15 minutes, or will 10 be enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u494	In just a few points, I'll tell you why I'm not voting. Although I withdrew my application for rejection, i.e. Why don't I vote now, because unfortunately we have to vote now. If there was any more time, and if there were still some things to check out, who knows? But for today, here's the thing. First of all, with regard to the amount, Mr. Adam Wagner It is an architect who notabene designed this reconstruction quite recently, a few months ago, spoke about costs and said that it is a powerful investment, it will have to cost PLN 1 billion. So from May to August, this has already increased to 2 billion 400 million, and it is not known how much longer it will increase in the future. Secondly, I agree completely with the fact that, since first the construction of Kazimierz castles is expected, and this is a huge project from which nothing comes out, and then suddenly there are 2 billion 400 million, and perhaps more, in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace and its surroundings in Warsaw, I want to say... Minister Paprocka spoke here about the need to remember about the past, that you have to take care of monuments, etc... So what I'm saying is, from any point of view, Even though the memory of the past, from a tourist point of view or to the satisfaction that Poland is beautiful, the reconstruction of these castles would be much bigger. Thirdly, with regard to this plebiscite, to which Mr.Karczewski refers here, it was the plebiscite of the Gazeta Wyborcza, which was made in various cities, etc., also in Warsaw, and there really in the first place the street was replaced. Marszałkowska, greening the whole Marszałkowska, so that it is such a beautiful centre, the centre of Warsaw, in second place was the fight with smog, with kopciuch, and various other activities; and in third place was the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. Only, ladies and gentlemen, it was not a plebiscite conducted among 2 million inhabitants of Warsaw, but among readers of the Gazeta Wyborcza, and also electronically, through the portal Gazeta. en, and therefore nowhere is given, how many readers participated in this But I can guess it was a dozen thousand people. Therefore, these are results that are really hard to support. Not to mention the fact that the first two places really took on different subjects... Not much, nobody was informed about how much this reconstruction would cost, nobody knew it would be PLN 2.5 billion, because who knows how the readers would behave then. And finally, and this is the most important thing for me, the idea of moving the Senate and placing the Senate in the Brühl Palace. What I'm saying is I'm against separating the Senate from the Sejm. There's another thing about power, you can try to get it done, but the distance between these two institutions... I know, there are countries in which it is, but for example. in Germany they were separated and from German senators we hear that it was not a good idea that it was simply difficult for them to live. I'm sure it would be. Mr. Marshal Karczewski says there's been research on whether there's anything in our neighborhood. Maybe, I don't know anything about them, I haven't seen them, I haven't heard them. Of course, in 2018, when Marshal Karczewski was a marshal and I was a modest Senator of the opposition, I may not have been informed. But then I didn't make a decision. I'm supposed to make a decision today. And that's why I'd like to know if it's really possible. Because if it were possible, it would be a much better solution, especially since the costs in such a case would probably be in order, I don't know, a few hundred million, maybe 200, maybe 300 million, and not... Well, it's hard to say, there's 2.4 billion for all objects, but Brühl's Palace is there, it seems, the largest, therefore probably the lion's share. Therefore, in such a situation, it is such a blind vote, that is to say, it is already prejudicing that yes, it will be better there. And I think you have to be absolutely sure that you can't do it here without, so to speak, such a gigantic effort, without separating these institutions just for a certain prestige... Because it's only for this purpose that it would be done: aha, but here we have a separate building and separate power, etc. And all the other things would, of course, get complicated. Therefore, as I say, if this were preceded by all the information that is needed here, then maybe I would change my mind, but unfortunately I cannot vote blindly in such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u495	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal. At the minister's office, there are old developments regarding the expansion at the local location. They are available. You're the next one to sign up for Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start and end up in private. On 1 June 2017, in that term of office, I made a statement to the President of the Republic of Poland on the reconstruction of the Saski Palace in Warsaw as a permanent commemoration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. And here it is, I've lived to see it. I didn't do this, but the effort of many people, and this historical effort even that we can talk about rebuilding not monuments or not monuments, but some kind of symbol. This reconstruction itself will end a stage in the Republic of Poland. We do not even realize how many of the laws we are adopting here, which we are dealing with, have a direct or indirect relationship with the Second World War. This war. I'm saying it in quotes, of course. It has not been properly completed. We often adopt laws that concern, for example, personal losses or how the Polish people in the human sphere have been harmed. Just so we're clear, I, of course, treat World War II as a strictly historic period from 1 September 1939 to May 1945. But the consequences of this war, i.e. forcing Poland to be one of the elements of the Soviet puzzle, the Soviet terror, of course he weakened over time... This is the direct effect of World War II. This can be regarded as a uniform 50-year period for Poland's sovereignty, from 1939 to 1989. This sovereignty, of course, was regained during history, but we were still under the influence, rule, first occupation, those who simply wanted to destroy the nation and the Polish state. And now we're getting out of this. As I said, if we adopt a law or another amendment of the law on combatants, on deportees, or, as last time, for example. On the initiative of the President, on special witnessing to those who were transported to, popularly speaking, Siberia, to the Soviet territories during and after World War II, we are thus ending unfinished matters related to the Second World War and the post-war period. And not only in personal terms, but also in material terms. Of course, in fact, it's mostly just a reconstruction of the country. The reconstruction of the Saski Palace is part of this range. But there are much more material issues. Yeah, I'll remind you right here. It's already been passed by our parliament. Indemnification for Bużan. This is also the aftermath of World War II. There are also issues related to restitution, let's call it cultural goods. I am referring to the restoration of the Royal Castle mentioned here, or to this kind of symbol, or reconstruction, I hope that it will be completed in a short time. Saxon Palace. Well, we'll have another witness to history, this long period, the Palace of Culture and Science. But let's leave it for now. Let's do what we can and what's positive. And finally, in the field of history The establishment of IPN, then new competences, new tasks that we impose on IPN, but not only... We need to reread the facts or even dig into facts we don't know. And we have to do it pretty quickly. Well, right now, basically, a generation of direct witnesses is dying. These are the last years. And that's how we've been late in all these activities for 50 years, that's how we've been late for 50 years. We started this by two generations too late. And these are the internal actions. There are still activities outside, by some with some disbelief treated The disbelief that we are trying or at least talking about the fact that we should take them. In the personal sphere, remind, neither the German invader nor the Russian invader compensated any losses. What has been obtained by some of our citizens who have been deported to forced labour is not compensation. Not to mention the prisoners of the extermination camps, the other victims. The Russian occupier does not feel guilty at all, not to mention the exploitation of Poland in the post-war years. When it comes to material matters, reparations... Some fear the word, but it is a normal word for international policy and international relations. The German state stopped paying, paid its reparations from World War I, but it was probably still paying in 2000. The Soviet occupier, the eastern one, does not admit at all, does not take into account the discussion about material damage. Restoration of cultural goods That's the third area. It goes very hard, but here we do have some successes, because it depends mostly on our efforts, already such direct, state-owned ones. And the question of history, we need to show our vision of history, our narrative. It's not a historical policy at all, it's simply a restoration of the truth outside. We have discussed this today, and we will be discussing several or more successive laws, which will still be here in the High House during this term of office. We have to do this. Others do. Why shouldn't we take care of our good, lofty history, our story that we don't have to be ashamed of? All you have to do is recreate it. You don't have to color it. And now I'm going to refer to the bill itself. The text is clear, it holds on, I would call it, by myself. These few amendments, mainly related to the presence of Senate representatives, should rather be included in the text, all the more so since we agree that the Senate should be present in this complex. Why there? If this is a symbol of the reconstruction of statehood, sovereignty of Poland, and this is happening gradually, it is not a day-long process, then the Senate is the best example of this. The Senate in Poland was always when Poland was independent, sovereign. That's just the way it was. When the Senate was missing in one way or another, well, the reasons were different, then Poland was under occupation, it was either not fully sovereign or even non-sovereign. Therefore, the preparation of a seat for the Senate in this complex is, in my opinion, absolutely justified. And finally, this case, this is the second one, I would call it, as if a private ending to this statement. In one of my statements in the previous term I also asked, this time not the President, another body, to consider the possibility of creating another museum, the creation of a museum of war losses of the Republic of Poland, losses of course from World War II. Everyone will say: well, we have so many places of national memory, extermination camps, we have the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk, we will have the Museum of Polish History at the Warsaw Citadel, it is currently being built... [[Ten minutes, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, just a minute. Why is this a museum? Because there is no such thing, there is no museum summing up all the losses of Poland, also those unencouraged benefits, and treating this entire 50-year period as some kind of inunctim, the whole. As I said, the presence of Soviet troops for 45 years or even longer after the war is a consequence of September 1, 1939. This museum should be in a place where it will be easy to access, in a symbolic place, and above all, so that it can be shown to every foreigner when he visits the capital, assume, for 2 days or even for 1 day. And it's the Saski Palace that I think is perfect for that. Mr. Marshal here mentioned the Museum of History of Poland in general. I'd like to narrow it down to that. Why... Of course, it's just a proposal for discussion. Why? Because our latest story is determined by what we've lost. And in real losses, and in this cut off from the western world. It's not our fault. And this is what we should show, both to those who will visit us from where we started, which is why we behave like this and not differently, but also to our young people. Such a museum of Poland's losses during World War II will at the same time in a sense be composed with a statue of a Polish soldier. 'Cause there were losses there, too. The grave of the Unknown Soldier is one of the elements of Poland's losses, but also one of the elements to glory. The monument, well placed in the museum or in its immediate surroundings, I believe, will be the core, the centre of the capital, and at the same time the centre of the country. To sum up, Mr. Marshal, I welcome this initiative as much as possible and thank you to the President for it. Of course, I will vote in favour and support those who will be responsible for the construction, so that it becomes a fact and that these objects are created. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u497	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Hamerski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't and I'm not a Warsaw resident, I mean I'm a temporary resident, but I also want to say that I think I feel it as a kind of paradox, that Senator Jackowski, who was probably born in Szczecin, and I, who was born in Szczawnica, 450 km from Warsaw, are in favour of this bill. But I must say that both the committee debate and the debate now, in the Senate, were worthy of the High House. Everyone, of course, has the right to their views, for, against, looking for arguments, but I am glad that this has been going on in such a very, I would say, parliamentary way. Well, with little exceptions, perhaps. I just want to refer to one group of arguments, which is that this is a bad time to rebuild these historic objects. Ladies and gentlemen, the reconstruction process of Warsaw was started immediately after the war, it lasted several dozen years and I think that not everything was possible directly in these 20 or 30 years to rebuild. The time to rebuild these objects would probably never be good, we'd always find an argument, and that's a net, and that's a financial one, and that's some other conservatory one, so we wouldn't do it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I will be in favour. But let me end by quoting the most famous statement, especially to Warsaw, but not only, the director of the National Museum, art historian, director of Lorentz, who once said, "This is the history of Poland: we build and collect, storm and rob us, rebuild and collect again, storm and steal again." It is always our national duty to rebuild and accumulate again, or else we will cease to exist. I'm in favour of rebuilding this palace. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u499	Thank you very much, Senator. He will speak, remotely, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u500	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I can only be glad that so many non-Warsaws want to vote in favour of enriching the capital. Although a little bit of a day, at least in my opinion, Senator Czerwiński added to this discussion, who once again made me speak with his filipica against all the neighbors, because such a voice... And here's the thing... He was talking a little bit next to the subject. Such a voice, which will still rub it, is the voice which leads to the conclusion that after 6 years of running the national name through the Law and Justice good relations, as far as neighbours are concerned, we have only and exclusively with the Baltic. And I don't know how I'm gonna vote yet, because I really have deep mistrust. on how the PIS, Law and Justice colleagues will take advantage of this initiative. I'm afraid it's just as bad as the other stuff. However, I would like to talk about three points. As for the tomb of the Unknown Soldier... here I must refer to an open letter signed by people to whom I have great respect and who are very close to me. Nevertheless, this argument that we cannot... means that the Warsawers are already accustomed to something else, that this is their perception of space in Warsaw, that the grave of the Unknown Soldier, as it was shaped in 1946 or 1947, fits into such, not another public space, accepted, and what would have been, if the Saski Palace had been rebuilt, would not have entered... Well, I'd like to remind you that in 1925, in March, when the tomb of the Unknown Soldier was unveiled, it was the Saski Palace. And I don't think going back to what was at first was a bad thing. I'm sure it's hard to say that there's one right, the one that says that the grave of the Unknown Soldier must be only and only in a fixed ruin... It's not just a narrative. I would also like to say that I remember what happened to the Warsaw castle. I remember this discussion. She reminds me very much, unfortunately, of today's discussion. I remember actually one part. As a child I went to the rebuilt Old Town, still remember the ruins of the Warsaw Castle with this one window. Before the war it was a window to the room where Żeromski lived. And you could say that I was actually looking at something that should have been preserved in this state, not another state. I assure everyone in this room that I prefer to rebuild the castle of the Warsaw. And I remember that discussion that was passing through. It was identical. That the Warsaw castle was actually rebuilt at the expense of Poland. And I have to say that it is a reproach, that Warsaw, which paid a terrible price for heroic stubbornness in battle... saying that all Poland owes nothing to Warsaw, is not close to me. I believe that Warsaw deserves Poland to contribute to its reconstruction, because no other city has experienced such misfortune because of the heroic attitude of Poles. And one last thing, the question of whether we should, so to speak, separate ourselves from the Sejm or not. On the one hand, the arguments of Senator Czerwinski, who says that we should do so, in a situation where he criticizes opposition to the Senate Sejm, amuse me a little. On the other hand, I do. And I expressed it by all the terms, and we had very serious discussions on this and in the previous term, and 2 terms ago. The Senate should do whatever it takes to be independent. And I think there's another place... I'm not prejudicing the Saski Palace. I can't answer that. But I think the Senate should be separate, not under one ward. The Marshal of the Sejm, even if he shares, according to good manners, with the Marshal of the Senate. Well, speaking of which, I'm going back to where I started. I don't know how I'm going to vote, because I have very serious doubts about this, in some way and when these funds will be used by the ruling team. Some of the arguments that have been put forward here, I reject as completely untrue arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u501	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Borowski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u502	As I said, for me, the main issue is not architectural issues, because I know very little about it. I know there are different opinions on this. Only the key issue is the concept, the idea of placing the Senate there without providing evidence that the working conditions cannot be improved here, the cubature increases, builds up, in short, a relatively small cost of what is needed. The mere issue of prestige, unlike what Senator Pociej just said, is not the most important thing to me. The rank of the Senate and the importance of the Senate really do not depend on whether he will be in a small room or in a large room, whether he will be in the Brühl Palace, etc. I don't have to explain that it depends on something completely different. The working conditions are, of course, a completely different matter. These working conditions must be improved, they should be improved. The question is how much money needs to be spent on it and whether it can be done in the least invasive way. Well, what I'm trying to say is that I just received... Mr. Marshal mentioned there were documents on the case. And indeed, our Administrative Office has received such a document, which, as part of preliminary activities of a study nature, commissioned the visualization of the expansion of senate buildings, also a certain cost analysis as to what it would look like, what it would give, etc. And there are already results of this, namely an additional 4,000 400 m2, at the expense of PLN 155 million. I think that's a good enough argument not to pack probably about a billion zlotys. Or more of a transfer of the Senate over there. So what would be the Brühl Palace? I don't know. I'm not saying anything about it. It's hard for me to say. But it gives the impression that the very idea of rebuilding the Saski Palace with the Brühl Palace was dictated to move the Senate And that can't be the reason for that kind of decision. Here I'm showing visualization, maybe you can't see it from far away, but whoever wants to, will be able to see. It's actually very ingenious, it looks very good. Like I said, maybe it's not complete, maybe it's not what it's supposed to be, but once again, it is. And if that's the case, then today's vote and prejudicing the Senate to move to Brühl's palace is premature.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u503	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bosacki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u504	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! As you have heard, rations are also divided among the members of our club. I am clearly saying that I will not support this project, because I think that 2.5 billion PLN from the pocket of a Polish taxpayer can be spent better, especially in today's situation. The reconstruction of the Saski Palace and the Brühl Palace to rebuild the Royal Castle was compared in this room, but historically, culturally, in terms of the importance of these buildings, cannot be compared. The Brühl Palace with the Saski Palace is not the Royal Castle in Warsaw, it is not the Royal Castle in Cracow, it is not the Gniezno Cathedral or Poznań Cathedral, where Polishness began. It is not any of the iconic for Polish culture and Polish history of great historical buildings. In addition, this 2.5 billion PLN assuming that it will only be 2.5 billion PLN, but of course we all know that if the amount of 2.5 billion is already being talked about, it will probably be much more than that. You could spend your goals much better on the fate of the nation. I made a quick calculation during this discussion. Well, that would be enough for a thousand-dollar raise for all Polish nurses and midwives, of course monthly If we consider, as I do, that health protection is at the moment a strategic goal that needs to be supported in Poland. If we thought that such a goal was education, it would be enough for almost 500 PLN monthly increase for all Polish teachers. If we thought that such a goal, especially in the time of pandemic, was to improve Polish psychiatry, as I consider it, this amount would almost double the budget of Polish psychiatry, which amounts to just over PLN 3 billion. If we recognised, as I do, and as my formation recognizes, that the strategic goal for the fate of the nation today is to protect Polish nature, it would be enough to pay for the exchange of almost 20,000 cinderellas. a year or greening attention! For planting forests, which unfortunately are boarded up by PiS, to plant 500,000 ha of the new forest. The cost of planting the forest is about five thousand for one ha. One of the senators opting for it said it wasn't his project. It was symptomatic. But I really think that those behind this project are the ones behind it. Whether they are senators or it is the President of the Republic of Poland They're really building their monument, their monument. If it were the good of the Republic, this money should be spent on education, health protection, Polish nature, climate protection. You do not rebuild the great monument of Polishness, because the Brühl Palace with the Saski Palace were not such monuments. Much longer than the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs was there e.g. I am thinking of the worst period of Polish history, i.e. the second half of the 18th century, the embassy of the Russian Empire. Much longer than this place served the Polish state institutions, there were barracks of the Russian army, the army of possessors. The barn wasn't there. Excuse me, command, command of the Warsaw district. Well, to be honest, that's worse. So we are not dealing with the reconstruction of the Polish monument of national history. We are dealing with an attempt for unclear reasons to build a monument to those behind this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u505	Thank you very much. Is the senator speaking? [[Yes, but it will be brief, Mr. Marshal.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not a Warsawian either, although my grandmother and grandpa were married here at the nearby church of St. Alexandra. But I will vote in favour of this bill, and not because I am from the formation that brought this project, but because I believe that symbols are important to you. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, symbols and traditions are something that causes that in the place where Marshal Grodzki sits, not everyone who wants sits. Symbols and traditions are important because, thanks to them, anyone who comes to this room does not sit in the position of the President. There was talk of money. Mr. Senator's intention was to recalculate the funds we want to spend on reconstruction was to point to various areas of public life. But, ladies and gentlemen, can patriotism be estimated? Does patriotism have a price? In my opinion, the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the place where the tomb of the Unknown Soldier is located, a place so special to the history of the Second Republic, this short period of freedom, democracy and independence, would be very, very important to our reality today. And the last thread. By the way, we're talking Senate headquarters. I am convinced that the Senate should have a separate seat. There was talk of prestige. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not about prestige, it is about how we see the institutions of the state, whether we want the state to be strong Of course, it's strong in its dignity and strong in its people's strength. Or we think that the state can act in a slightly diagonal way, a little on the margin that one institution can be pushed in front of the other. Unfortunately, it is the first-born sin of our House, which has been shoved from the very beginning in Parliament, in the Seym actually. We stay in the Sejm all the time because we're not entitled to this property. The Senate Marshal isn't the owner here, he's not his own, he just feels like a guest all the time. And we're with him. Perhaps in the 1990's it was necessary to decide that we were installing the Senate elsewhere, even in the Royal Castle, which was also rebuilt. This is a new building, you could adopt it. But, ladies and gentlemen, the political class lacked determination. There is no such thing as civil courage to say: we are building a strong Republic, and therefore the Senate should have its dignified place. Once again, I thank the Minister for the project, for what the President has brought to our Parliament. As I say, I will vote in favour of this proposal with full conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u507	Thank you very much, senator. For a brief remark, I'll just mention that the most powerful country in the world has a building called the Capitol and that's where Congress and the United States Senate are located, but that's just a short voice in the discussion. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Ewa Matecka, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Adam Szejnfeld made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Barbara Zdrojewska, Marek Borowski and Jan Maria Jackowski. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I just have a question for the Minister. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? There's no obligation to... [[Voice from the room: There is no representative of the government.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. The vote will take place at the end of the Senate meeting, as I said. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 160th anniversary of the death of Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 476, and the report... There's no report. I'm sorry. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, as it is agreed with the clubs and the senate circles, has been included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a resolution on behalf of all clubs and political groups commemorating the figure of Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski, whose hundred and sixtyth anniversary of death passed in July this year. The content of the resolution is known. I want to highlight a few motives. Prince Adam Czartoryski, President of the National Government during the November Uprising, later creator of the Lambert Hotel, actually helmsman of Polish politics at the Great Emigration, then sentenced to death by the Tsarist Russia, was probably the greatest political figure of Poland's period of partitions before the generation of Józef Piłsudski and Roman Dmowski came into operation. From our point of view, from the point of view of national and national traditions, it is that when the Polish case moved beyond the borders of the country, it was able to build a properly quasi-state with diplomatic service in a very large number of countries, maintaining the Polish case on the international stage... It is also necessary to remind that earlier, during the Vienna Congress, it led to the formation of a partial Polish statehood in the form of the Kingdom of Poland, which was a partial deletion of the decisions of the possessors, the maintenance of the Polish statehood, although to a poor extent, but it was a very important circumstance. Prince Adam Czartoryski is an important figure from our point of view, from the point of view of the Senate and the mission to support Poles abroad. He was the guardian of emigrants and patron of Polish culture. I would like to ask the High House to adopt a resolution which is important from the point of view of the state tradition and which is important from the point of view of the Senate's political mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u509	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, Senators Halin Poor and Alexander Swed have made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution, which would only cover the vote, but since it is late, the vote will take place at the end of the Senate meeting together with other votes. We will carry them out, Mr. Senator, first after the session resumes at 10 a.m. I'm gonna need your messages right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u510	Ladies and gentlemen, I present your communications. Meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-eighth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-eighth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Chambers and certain other laws will take place on 6 August at 8.30 a.m. in room 176/179. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Open Data Act and the re-use of public sector information will take place tomorrow, 6 August at 8.00 in room 182. Meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media of the Communication on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-eighth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity of Witold Pilecki and some other laws and proposals submitted to the Act on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw will be held tomorrow, 6 August at 8.15 a.m. in room No 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-05-senat-28-2.u511	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Let's start with the votes. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 12]]
