ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 9, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9, - Health at about an hour. 9, - Health at about an hour. 9.15, - Culture and Media together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Education, Science and Youth - at 3 p.m. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 14.45, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 15, - Social and Family Policy together with the Health Commission at 15 p.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 15, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u2	Thank you very much. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act, amendments to the Annexes to the Basel Convention on the control of transboundary movements and disposal of hazardous waste, drawn up in Basel on 22 March 1989, adopted in Kuching on 23 and 27 February 1998 and Geneva on 9 and 13 December 2002, on 25 and 28 April and on 10 May 2013. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The report of the committee was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen in print No 1311. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 19th agenda, i.e.: Report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Law - Water Law will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft resolutions: - commemorative 100th anniversary of the International Poznań Fair, - about celebrating the 45th. The anniversary of Radomski June 1976. The reports shall be printed in 1308 and 1333 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in discussions on these items, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Over the past few years, we have seen the dynamic development of micro-installations related to the installation of photovoltaic panels. A lot of this was done: above all, the good support that we have today, but also the revision of the regulations on the possibility of installation on roofs, on the ground, with lower VAT. What's going on? The government boasts of the great growth we have in micro-installations that there are already 0.5 million energy consumers produced by prosumers. On the other hand, we learn about shocking changes in this area from day to day. The tariffs, the net metering billing form, which allowed for the discharge and use, the balancing of this generated electricity, are to be converted into fixed tariffs, which are very unfavourable to the customers. I would like to remind you that fixed tariffs were already adopted by the Sejm in 2015. It was then recognised - it was already under the rule of the PiS - that they are inappropriate and need to be amended because they are incompatible with European law. At the moment we are learning that what is, must be changed, because the European Union demands such changes from us. What will be the consequences of this? Huge, unfavorable - especially for those who intended to invest in the production of their own electricity. But - thousands of jobs were created. This dynamic development caused that in many towns, in many districts, local districts companies were established, professionals trained. And it's visible, it gives a certain effect. My question is: What is the purpose of the government? Does he really want to block the development of renewable energy with regard to prosumers? What's behind this? Because there are rumors that these are companies, companies of the Treasury envying, I'm going to tell them, prosumers, that they're making money out there. This is small money - they pay less for electricity - but look what money needs to be invested because these investments are very expensive. So here is the kind of action that surprises everyone, without prejudice, contrary to (the bell) of this theory, which has been proclaimed so far, that it is precisely necessary to support prosumer production, because suddenly Poles find out that all this is to be silenced. What is the reason for this, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u4	Thank you very much for asking the question. Mr Piotr Dziadzio, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly try to justify why the government changes regulations and introduces new ones. Ladies and gentlemen! In the beginning, however, I would like to explain that the aim of the bill of 2 June submitted for public consultation is not to limit the development of photovoltaics, on the contrary, it is to stimulate this industry, i.e. the photovoltaic industry, to make it even more developed. Photovoltaics, as you said, is already one of the most dynamically developing technologies, and many new jobs are being created. And that's exactly what we want, that's what we want to take care of. The total installed capacity at the end of April 2021 was 4,7 GW. And it is also worth noting here that in 2015 we had only 4 000. Prosumers and installed capacity were only 100 MW. Ladies and gentlemen! 3/4 of the power installed in photovoltaics are prosumers. The growing prosumer market today does not count 500, but already 600,000. entities. This spectacular success was achieved thanks to the following factors: falling costs of photovoltaics, my current programme, tax concessions, rising energy prices and waste systems. Observing the dynamic development of this sector, we see that it is necessary to modify the prosumer clearing system in order to ensure further stable development of this area. This is why legislative changes have been proposed in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The draft amendment of the Act - Energy Law and the Renewable Energy Sources Act is the implementation of our commitments to Directive 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity and amending Directive 2012/27 of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! On 2 June, this legislative proposal was submitted for public and inter-ministerial consultations. We proposed, among others. a solution necessary to improve the functioning of the energy market, including strengthening the position of consumers and their activation. Consumers and active consumers, including prosumers, play a key role in achieving the flexibility needed to adapt the distributed electricity system. Without the flexibility provided by energy consumers, the transformation of the energy sector is, seems, impossible. This active role will be ensured by strengthening the position of consumers precisely and that is what we are also aiming for by proposing this law. They should therefore be provided with appropriate tools. So we're generally looking forward here - we're looking at what's going on today and how this prosumer market is going to look like in a moment. In this way, they will be able to adapt their energy consumption to the market situation, to those price signals in real time. The project developed in the Ministry of Climate and Environment provides the basis for such development, here we speak, among others. on the development of dynamic tariffs. In addition, EU regulations introduce an obligation to ensure that active customers, including prosumers, are among others. the rights to sell electricity on their own, will bear network charges reflecting costs and will be settled separately in terms of energy entering the grid and downloading from the network. Currently functioning in Poland, the discharge mechanism does not allow the separation of the settlement entered into the network and collected from the electricity grid. Ladies and gentlemen! What, then, are changes, what is the new system? The main prerequisite for new solutions for prosumer energy is to replace the system of waste with innovative solutions for new prosumers, thanks to which they will receive among others. the possibility of selling surplus electricity. And here the purchase price of the electricity prosumer will be 100%. the average price of electricity sales on the competitive market in the previous quarter announced by the President of URE. In order to meet the needs of prosumers, in the new planning system it is possible to sell the generated energy indefinitely. In order to ensure legal certainty for current prosumers, the proposed regulations will only apply to prosumers entering the market after 1 January 2022. Moreover, what is proposed in the Act does not prejudge the date of entry into force of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, with a brief view to the summary, the amendment proposed on 2 June (The Bell) was submitted to a broad inter-ministerial and social consultation. The dialogue with the PV industry is ongoing, as demonstrated by the consultation meeting on 22 June, in which several dozen PV players took part. The opportunity to discuss and listen to the voices coming directly from the industry gives us the basis for building the solid foundations of this law. And she in the circles of manufacturers and aggregations is actually very positive. Ladies and gentlemen, I will sum up so briefly what is to change and what is to be the amendment of the law. We provide a prosumer perspective for at least 25 years. Today is only 15 years old. We provide rights acquired for current prosumers, i.e. we ensure the development and continuation of our activities. We provide a system that generates large savings on accounts, we limit spending unnecessary costs on an oversized installation, in which very often prosumers invest unnecessarily. We're developing an energy storage market. We build solid foundations for a new energy model based on distributed entities. To sum up, the model developed is the answer to the development of photovoltaics, not, as is alleged, the killing of this sector. In the long term, it is very forward-looking, we are running very forward-looking in time here and we see how this photovoltaics are developing in neighbouring countries, and we are already adapting to the fact that it is a practical, functional system that is cost-effective for prosumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u6	Thank you very much. Now, I ask you to ask Mr Jan Slope a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u7	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You said that it was not the government's intention to limit the development of RES. I am even able to believe it, but I recall here a proverb that a certain shrine is paved with good intentions. And that's why we're bringing up this topic, like, before it, because we already have a story about it. As far as the Polish energy industry was concerned, in 2005 and 2016, it was beautiful years of development of the RES segment, namely wind energy. That's almost a 70-fold increase in power generation in this area. And in 2016, only in one year, the record in terms of capacity increase was 1225 MW. We remember 2016 and the introduction of the Act of 16 July, so-called. Ten times the height. So? And the collapse. There were stories at the time too - I remember this - that it will not limit that we need to protect the environment, the inhabitants, etc. Today, you're trying to get back to this story and rewrite it. I would just like to ask, at what stage is the RES amendment and in which direction it will go, and whether it will not. We ask that we examine this and take into account all the voices of the discussion, the critical voices, so that it does not happen to photovoltaics as well. We really pay as consumers live cash for these decisions from 2016. The current in Poland is the most expensive at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u8	Thank you very much, sir. Again, I ask Minister Piotr Dziaddzia to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u9	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say briefly that we are talking right now about a project that we are consulting. We are open to the voices of all the environments, so that we can put the best solutions in place. Right? That's once. As far as 10H is concerned, it's developing right now. It's not like we don't think about working out the right solutions. What else do we have of such important things to emphasize? Despite what you have accused us of here, renewable energy from the wind is growing and will develop on land and at sea. Right now, all the offshore energy that... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'd like to ask the Members... If you are not interested in the subject of your messengers, maybe I should ask you at least a little bit to mute the discussion. [[Very interesting.]] The subject is important, maybe not for everyone, but those for whom it is important would like to hear the speech in peace. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: In conclusion, I will say that we already see how RES is developing today. We already have 14 GW RES today, right now. So this is a very developmental trend. We do not absolutely intend to limit the development of RES here, because energy based on RES, as we know, is not stable energy, but is an energy industry that in a sense develops a new energy model in our country. And that's basic. So we're not going to kill RES, just the other way around - we're building those areas of RES development that are going to be used as effectively as possible by prosumers, but we're also going to be developing effectively in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to ask a question about communication problems in the Court of Justice and a key communication investment region, so-called. It's all right. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Construction and reconstruction of the DK75 road on the section Brzesko - Nowy Sącz is for the inhabitants of Małopolska, in particular the southern Małopolska, an endless novel about projects, plans, and analysis of subsequent events. This was also the basis of the fact that, at the beginning of this term of office, a parliamentary team was set up to monitor the progress of the trial. Not long ago, a meeting was held in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways on the stage of the investment. It should be emphasized that we, as parliamentarians from Małopolska, feel that this work is taking too long. Unfortunately, the great analyses that are being carried out - analyzed 1800 km in 26 different types of projects - led to a situation where we have today three proposed routes. In the case of one of them there is a sharp resistance of two municipalities. I will remind you that this road is to run through the municipalities of Brzesko, Gnojnik, Czchów, Łososina Dolna, Chełmiec and Nowy Sącz. We hear about huge protests in two municipalities - in Gnojnik and in Czchow. We are afraid that this situation may lead to a further extension of the design of this investment, to further problems, later protests, which will consequently lead to the fact that we will simply continue to talk about this path, while in practice this investment will drag on in time. That is why I have once again - because I have already interpelled in this case, asked dozens of times, it is possible to say, as well as many other parliamentarians from Małopolska and Sądecczyn - a request, a question: What is the perspective today that these three projects will be subject to further procedures? What's the deadline? How can the Ministry and General Directorate for National Roads (Ring) see the continuation of this investment over time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u12	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Minister Rafał Weber to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Infrastructure investments, the most important and crucial ones, and this is also the case, are carried out within the framework of the 2014-2023 national road construction programme (with a view to 2025) and at the beginning of my speech it is necessary to say that under the programme we completed the construction of 103 tasks worth almost PLN 48 billion and a length of almost 1400 km, while the construction includes another 107 investments worth almost PLN 66 billion and a length of over 1400 km, while the tender includes 16 tasks worth almost PLN 9 billion and a length of more than 200 km. I stress this data in order to prove that the Ministry of Infrastructure is carrying out its tasks as quickly as it can, and will not fail a day to move forward with the investment process, whether it is a preparatory period or already an implementing period. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure to define investment objectives and allocate funds to them. And that's the situation with the judge. I would like to make it clear that the construction of the court is an objective set by the Government of Law and Justice in 2017 as part of the road construction programme, which is exactly what I mentioned, and that for this purpose we have prepared, secured, allocated in 2017 through the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice financial resources. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact. The decision of the Government of Law and Justice is implemented by the judge. And a brief history of these last years. Originally under the programme, 1800 million PLN was reserved for this task, while in the middle of the previous year the government adopted a resolution increasing expenditure on the courts by another 1400 million PLN, i.e. at the moment secured funds for this task is 3200 million PLN. These actions show that the Ministry of Infrastructure gives priority to the implementation of this investment. As regards the issues of the planned application for environmental decision, we are aware that this will be a fundamental step towards achieving this task. It must be undertaken with particular attention, because, as we know, project work has been very difficult, especially because of the difficult terrain, the need for many arrangements and, above all, numerous, as you have mentioned, and often contradictory social protests concerning every possible course of action. Only in one year there were several meetings with residents and local authorities in the municipalities and only in one year more than 10 thousand were received. votes on the corridors of the road. On the basis of the conclusions and suggestions of the residents and the local government, 26 variants of the passage of corridors were analysed for about 1800 km. The designer's concessions to the municipalities and inhabitants of the locality, resulting in a change in the course of this road, the Sądeczanka, caused a conflict with the expectations of the locals and raised new protests. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that we are trying to ensure that the solutions adopted are as objective as possible so that they meet the needs of all stakeholders as possible. It should also be borne in mind that the final choice of the option of the road will be affected by the decision on environmental conditions to be issued by the Regional Environment Director. The Environmental Protection Authority will examine the report on the environmental impact of the project in terms of all legal aspects required. I am replying very specifically to the Members' questions. Question number one. According to the schedule of the investment carried out by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, a request for environmental decision to DOŚ in Krakow will be submitted, taking into account three options developed during the preparatory process. To answer question 2, I would like to inform you that the implementation of the timetable will be possible once this environmental decision has been obtained. I would like to point out that, according to the preliminary assumptions, the initiation of a procurement procedure for the implementation of the scheme is planned for the fourth quarter of 2024, while the implementation itself falls within the years 2026 and 2029. And question number three, because it's also going through a discussion about the impact of pandemics on investment. We are doing everything we can to ensure that the pandemic has no impact on the investment path, both on the investments that are being prepared and on those investments that are being made. The year 2020 was indeed very difficult because of the outbreak of COVID-19, but both the contracting authority, i.e. the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, as well as contractors, our business partners, managed during this difficult period and this situation did not have a radically negative impact on the investment process. I can tell you that more damage has been done by a very long and harsh winter this season. So that we deal with these difficult pandemic moments and do everything we can to ensure that the investment process is not disrupted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will also be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u15	Thank you very much. I am very pleased, Minister, which, of course, I also welcome with satisfaction that the case of the judge is a priority for the government and that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has secured these measures, of course we have accepted it with great satisfaction and joy that this 3200 million is secured for this route. But as for these particular terms, my faith is a little smaller here, because I have been asking for this way for many, many years now, these terms, so to speak, move and if there was no shovel, there is no shovel. I have a key question because we know that this is a difficult investment in mountain terrain. There is also a possible obstruction of some municipalities in my view, on the basis that it does not work, perhaps someone also cares about it. What are the possibilities, Minister, the adoption of a special bill, the specials for the judge? I ask because even the choice of one of these three options - we know that there is a variant recommended by the general management - will meet with the resistance of local authorities in Czchow, perhaps in other municipalities, which can again drag this investment. So what are the formal legal possibilities, Minister, to adopt a specialty for this investment? I have been a parliamentarian for 15 years and I must say that this is a long time, you will admit, questions about the dates of construction of the courtesan, and this is, as we know, an extremely important road not only for the inhabitants of the entire sub-region, but also for many tourists who spend their winter or summer holidays in Krynica, Piwniczna, Muszyn or in our entire region. So, Minister, what are the possibilities of creating a specialty to speed up this investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u16	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the problem is not the lack of a legal basis for this type of investment, because this legal basis is. We have specialities within which we conduct the investment process, the road, the rail, but also the volume process. However, as Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk rightly pointed out, the biggest problem is the lack of a uniform position of local authorities on the option now and then on the course of the trial. This is the key and most important problem that prolongs the investment process. We have no direct influence on this problem. As the honourable Member rightly pointed out, one option which is feasible and which, say, the society of one commune raises emotions, controversy, and sometimes even opposition among residents and local authorities of another commune. Hence these 26 corridors, hence these dozens of approaches to finally designate this communication route. A milestone will be to submit an application for an environmental decision. This really is a fundamental step that, I am convinced, will be made after this long phase of talks immediately after the holiday this year. I hope that the Regional Environment Directorate will also take this subject very seriously and, when making an environmental decision, it will do so in a way that will not later be challenged from the legal side. Of course, society has the right to appeal, it has the right to have an opinion on environmental decisions also expressed by the chief environmental director. And steths or, unfortunately, this happens almost in every case of a new investment, whether it's road or rail. We have to consider that, too. On the other hand, I hope that this environmental decision and the proposal for an environmental decision will be well prepared from the legal side, but also completely from the environmental side, that this will not later be subject to great controversy. Thus, there is a legal basis, there is a road special act, which at the time of implementation allows for taking over the land, for example under investment, and in the assessment of the Ministry of Infrastructure this is not a problem. The Ministry of Infrastructure also thanks to the activity of Members from Małopolska from the New Court region, especially Members of Law and Justice - thank you for this activity by Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk - at this stage It's done its part. Thanks to the proposal of the Minister of Infrastructure, the Government of Law and Justice has secured financial resources. In the past, this lack of funding has been the main problem of lack of great momentum in infrastructure investment. Now there are financial resources for this task and for a number of other tasks. For this investment, i.e. the extension of DK75 between Brzesk and Nowy Sącz, there is PLN 3 200 million and it is a very large sum for a tens of kilometers of such a road. So for this moment, the Ministry of Infrastructure has done its job. It is important that the environmental decision to be adopted, and earlier the request for this decision, be well prepared, so that it is not later questioned by the local authorities, by the public. I hope that we will complete the preparatory process, then enter the implementation phase and build a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u18	Thank you very much. Now we have more questions and this, you can say, in two views. First you are members of the Civic Coalition and then you are members of the Left Club. The questions will be addressed to the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Przemysław Czarnek, who is present among us. Ms Krystyna Shumilas will be the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u19	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Minister, To begin with, two quotations: All out-of-school educational and educational activities and other forms of work with children and young people are subject to supervision by the Minister of Education, who may determine the terms and conditions of the activity or work. Second quote: Parents and carers work together with schools and presidium of national councils in organizing education and education for children and young people. The forms of this cooperation are defined by the Minister of Education. Both fit me as well as your plans to change the law of education, just replace the bureau of the national council as a curator of education. Do you know how you got those recipes? From the Law on the Development of the Education and Education System of 1961, from the times of deep communism. You want to put these laws into effect, as in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Now you want to put your parents above your parents, you want to take away their parents' rights to raise their children according to your own views, because that's what the idea of censoring extracurricular activities by the curator of education and putting them in front of their parents, over their parents and without parents leads to. That's what you want to do. We know which classes you're going to allow curator Nowak to do, religious ones, but he won't allow those about the constitution or about human rights violations. And one more quote, Minister: Teachers and educators may be persons with appropriate scientific, professional, pedagogical, moral, ideological and physical qualifications defined by the Minister of Education by means of a regulation. That's a 1961 quote, too. That's why you need rules that give the curator more power in the competition committees and do not allow the school director to be appointed without the permission of the curator to embrace the government of souls over teachers, so that teachers do not allow free teaching so that only the ideology of the minister in the school can prevail. I know you're gonna accuse the Platform, the Coalition, everyone of their evil intentions, but you're in charge for six years and you're in charge of this educational mess that is right now, and for the changes that take us back to a deep PRL. Why do you want to take away the freedom of parents and teachers to teach according to their views, their way of looking at the world? Why do you want to bring only one ideology into school and take education under your shoes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u20	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Minister Przemysław Czarnek to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have listened with great enthusiasm to this sentiment of yours to the times of the Polish People's Republic, which I do not find in any draft laws created in the Ministry. I want to assure you that the bill, which you seem to have just told us about, was created by a team of experts composed of school heads, teachers currently working in education. In answer to your question, which is an offensive question, I want to ask you: Why do you see only teachers and directors in education who would answer you? You don't see a whole bunch of parents, teachers, school heads who oppose the work of local authorities running schools, especially in big cities that are trying to ideologicalize children, indoctrinate with the help of non-governmental organizations that you would like to introduce into these schools. What you said has nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law is included in the list of legislative work and has been consulted extensively. As part of this consultation, we look forward to the substantive comments, the substantive suggestions and proposals that we are open to. It is only that the guardian of education, whose function, role does not change, is equipped with tools to defend the right of parents to raise children according to the views of these parents. [[Applause]] Because there are, ma'am, also in Poland parents and children, and teachers, and directors who disagree with your way of looking at education and your attempt at totalitarian indoctrination and ideology of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u23	Minister! Of course there are parents and children in Poland who want to follow the same ideology that you may be confessing, but there are also parents and children who have completely different views on reality, and these parents e.g. They want their children to be able to participate in sexual education. The proposal you are proposing because it is on the ministry's pages, this is a proposal that these parents will not be allowed to raise children according to their ideology and their views on reality. You don't want to let sexual education into schools at all when only the children of those parents wish to participate in this education. Here's another example. What does freedom have to do with a situation in which religion or ethics are to be mandatory, with ethics being taught only by those teachers who leave those institutions that you indicate? What is freedom? This is freedom between one Catholic upbringing or another Catholic upbringing. At the same time, the Catholicism you're confessing is Catholicism. Not Francis-style, Catholicism, hate-promoting, Rydzyk-style. If we hear what you're saying, we know clearly that these behaviors cause the spread of hatred and the sting of one group to another. What does this have to do with raising children in a spirit of tolerance, accepting their qualities, feeling like an equal partner at school? You say you're against inclusive education, inclusive school. What do you mean, "inclusive"? The point is that every child in the Polish school should feel just as well. And you're proposing to share children for the worse and the better. And worse than that, they're the ones who don't share that world view with you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u24	I ask you to answer the question asked by Minister Przemysław Czarnek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd love to answer a question, but there's no question here. Here came a series of slanders and accusations, which are an expression of internal frustration and internal problems, a personal Member. Mrs. Member! If you're asking a question, just put it in the form. For the last 1.5 minutes, you've focused on insulting us and insulting your parents who don't have the intentions you're suggesting. As for sexual education, you should know... [[Voice from the Chamber: At this point, you have offended the Member.]] But I'd like to answer the question. Okay? Thank you so much for your attention. As far as sexual education is concerned, you know very well that sexual education at the Polish school is part of a family upbringing. There is no slightest problem that local governments and parents who would like to have some in-depth sexual education organized this type of activity, but not in a way that would force the children of those parents to do so, who do not want such ideology, indoctrination and demoralization, respected lady as you propose. I have so much to say in answer to them, but a bunch of accusations, very ugly, at the Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u26	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the second question tour. I now ask Mrs Daria Gosek-Polish for a question. [[But can you ad vocem? Because the Minister insulted me.]] The Minister answered the question you asked. There you go, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The education board is a public office. The person appointed for this position should uphold the welfare of pupils and students, teachers and teachers, support schools and parents. It's bad when this mission is overshadowed by some kind of fanaticism. But that is unfortunately the case with Małopolska curator of education Mrs Barbara Nowak, whose work at the curator's office apparently was wrong about working in the curia. He uses his authority as a public servant for further media appearances, publishing outrageous statements in which he attacks minorities. He accuses equality organizations of depraving children. He speaks completely hurtful and false nonsense about child sexuality or gender ideology. We know this site too well. As a Member from Małopolska, I also know the activities of your probation officer from another angle. After every such performance, young people come to me, teenagers and their parents terrified of what she writes and says to the parole officer. Teenagers collect signatures under a petition asking for its cancellation, organize protests, and their parents complain to the voivodeship. This crusade against children and parents is becoming more and more pathetic, as is the recent prosecution of one of the schools for participating in a constitutional lesson. It is not only a ridicule of the office, but also a reiterating of basic duties, because it is probably easier to be a star on Twitter or social media than to act for students or students regardless of their orientation, their sexual identity or their views. I would also like to ask the Minister, since we also know that your curator Nowak feels perfectly in the role of inquisitor, whether it is true that a huge part, almost half, of all the ongoing proceedings against teachers and teachers in Poland have just been initiated by your curator Nowak. How many of them are just and only a way to discipline Małopolska teachers and teachers, directors and directors? How many of these cases end in remission at the Ministry of Education and Science? I would also like to remind you that parents under the Constitution have the right to provide their children with moral and religious education and teaching according to their beliefs. No one, no student and no student, can be forced to participate in religious practices. Nowak's parole officer not only doesn't take any action to support those parents and students who demand that this right be exercised, but is directly detrimental to them. Is a school sneaking on children raised by two moms, a school forcing religious practices, a school discriminating gay student or a transgender person, scaring teachers and a disciplinary teacher, a school where a curator is a political officer, an inquisitor, a school that you and your curator Nowak want to introduce? Because people are terrified to see what the education system is starting to look like in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u28	Minister Przemysław Czarnek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know what forced religious practices you're talking about at school. Perhaps the same thing that Katarzyna Lubnauer was talking about just now, insulting me, my Catholicism, insulting the clergy in Poland, without a clue, seems to me - unless you really are an outstanding specialist in Catholicism. This, Mr. Marshal, is indeed the specifics of this side of the political scene - they may go out, insult with impunity, as much as they want, throw invectives, insulting slogans, and then say that they themselves are insulted as they are pointed out. A state that supports events in the streets of the city full of vulgarity, rudeness, absolutely outrageous statements, and from the mouth of young people, also from some teachers, do you say that you are being insulted? Everyone sees you insulting our side of the political scene, and our comments only and only due to the interpretation of your speech are... [[Voice from the courtroom: Please refer to, Minister.]] ...the answer, and it is such a very delicate response, to the insulting tones and insulting remarks that you have been making for many, many years... [[Young people can't defend themselves.]] ...on the streets of the city. There's no forced indoctrination... sorry, religious practices in schools. What we want to introduce, and therefore return to the system of religion or ethics, is to cause something that was in Polish schools a dozen years ago and worked well. A situation where a student doesn't get any... [[Yes, in 1961, Minister.]] ...information about the value system is not a good situation. It's not true either... [[Game in the O.R.]] It's not true either... Mr. Marshal... Excuse me. Let the minister speak. Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: Thank you very much. There was time to ask a question. Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for allowing me to answer your questions. Nor is it true that ethics will be able to prepare only the universities indicated by us. It's impossible in the legal system. However, there are actually a dozen thousand ethicists missing in Poland, and that is why in the perspective of a few years it will be necessary to strive for these ethicists to be educated. We want to ask the rectors in different places in the country, regardless of what universities they are, to organise such post-graduate studies, which does not mean that other centres will not be able to carry out these post-graduate studies. It is quite obvious, and please do not violate reality in this respect either. As for your probation officer Barbara Nowak, the bill clearly indicates a number of functions, exactly 17, which the probation officer performs. In my opinion, Mrs. Barbara's parole officer. Nowak performs these functions exemplaryly, excellently, trying extremely hard to do his job. He is one of the best curators in Poland, not only today, but in history at all. Some of her comments on private Twitter could be more delicate. I drew Mrs Barbara Nowak's attention to her last comment on the Jagiellonian University authorities, on which things are actually happening, but the history of the Jagiellonian University, the wonderful beauty we are proud of, causes that some words at this university should not be used on private Twitter either. This is the only reservation I have for your curator Barbara Nowak, which I regard extremely highly as a curator of education, a Małopolska curator of education, and I thank her for her excellent cooperation. As for the statistics that you have asked about, the number of disciplinary proceedings that are being initiated... that is wrongly said by Mrs Barbara Nowak, because she does not initiate disciplinary proceedings, so that it is also clear, but there is an authority through which requests for disciplinary proceedings are passed, even if Mr Dobczyc's request has been made in the case of the school director in Dobczyce, who has committed a number of irregularities, as is apparent from these audit objections following the control of the Małopolska school curator. So it was the mayor who filed the motion, and your parole officer gave him an opinion. If Mayor Dobczyc himself claims that this situation needs to be checked, you can see for yourself that the situation is indeed very serious. And this is not a question of your parole officer Barbara Nowak, it is a question of unlawful conduct - according to the state of knowledge we have today, because the proceedings will explain everything - the headmaster of the school in Dobczyce, who allowed children to participate in political happening. If it were, you know, just talking about the constitution, probably nobody would be particularly interested in it, although parents' consent is needed for such events, it is necessary to keep proper procedures that were not preserved there, but there was no mere mention of the constitution, only there was simply political and opposition happening. In short, I will present these statistics to you if you wish, in writing, that this summary is indeed absolutely reliable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will now be asked by Maciej Gdula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, I'm really surprised you're praising Barbara Nowak. Her activities are hitting the young LGBT, her comments are not only widely commented, which is obvious and somehow optimistic, because given the scale of her outrage, I see a chance to change. However, you supported her statement on the Jagiellonian University and sent a letter asking for explanations on the survey prepared by the university, examining the discrimination that may be faced by people with other sexual orientation at the university. And so I have a question because I have the impression that the state is creating such tandem contempt, they are still trying to find new ways to insult LGBT people. I asked the Prime Minister, but now I want to ask you, will you go to anti-discrimination training? I think after you've been through this training, you're gonna have a little more sensitivity... Would you please be quiet here at the office? ...and look at the situation of LGBT people from a different perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u32	May I have the silence below, please, at the secretary's office? That interferes with the Member's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed written to the rector of the Jagiellonian University about the survey that was prepared for students there, asking about the legal basis for separating other sexes than women and men. There is no such legal basis in Polish law. From this point of view, the activity creates a number of controversy. I received your reply yesterday, and thank you very warmly, Mr. Rector, for this reply. It has not identified any legal basis for this action. She pointed out that the survey was part of a scientific study. I take this into account, although I repeat once again, that there is no legal basis in Poland to separate a gender other than that of a woman and a man. That's all I've done to explain the whole thing that's happening at the Jagiellonian University, which I don't approve of and disagree with. As regards anti-discrimination and anti-discrimination training, I would like to conduct them, I invite you to these trainings. I think you're gonna lighten up and you're gonna understand what equality means and what discrimination means, because the state is absolutely, you can say, you're definitely overinterpreting - that's the gentlest term - and you're fetishing. If you'd like, I can do this kind of training. I cordially invite you to this training. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So I guess we're gonna go together, huh?]] Exactly, I didn't understand whether the Minister was going to this training or not. [[Yes, Minister, will we have them together?]] Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: No, I'd like to conduct, I'd like to invite an MP. [[No, no, no. Minister, no, no, no. I'd love to go to training with you. Let's make a deal.]] But I'm eating it for you. [[No, no, no. I want the specialists to run it.]] The Minister wants to answer the question, will he go to anti-discrimination training? [[I'll sit with the Minister at the bench, I'd be happy to.]] Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: Mr President, as a constitutionalist and scientist, I have dealt with equality and discrimination in my scientific work, which is why I am fully competent to carry out such training. And if you'd like, I'll take them and invite you to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u34	Thank you. Another round of questions. Mr Waldemar Andzel will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After several months of intensive work, multi-hour meetings and negotiations, an agreement was signed on the transformation of the stone mining sector. There was a consensus on Poland's energy security and protection of mining workers. The transformation of entire regions of Poland, including Silesia, will follow the energy transformation. I would like to learn: What are the basic principles of the social agreement for Silesia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u36	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak will ask the second question in this question. Excuse me, sir, turn on the microphone or approach the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question primarily concerns the mining brothers and their future. Because the reform of mining is inevitable, many mining families living in Silesia look to the future with fear, especially families. Today, the situation for them is somewhat unstable, and therefore many questions that affect our parliamentary offices are mainly about whether these reforms, which will be inevitable, will protect part of the mining industry. I also have a question about Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa: Will the reform of restructuring of mining will have a stable impact on the functioning of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u38	Thank you very much. I ask that Minister Arthur Soboń answer these questions now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Membership! I think that the signing of a social agreement with the social side in May this year is a historic event, because it is not only an event that ends the many months of talks that took place in a permanent dialogue with the social side, both in plenary meetings and in expert groups, regarding public aid or so-called. clean coal technologies, but also in companies themselves, in five mining groups there were teams dealing with social, aid and social security issues for workers and the decommissioning of individuals themselves. At the end of the day agreements were drawn up, which became part of the social contract together with the annexes, a comprehensive social agreement which regulates the liquidation of mining in Poland until 2049. This liquidation is based on a socially agreed timetable, but also on public aid instruments that should be mobilised in this process. These are instruments that miners already know, because it is primarily an instrument of extraordinary costs, costs that are necessary to liquidate assets to liquidate individual individuals, but also to ensure that in the case of workers there, they are provided with one-off cash checks or early retirement benefits. Such instruments are known in Polish mining. These instruments will also be in the new support system. An additional German-designed instrument is the subsidisation of capacity to reduce production. This capacity to reduce production is distributed over the years and will systematically produce coal in Poland. This is obviously due to the fact that the State will mobilise public aid in this way in order to contribute to these capacity reductions in production in order to ensure the financial stability of individual mines, individual companies. Companies covered by the support scheme are companies Tauron Extraction, Węglokox Country and the Polish Górnicza Group. Lubelski Węgiel Bogdanka and Jastrzębska Węglowa are not covered by this support system today and are not part of the application submitted to the European Commission for public aid. These are companies which operate on the stock exchange, market companies which conduct their business on market terms, producing and producing energy coal, and, above all, in the case of Jastrzębska Węglowa, coke coal, which today concerns an important part of European policy as a critical element for industry. If there is a situation that would require a change of proposal and joining the system also the entities that are in these companies, we will discuss this with the social side. This is one of the contract records. Of course, the agreement itself does not only cover the liquidation of the hard coal mining sector in Poland and all the aid instruments associated with it, but also shows the future of the mining areas, mainly Silesia, indicates the directions of development, and possible support instruments, and new solutions that will be proposed by the social side, such as the Silesian transformation fund and investment projects, e.g. a car factory in Jaworzno, which we want to carry out together. There is, of course, also an annex on investment and cooperation with mining municipalities and companies around the mine. These annexes are only a signal, they indicate the direction of further work, because of course they must be much more extensive, they must be programmes that will use all the resources that can be used to ensure that this transformation around the mining industry itself, around those companies that are today controlled by the Treasury, can be used to change the economic functions of these entities and to make full use of their competences. We remain in this dialogue. I would also like to say that the social side in the case of a social contract for coal mining in Poland is not only all trade union headquarters, but also representatives of local authorities who signed this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u40	Minister, thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u41	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask an additional question on the relationship with the European Commission, and since this is a necessary agreement, I would like to know at what stage is the submission of a notification request to the European Commission. I would also like to ask if clean technologies to reduce CO2 emissions to the environment that I think are consistent with the European Union's climate policy will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u42	Thank you very much. Minister Sobonia, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u43	Yes, we want to implement projects that are so-called projects. clean coal technologies, whether zero-carbon or low-carbon technologies, such as blue fuel or blue coal, but also carbon capture technologies, e.g. with coal syngas production, these are investments which must be carried out in support of national measures. There is no way they can be supported by European funds in any way. On the other hand, when it comes to a notification request to the European Commission, it is only before us, because at the moment we have made a pre-notice application, i.e. the form of a specific proposal for a support system, but in a less formal way. I am having such discussions with the European Commission right now, and this will end, I think, within 2 months of the submission of a proper notification request. In this dialogue, in which we are with the Commission, we will establish those parameters which will form the basis of the target proposal in order to formally carry out the notification process. In view of the fact that this instrument in the form of subsidies, in terms of capacity reduction, there is no legal legitimacy today other than in the Treaty, we want to create an appropriate legal mechanism. For this, a system is needed, this system is proposed, and we have proposed precise operational plans for each production unit to the European Commission. These plans have objective indicators, objective KPIs, which will show how these units will work according to the timetable we have adopted. And if we work out common rules with the Commission on the possibility of regulating this in Polish law and compliance with European law, with the principles of public aid, we will proceed with the notification process. We'd like to do that. As soon as possible, we would like to do so again this year, so that this support system will start from 2022, because, as we know, the market situation, the business situation of coal mining companies in Poland, in particular those companies which today operate on the market for energy coal, is... to say: evil is not to say anything. So this system is necessary. I also hope that the High House will be in agreement on this issue and that we will work together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u44	Thank you very much. We're approaching another series of questions. Mr Adam Szłapka will now be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The incident with the private e-mails of Minister Dworczyk This is a very serious matter, and it cannot be underestimated in any way, just as this government is doing right now. Therefore, all questions raised in this matter must be answered in a genuinely public way. Were the people concerned - in this case certainly Minister Dworczyk, Prime Minister Morawiecki, government spokesperson - interviewed or more had a conversation with them in order to exclude the possibility of blackmail, in order to say what content appears in these e-mails? Did the Homeland Security scan the leak range? How many people have responded on this private mailbox with Minister Dworczyk, what were the persons and functions and what was the content of these conversations? This is the fundamental issue to examine how dangerous it is from the point of view of state security. Has the scale of the use of private mailboxes in government work been studied? Because it's pathology and you have to fight it. Most likely, half of this government used private mailboxes for business purposes. And one more important thing. If the Prime Minister made it clear that the Polish government was attacked by foreign forces, has any action been taken on this matter? Has the ambassador been summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Finally, this would not be the case if the ministers and members of this government with the Prime Minister were not afraid of Minister Kaminski and that he was eavesdropping on them. Why build security systems for millions of zlotys if you're afraid that he listens to you and reads your mail to Minister Kaminski? You have basically eliminated foreign policy, and now only because to continue and conduct some party games, you are able to jeopardize the security of Poland because you are afraid that in the party games Minister Kaminski will collect hooks on you. This is the most serious charge for this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u46	Thank you very much, sir. In the meantime, when you started asking questions, we realized the minister wasn't in the courtroom. Let us therefore agree that if the Minister comes back and the Member wishes to repeat his question, it will be possible. [[Oh, good.]] Now, in order not to waste time, we would proceed with further questions by suspending this series until Minister Cieszyński arrives. And I would ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to be the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Baltic Pipe is a strategic investment. It's 10 billion meters. Minister! I have this question: Is this information that comes to us from Denmark, that it is on this land segment in Denmark that there are problems, because the operator, the Danish company, has some environmental concerns... Have these problems been overcome? What actions have been taken? And isn't that date, which is set for October 2022, at risk? Unfortunately, the position of the United States is also part of this, which has slightly withdrawn from the sanctions on Nord Stream. So the whole global situation makes it very important for us to sail this gas by the end of 2020 and to have strong arguments in the negotiations with the Russians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u48	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to answer the question asked by Minister Piotr Naimski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Baltic Pipe is a project that we are implementing, you can say, for 6 years now and after these 6 years I can tell the High House that the project is being implemented according to the timetable adopted 6 years ago. The project, i.e. the pipeline, the entire route from the Norwegian shelf through Denmark, under the Baltic Sea, with the connection to the Polish transmission system - the entire route will be completed on 1 October 2022, i.e. next year. Extensive work is being carried out on all sections of this route at the moment. The submarine pipeline, which connects the Norwegian transport system on the Norwegian shelf with Denmark, is already in place. In Denmark - it is a section of 210 km - works are carried out in many places. An investor, the operator of the Danish transmission system Energinet, is responsible for the work and construction in Denmark. This is the equivalent of our Gaz-System operator in Poland. The submarine stretch at the bottom of the Baltic Sea will begin to be arranged soon, within a few weeks. The schedule predicts that in the autumn of this year this section of 275 km will be arranged. This does not, of course, mean that he will already be active, because work is still needed to check it, test it, fill it with gas. In a word: it will be part of the entire route next year. Three new works are built in Poland, and these works are also done as planned. The pipes that are purchased and prepared for laying at the bottom of the Baltic are already at the disposal of the investor are ready. With regard to this problem, which you mentioned in the question, namely the problem with the environmental authorities and the administration of the environment in Denmark, this was as follows: On 31 May, the Danish Environment and Food Appeals Board withdrew the environmental permit issued to Energnet in 2019. It is about the habitat of mice and bats, which have been identified on the route already built - at the moment this construction is very advanced - the pipeline. As a result of the discussions and explanations provided by the Danish environmental administration and the agreements concluded, Energinet confirmed the deadline for completing this section in Denmark next year, as expected. Work has been renewed, and they are in progress. The Danish Environment Agency has authorised the renewal of the work carried out by Energinet in all areas where these habitats of mice and bats have not been identified. For these areas, a supplementary permit will be issued in the near future, but this will not affect the entire schedule for the investment. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that the strategic project we are conducting will lead to the fact that by the end of next year, 2022, we will have the opportunity to transport gas to Poland from the Norwegian shelf through the Baltic Pipe pipeline, as envisaged. The Jamaican contract, which expires at the end of next year, 2022, will be replaced by PGNiG, who is responsible for this, deliveries from the Norwegian shelf and from the terminal in Świnoujście, which we are also expanding and which will be ready for this, and today is already operational. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Paul. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Turn on the mike, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u51	It is now. Minister! I am very pleased to see that the Baltic Pipe pipeline will be completed within the deadline set at the beginning of this investment, i.e. at the end of 2022, which is very important for our country, because - you know - we will not be dependent on others, not always favorable to us, suppliers. But I have this question: will there be a technical possibility to transfer this gas to other countries? Are we gonna be able to still make some kind of intermediary money, or are we just gonna be the final customer of this gas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u52	And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Yes, this Baltic Pipe pipeline is part of the strategy of diversification of sources, i.e. diversification of sources and directions, in terms of gas supply to Poland. At the same time, we build interconnectors, which will connect the Polish gas system to the neighbours. One of them is the interconnector that connects us to Slovakia. The second is the interconnector that connects us to Lithuania. And once you start - and this will be next year, both interconnectors will be ready - will also be able to transfer gas to your neighbors. It depends on whether there's a demand or a desire. In order to illustrate what we are doing, I will say that the capacity of this pipeline at the Polish-Slovak border is over 5 billion m. [[But Minister Cieszyński isn't here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to another series of questions. Mr Waldemar Slugocki will be the first question to be asked. The Minister of Cieszyński is still not here, while the person who will answer the questions of Mr Sługocki and Mr Mark Sowa, Minister Sebastian Skuz, is. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Please use the microphone option.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u55	One, two, one. There it is. Good. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have a very fundamental and fundamental question about a matter that concerns us not only as politicians of the Civic Platform, people whose local government in Poland is extremely close, but also us primarily as residents of certain territorial communities. I would like to ask the Minister about the New Deal and the changes proposed there, changes which in our opinion are very important, important from the point of view of the life of Poles and Poles, because they are related to changes in tax thresholds, but these changes, Minister, are extremely dangerous from the point of view of the functioning of local government. You know perfectly well that the reduction in revenue from these tax changes will reduce revenue to the state budget in the amount between, as you also estimate, 20 and 22 billion Polish PLN per financial year. That means about 50%. these funds will not go to local government units, because we know that about 50% These influences go to individual units of local government. This means that this is another change which the Government of Law and Justice proposes and which reduces the revenue to the budget of these units of local government. The mid-size presidents estimate that this will be a loss in the scale of about 2.5 thousand. zł in the case of one person. In 2019 you introduced changes that introduced a zero tax rate for people up to the age of 26. At that time, these revenues to the budgets of local government units were also depleted. Please pay attention, Minister, to the very dishonest rhetoric and very unfair message that you are giving to Poles and Poles, because on the one hand you say that you care about the income of Poles, Poles, Polish families, but on the other hand please note, Minister, that local government units without such income will have to look for income in other parts, in fact increasing the fees that will charge individual citizens of local government units. Only that in your rhetoric you will say that it is not your decision that this is the decision of individual local government units. But this decision will be triggered by these changes. I know that it is mentioned, because this is also what Prime Minister Morawiecki announced, about the investment subsidy, which is to amount to about PLN 13 billion and is to be granted according to the algorithm prepared by you. So I put a very important question on behalf of all Polish local government units and the basic level - I think about municipalities - and the level of district and voivodship. Do you really propose subsidies, what will be its height and what algorithm, Minister? But I would also like you to pay attention to one important thing. According to the absolute majority of Polish self-governments, the local government, in the context of these changes which you are proposing, and the lack of subsidies, the lack of compensation for these lost funds becomes a distribution government, a creative self-government, which had instruments which could autonomously conduct a creative, responsible policy that meets the challenges of local communities, will become a stagnation self-government. How and do you wish to compensate the lost funds to local government units? This is my question on behalf of local governments in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u56	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Sebastian Skuza to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u57	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The fact that local government units are an important pillar of the public finance sector is clear. I think that the actions of the Council of Ministers and the Sejm during the pandemic period have confirmed that there is great interest and attention to local self-government units. I can say that local government units ended 2020 with a surplus of 5.7 billion with a planned deficit of 21.2 billion. They also did not limit investment expenditure, which amounted to about PLN 49 billion, i.e. it was a level comparable to that of 2019. They also generated an operating surplus of PLN 21.4 billion. After the first quarter, local government units have a surplus of around 14.7 billion. As regards the issue of loss of income I would like to point out that intensive work is taking place to mitigate the effects of the decline in the income of local government units. I would like to say that tomorrow there will be a meeting of the local government with representatives of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Yesterday, at the meeting of the joint government and local government committee, Minister Paweł Chezernaker announced such a meeting. There, strategic investment issues will be presented using the entities of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the field of both investment, design and capital. What he said in his question: yes, we are actually working on the issue of investment subsidies. There was such an initiative by Senator Frankiewicz's team, but we agree that, in addition to this investment support, which has already taken place and is yet to come, the issues relating to current expenditure, with the current party, are extremely important. I can assure you from this point of view that with New Deal, if the draft tax laws New Deal will come with an estimate of the effects of the regulation, we will present solutions, maybe not yet a project, but such assumptions as to compensate for these losses. I can assure you that this strengthening of local government units will take place this year. I can give you that assurance. I'm not just talking about the investment side. I'm talking about the current spending side. We are also working as part of the local finance team in the joint government and local government committee on the target system for financing local government revenue. We have presented our assumptions, the main intention of which is to simplify certain flows, as well as to stabilise and predict the revenues of local government units. We are here in dialogue with the local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u58	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u59	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Of course, I accept these assurances, but it is difficult to believe them, because we have been referring to your policy for 6 years, and this is a policy aimed primarily at centralising and receiving, so to speak, any freedom of operation for the local government. This is not about any individuals, it is about communities - communities of people forming municipalities, powiats or voivodships. The only thing you specifically said was that you admitted that in fact local governments on the basis of changes in tax laws will receive PLN 11 billion. In return, you are interviewing BGK to capitalise on certain investments or to grant loans or loans. That's not an offer, Minister. We are talking about our own income here, so that local governments can decide for themselves, with the right tools, the right legal solutions. I would be glad if there was a law on the income of local government units, but I can honestly say that on the horizon I don't see it at all, because that is your current policy. Don't tell me what the surplus is in the units of local government in the first quarter, because it's every year. This is the specificity of expenditure in local government units, that investment expenditure is mainly in III, IV quarter of the year. After all, when you take away, you will take individual years, each year you will have an identical situation, because in the first quarter the budgets are approved, there are investment plans, tender procedures being launched, and only in the next quarter do we have expenditure related to this. That's why this first quarter has nothing to do with it. And the state is hitting on the most important and largest public investor, which are local government units. That's what the people will pay for by your policies, because that's the impact in particular on the weakest, where income and wages are much lower. They will lose rural communities to a greater extent, which can practically lose up to 50% on the basis of the proposed solutions. income from PIT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to explain: as far as the loss of current income is concerned, the only replacement will not be the role of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the financing by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. That is what I would like to make clear and distinguish. Secondly, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will have the opportunity to make capital entrances, that is one thing, and this is not a question of loans. And the second pillar, which will be discussed tomorrow, is the pillar of the projects. It will also not be feedback for local government units, but simply funding specific projects from public funds. In addition to these actions, we can say that the capital and investment pillar is also thinking about equalizing the losses of local government units due to the loss of current income. As I said, I can assure you that this support will continue this year. [[Voice from the courtroom: We'll hold you to that.]] You're welcome, by all means. I just wanted to point out one more thing. Yes, indeed, the surplus for the first quarter is always high, but last year the surplus for the whole year amounted to 5.7 billion with de facto property expenditure approximately similar to those of 2019. It was about 49 billion with a planned deficit of 21.2 billion. I can say that the total number of local government units achieved in 2020 the revenues planned before the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u62	Thank you. An additional question, short, because then there was a considerable excess of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u63	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! One more important thing. I would like to ask if this compensation for lost current income in local government units will be 1:1 because I said e.g. That's two and a half thousand. They will lose the inhabitants, such influences, individual cities in Poland. Poznań estimates that it will be between 400 and 500 million PLN, this is powerful money. You're talking, Minister, about these BGK issues, just pay attention. Not without a Cossack, I said that local government would lose this role of policy-makers, because if we are talking about BGK and financing certain projects, I understand that this will be BGK's invention. This is about ensuring that the local government does not lose its function of being close to the citizen and responding to the needs of the local community. I hope that, on the one hand, this will be compensation, Minister, for what will be the consequence of the New Deal. But I also mentioned the release of people until they were 26 years of age from income tax. And now the question is, do you have that on the horizon? Finally, the last point, because I am particularly happy about this, as you said. You said, Minister, that you are working comprehensively to amend the law on the income of local government units. My question is this, because I think that burdening and adding to the tasks of the local government units... Or else, because of course, the country has a very attractive policy for Polish citizens... Mr President, we are finishing these questions. I'm done, period. ...even though in the area we're talking about, it shifts responsibility to local government units. It's time to put an end to this fiction, you have to take responsibility for the changes. So if local governments lose PLN 11 billion, please hand it over to local governments. And if you're talking about a new approach, let's increase the share of local government units in PIT and CIT, it's not that hard. You have so many instruments, Minister, that you will compensate yourself in other areas. Do you think about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u64	Thank you. The Minister will answer this question in writing. On the other hand, I ask the secretariat again: What about Minister Cieszyński? [[He's an IT guy.]] The minister's on his way, and he's not in touch, so if there's any reason why... [[IT.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] If there's a dragonfly cause we don't know about, it's still to be forgiven. However, if there is no important reason, it will be a manifestation of disregard for the High House, because it is the minister's duty to be here, and his absence may be... [[I'm sure there's a serious reason.]] Are you the Ministry of Health's press secretary? Or KPRM? [[And you're a marshal?]] So I was saying that maybe there's an important reason, and I don't know her. If you know, please tell us what the reason is. [[Mr. Marshal, what's with the nerves?]] [[The voice from the hall: It is certainly not disrespectful.]] I therefore decide that the second question should be asked by Mr Olszewski. We are giving the Minister a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u65	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the Marshal's view that this is an outstanding manifestation of disregard for the High House. Since 2005, I have been in the Sejm and I do not recall the situation at all that the minister competent to answer questions on current matters would not arrive without justification at the meeting. But to the point. Mr Szłapka, the President, has asked many questions about the activities of the Internal Security Agency in relation to e-mail leakage. And contrary to what government representatives and Minister Dworczyk have said so far, these documents, these materials, which were on the mailboxes that leaked, were, however, in a real sense, secretive. At the time when they were there, however, they were not yet classified, because only later should the appropriate classification be given, confidentiality according to classification. On the other hand, which is extremely dangerous, this has shown what a decision-making process is in very key matters for the state, also for state security, not to mention defence and information about our agents outside the country. In normal reality, the control procedure by the Internal Security Agency should be initiated in relation to Minister Dworczyk in view of the fact that such a situation has taken place. Hence my question and I would also ask for a written reply, because Minister Cieszyński does not have: Has this inspection procedure been initiated? All the more so because experience teaches that in history security certificates were practically taken away without justification, even if Minister Wojtunik, Colonel. Souls, Major Magdalene E. and many, many others. Hence the request for a clear answer: Has the inspection procedure been initiated and, if not, why or is it planned to initiate such a procedure or take away the security clearance from the Minister Dworczyk?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u66	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the secretariat to inform the Minister that we expect a written reply, but also a justification for the Minister's absence at the meeting of the High House. We proceed to the next Question Time. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will start by hoping that if I happen to pass the time, I will also be treated with similar kindness and will be able to finish my speech. Minister! The plan for rare diseases is an extremely important undertaking and I am very pleased that it is being implemented. I will remind you that, in fact, for many years this matter has been also by previous governments, put aside and not implemented by previous parliaments. The question of what is at stake must be clarified, and the High House must also be clarified. This applies to diseases that a small proportion of the population suffers, but at the same time there are several thousand disease units - estimated to be around 6,000. So per balance this applies, this problem concerns a few percent of the population. And now, Minister, I wanted to know what stage we're at. We had an extremely interesting meeting of the Health Committee on this subject, and we learned a lot at the time. Earlier, of course, there were also appropriate declarations from the Presidential Palace about the Medical Fund, which will also deal with the issue of rare diseases. I would like to know at what stage we are at, because it is important that these actions are implemented as soon as possible, and this is at every stage - starting with a diagnosis that is extremely important here. And it is extremely important to be able to perform diagnostics in different centres, especially genetic diagnostics. I also have to explain that it is often due to the failure to address the right person to the right diagnostics that there is a duplication of various studies - the extreme case is that, for example. An MRI was performed 20 times. It was only after the visit to the genetic clinic that the disease was diagnosed and the diagnostic process ended. And that's one element. Another element, of course, is the continuation of these patients' conduct and treatment. Leading centers - yes, you know, but you also have to remember that there is a narrow specialization here, because sometimes some unique skills have some centers and others do not have them. Well, Minister, briefly, because there is not much here at this time, about the rules and the likely date of introduction of these important elements. And I'll tell you what, it's a question of drug refund, because these drugs are, as we know, very expensive. How do you see this from this side of the story? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u68	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the plan for rare diseases is an area, as the Member himself pointed out, in which we have a gap to fill. It is worth pointing out that the area of rare diseases, even at the levels of the European Union, at the level of the European Parliament, the European Council, has been recognised a long time ago. Not only has it been noticed - the Member States have in some way been obliged... a Council Recommendation of 8 June 2009 on the development of a plan or strategy for rare diseases has been issued. As you can see, it's been 12 years and we haven't seen this plan. Now we're finalizing this work. The hard work, because the plan is multi-aread, and these assumptions that we want to dedicate in this area concern very difficult areas. The Member mentioned that there are several thousand sick units. They concern in total small groups, narrow in the case of a single disease unit, but in general we say that we can have 2 and 3 million people with a rare disease in Poland. It's a large group of people who are very difficult to diagnose, because it's really hard for doctors, whether at the basic level or even at the specialist level, to pick it up at the diagnostic level and qualify the patient as a suitable disease group. It is also difficult to treat, because therapeutic methods for rare diseases are obviously limited. Therefore, such a plan is needed - a plan that will tell us how to improve the situation in the diagnostic area, how to improve the situation in the therapeutic area, how to improve the situation in the area of communication with the patient. We started working on this plan or on it, let's say, operating at a somewhat unlucky moment, because right before the pandemic. We set up a team, if I remember correctly, in March or April of that year. It was a difficult time, but the band worked intensively despite the pandemic. We have been able to work out the plan's assumptions, we have been able to define specific tasks, we have been able to define specific responsibilities, we have worked out specific budgets for specific tasks. This plan was submitted for pre-consultation at the beginning of this year, later, in April 2021, included in the list of government work and 28 April, i.e. 2 months ago, was submitted for public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements. The deadline for submitting comments was 21 May 2021. Since then, unfortunately, even though it's been a month, we've been analyzing these comments. The comments are substantive and relate to difficult areas, including the drug area. We know that access to drug therapy in the area of rare diseases is difficult, the results of clinical trials are often residual, scientific evidence is very limited, and therefore the procedures for assessing these drugs before the refund is implemented are complicated. We are proposing some simplifications, but they obviously raised doubts as to whether they required clarification by experts, certain solutions which were put forward in the course of submitting comments primarily by, and it is worth mentioning, patient organisations, patient associations. They have been involved in drawing up these comments, have had a huge impact on this, and in these areas they would like to clarify some more. I believe that really soon - the next time I define it as no longer than a month - this project will be handed over to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and that the holiday will be the moment when the Council of Ministers will adopt a plan for rare diseases. It is worth mentioning, since I have 2 minutes, that the plan for rare diseases is not just a task, as I said, these are not specific areas. There are six areas. Maybe I'll start with that. It's very important. Rare disease expert centres. We want to designate these centres, show their references, also show patients where centres can count on diagnostics and comprehensive treatment. These centres are to meet the highest standards. Today, as Poland, we already have dozens of centres for the treatment of rare diseases qualified for European networks, qualified for the highest level of treatment. These are often pediatric centres for which rare diseases pose a significant challenge. The second area of this plan - I don't know if it's the most important - is the diagnosis of rare diseases. Today 80% rare diseases are genetic in nature. Diagnostic methods have progressed enormously in recent years. We need to keep up with this progress at the level of infrastructure support - such tasks are foreseen in the plan - and at the level of qualifying these benefits to the guaranteed benefits basket to enable individuals to settle them. The next areas are access to the medicines and special nutritional measures I mentioned and, above all, to facilitate the implementation procedures for refunds. There is an area of the rare disease registry and there are two areas that cared very much for patients, i.e. the information platform and the associated patient passport, i.e. de facto it is the provision of one reliable information channel for patients. They will be able to go from the level of diagnosis to the treatment, see which centres they specialize in, learn more about rare diseases. It is also an information portal for POZ doctors, for specialists who may not be dealing with rare diseases every day as such an educational portal. The plan isn't just about the tasks, it's about the money, the resources that follow it. We estimate that the size of the budget of this plan is about 130 million PLN, but these are not all the expenses we want to spend on rare diseases, it is very important. These are expenses that literally involve certain tasks in the plan. On the other hand, he called the Medical Fund, and there are also guaranteed measures, in particular for innovative drug therapies in rare diseases, and there these mechanisms are applied, plus, of course, the current measures of the National Health Fund. When we talk about extending the procedures that are feasible, we assume that in the area of genetic diagnosis the National Health Fund will invest between PLN 30 million and PLN 50 million annually, you can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Czesław Hoc. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, applause and congratulations to the plan for rare diseases. Finally, maybe patients with rare diseases, parents of patients will not wander through the system and will not feel lost or marginalized in some way. This is a very serious, even breakthrough moment for people who suffer from rare diseases. As the Minister said, however, these are not rare diseases, since in Poland ca. Two to three million people suffer from these diseases, rare diseases. That's one thing. But, of course, it's coming up. a comprehensive model of treatment or treatment and diagnosis of rare diseases. We already have some successes, even breakthroughs, connected with, for example, spinal muscle atrophy, SMA. So we have a model practical program to treat this disease. Model even in terms of not only European but also global, because all patients who suffer from SMA, or spinal muscle atrophy, are included in the reimbursement therapy of a very expensive medicine nusinersen. Yeah, it's really a breakthrough, and I'm congratulating you, too. We have introduced a pilot screening program towards SMA, so that's a really powerful challenge, because this has been the most common cause of death for children up to 2 years of age for genetic reasons, and so we have a great achievement. On the other hand, the Minister also mentioned the Medical Fund in terms of rare diseases. My question concerns these passports and the Polish register of rare diseases. When can we expect, during such a timely period, passports of patients of rare diseases and the Polish register of rare diseases? This is also a very important issue for patients with rare diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u72	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u73	Thank you for that additional question. Indeed, we are already entering certain details of the program, but surely it is worth paying attention to this... Well, congratulations and applause belong primarily to the team of experts who worked on it, so I'll redirect them. I hope that we are on the last line, that we have shown determination and that this plan will be finally adopted, because, as Mr Latos said earlier, many years have already been mentioned and no one has been able to complete it before. About the medical fund. The Medical Fund is PLN 4 billion a year. It's a big fund, one of the key pillars of which is the program, the drug therapy fund. The absolute priority of the Medical Fund is the support of pediatrics, rare diseases and oncology. These three areas are listed in the Act as the most important ones for support. And indeed, the first works have already been completed. The Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification has prepared a list of innovative therapies that can be financed by the Medical Fund. We've never had that kind of action before. It is such a specific analysis of the gap, of what has been registered by the EMA at European Union level, and which we have not implemented in Poland for refunds. Already in this first list, in which we point out as well as I remember, the final eight drug therapies - perhaps it would have to be clarified - are mostly therapies related to the treatment of rare diseases. This is the area that the Medical Fund will certainly support the system solutions that were in this law and financial solutions, because we assume that the Medical Fund can allocate about 700 to 800 million PLN per year for drug therapies. About the passport and the register. Passports are primarily solutions that we will want to embed into the patient's online account. This is above all an additional functionality of the IKP, in which we define it. We assume that next year is the moment when we can use this module in the IKP. We're still developing the IKP. We really want to do this - generally already, abstracting from it, although in a moment there will be a second question about it - we very much want to implement the preventive module in the IKP. That's our priority. Then, according to the schedule for rare diseases, we will move on to further implementations. The register is also an important assumption. We would like to re-create it, in fact, on the basis of the experience we have with rare diseases registers. Today it is primarily a register of congenital defects, which is kept in the area of rare diseases. We want to benefit from these experiences. On the other hand, it will be the implementation of a central, large medical register, so these IT works unfortunately need to take some time. We assume that in 2023 this register will be launched. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. Information for Mr Adam Szłapka and Mr Olszewski - it is not there - which we just received from KPRM: Minister Cieszyński will not come to the Sejm because your secretary has given him the wrong date. Therefore, honourable Member, I would like to say that, however, it has turned out that the cause is trivial, and the Minister should be more concerned with fulfilling his duties in the High House. [[Applause]] Now we have another round of questions, also addressed to Minister Gadomski. You are the first question asked by Mariusz Trepek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Coronavirus pandemic caused fewer patients to be treated for prophylaxis. The programme is designed to reverse this trend by selecting laboratory tests for each patient. Thanks to them, you will be able to identify risk factors for diseases or detect symptoms at an earlier stage, which will significantly accelerate the diagnostic process. From 1 July each Pole over the age of 40 will have access, the possibility of using a free package of diagnostics. The programme "Prophylaxis of 40+" involves the implementation of studies in the form of packages dedicated separately for women and men and shared packages. Minister, thank you very much for this program, for this prevention to the entire Ministry of Health, and I have specific questions about this. How will individuals be able to apply for the study programme 40+? What studies will be included in the programme for women, what programme for men and what studies will be included in the joint package? How will patients be selected for the specific studies included in the package? What criteria must the institution wishing to apply to the program meet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Gadomski, please. Minister, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u77	Mr. Marshal, not yet a messenger, but maybe someday I'll aspire. We wish for a career to develop. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the 40+-prophylaxis programme has become a reality. But maybe a little history, too. This programme, on the one hand, is obviously a response to the post-pandemic challenges, is a response to a certain health debt, say, which Poles after the pandemic have. On the other hand, I am looking at Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko here, with whom we worked on this programme earlier, even before the pandemic. In fact, it was a pandemic that in some ways prevented its effective launch earlier, because we had assumptions prepared more than a year ago. I think this program is perfect for today. Such a health check of Poles is extremely necessary also after these certain perturbations connected with access to the doctor, television, teleporade or not taking them, etc. I think that in recent days we have also shown other solutions, which are important for us in this area, for example, related to the POZ remuneration system or to the organizational standard in the field of teleporad. On 14 June of this year, a regulation of the Minister of Health on the pilot scheme was issued and the programme starts on 1 July, i.e. a de facto one week from now. Its primary objective is, of course, to include this group of increased risks, i.e. people aged 40 years and over, early preventive diagnostics, basic diagnosis, it needs to be made clear to itself, a basic diagnosis, which, of course, can later be implemented outside the programme under other programmes, for example preventive programmes. Like I said, people aged 40 and over are eligible for the program. It decides the calendar year, which is not the date of birth, it decides the calendar year. How do you get into the program? There are two channels of entry into the program, because the programme is generally related to diagnostic tests, while a criterion of entry is the completion of a preventive survey. It is important for us that this diagnostic package be preceded by a preventive survey, which will in some way assess the profile or risk of the patient. This survey will be filled out first of all, and this is the channel we care about most, through the patient's online account - it will appear automatically for all these patients - or by talking to a home care consultant, i.e. via the helpline. Then such a survey will be filled out by this consultant. Filling in the survey results in automatic posting of referrals. You don't have to go to any doctor, you don't have to pick up referrals. The referral will automatically be issued through the IKP and will be available in connection with the operation of e-direction for all providers who will implement this service. Providers, this is very important, are not just entities that today have a contract with the National Health Fund. The programme may also be submitted by those providers who do not currently have contracts with the NFZ. Of course, they must meet certain organisational conditions: hiring a doctor, a nurse, equipment specified in the regulation, possession of a point of collection of diagnostic materials, certain sanitary conditions, etc. If they meet the conditions, they can report to the National Health Fund. He's gonna sign a deal with them. He asked what patients could count on and what is this study package. As I said, these are basic tests: complete blood count, total cholesterol or lipid control panel, blood glucose, creatinine, urinary general examination, occult blood in faeces - an important study for us from the point of view of early diagnosis of colon cancer. In addition, the package for men will be extended to PSA, a prostate specific antigen, or prostate cancer prophylaxis. In addition, there will be such basic tests as: measurement of pressure, body weight, growth of the circumference in the belt, cardiac rhythm titration. It's also to make sure there's this contact with the medical staff. I firmly believe that, as part of this research, there will probably still be an additional interview so that medical staff will also encourage other preventive examinations. After all, we have programs in mammography, cervical cancer, cytology, colonoscopic colon cancer. This will also be the moment, in fact, that, I hope, this 40+ staff will interest patients in these additional studies. Of course, a certain result, a simplified analysis of the results of the study will also be available to patients via the patient's online account. If there are some disturbing symptoms there, then the next path will be an incentive to use the services of a primary healthcare doctor and then possibly to clarify what path, whether further diagnostic or therapeutic, should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u78	Thank you very much. As the second person, the question already raised by Minister Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u79	Dear Marshal, Minister! I think that this programme, the 40+-prophylaxis, is such a new approach to the protection of health, to public health, indicates such a new philosophy regarding the protection of the health of Poles. I'm so glad he's coming into force. Indeed, as the Minister said, the work on it has been going on for, you can say, a dozen months, while the pandemic has halted this work and, on the other hand, caused a lot of damage to the health of Poles. Therefore, this program now, at this moment, is extremely important so that we can propose research to Poles, which will allow very quickly, early diagnosis of health problems that were not recognized in the earlier period. I would like to remind you that during the pandemic period, for example, such benefits related to the medicine of work were suspended, although many health problems in these studies were diagnosed. That's why it's extremely important. Here I thank the Ministry of Health for completing these works, because Poles will be able to perform a specific panel of tests. The important thing is that this programme is characterised by such continuity, because if any irregularities are detected, it will be possible to continue, carry out such an in-depth diagnosis and implement specialized care. I will remind you that, from 1 July, what the Minister said, there has been no limit in specialized care, so here you will be able to benefit from these benefits and solve those health problems that occur during the pandemic. But I still have this question for the Minister: How many Poles will actually be able to use this survey this year? What is the estimated cost of this programme on a yearly or several-year basis? Next question: Will this programme be cyclical every year? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u80	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u81	Thank you very much. This program today is a pilot program, actually. It is a program in which we also want to gather some experience, and about this diagnostic panel, and about the actual costs. Today, these estimates, which we presented in the impact assessment of regulation, are clearly burdened with a high risk of error. First of all, each Pole can benefit from the age of 40. There is no upper age limit here, so de facto the entire population of Poles 40+ can benefit from this program. We, of course, assume with caution that it will not be so broad, but we have resources for it in some sense unlimited. We're ready to increase them. Today we estimate that this program should close in about PLN 300 million. It is still very important from the point of view of this programme - as you have said - that this prevention is very important. This program is not the only thing we want to propose in prevention. It's very important. We've already announced a competition about a month ago for a significant extension of the availability of low-dose CT scans for lung cancer. This is a screening program, which earlier, in 2019, we started piloting, de facto in a sense as an innovation on a European scale. We are the third country, or the second country, which in 2019 joined such a screening program for lung cancer diagnosis. Without waiting for an evaluation of this programme, we decided today to expand it using the resources of the National Oncology Strategy, thinking that indeed in the case of lung cancer, whose development gallops and which requires early detection, after a pandemic period, this is a particularly important task. As far as other changes in prevention programmes are concerned, this year we will propose a incentive system for POZ doctors, which we want to reward for the fact that the population they are caring for has a high level of reporting in terms of preventive research. It's about three programs I've been talking about about finding breast cancer, mammography, cytology for cervical cancer and colonoscopy for colon cancer. I would approach this in such a way that this year we will propose a incentive system, but I assume that this is the first step towards introducing an evaluation system, i.e. motivating these POZ teams, where reporting is optimal and greater, and unfortunately punishing those teams for which reporting is low. In our view, the very important role of POZ doctor is just to focus on prevention, to reach out to your patients with the message that research is very important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u82	Thank you very much. And the last series of questions. The first question will be asked by Marta Kubiak, and the answer to the question will be - she is present - Minister Małgorzata Golińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! National parks have been the most important element of the nature protection system in Poland for years. They were created in areas with specific natural and cultural values. At the same time, these areas are covered by the highest form of protection, and are largely also made available to people. Visiting and tourism is possible in national parks. After all, this is an excellent opportunity for a wide range of natural education. All this is taken care of by park workers, who are undoubtedly specialists in their field, but also their tasks include: conservation of natural resources, scientific research, education and the provision of protected heritage in parks. As we have recently heard the announcement of a new law on national parks, and knowing that many problems of operation have already been reported by employees, including previous governments, while their appeals were then without an echo, I am addressing the question to the Minister. Has the current government taken action so far, and if so, what to respond to the votes of national park workers? I also have a second question. Is the new law a chance to better and more effectively inform citizens of our country, but also residents of other countries about the beauty and wealth of Polish nature protected in national parks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u84	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask you to answer the questions asked by Minister Małgorzata Golińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanking for this question, I would like to point out that in fact the subject of nature conservation in recent times is becoming a subject that is increasingly addressed by politicians, and very well. It is worth noting that the Government of the United Right has been seeking to improve the functioning of national parks since 2015 and improve the financial situation of these entities, including in particular the increase in salaries of employees of national parks. Such actions are possible, among others. by increasing the wage limit and increasing the amount of the budget subsidy. And here it is worth noting that during the years 2008, 2014, i.e. during the reign of our predecessors from the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the salary limit of the employees of national parks was not increased, which made it impossible to increase salaries. The same was true of the budget subsidies allocated to the current national parks, including the years 2012 and 2014, since previously the parks were fully subsidised from the state budget. This is not enough, it is worth pointing out that in 2014 the budget grant for parks was reduced by PLN 1 million. On the other hand, at the time when the Law and Justice embraced governments, already in 2016 the grant for parks increased by almost PLN 4.5 million, while at the same time increasing the total salary limit for employees of national parks by more than 10%. A further increase in both the budget subsidy and the salary limit for park workers took place in 2017. The grant for parks intended to increase the salary of park workers increased by PLN 1 million, while the salary limit of each park's employees increased by another 10%. In addition, in 2019 the remuneration limit for park workers was increased by an average of almost 4%. In 2020 the budget subsidy for parks was again increased by more than 800,000. zł, again the salary limit of each national park has been increased by 10%. In addition, due to the difficult covid situation and the loss of parks caused by the pandemic park, over PLN 5 million of special subsidies were received from the state budget. This shows, if we summarize the data for the period from 2015, that the target grant of the state budget for the current national parks increased by more than PLN 6 million. The wage limit has increased by more than 30%. The average salary of employees increased by about 800 PLN. This shows that the Government of the United Right is not only making every effort to improve the working conditions of national parks, but also doing so effectively. This, of course, is still not enough, of course it is not enough, but I stress that we are catching up on previous years. It is also worth pointing out that national parks used and can still use the forest fund to carry out their tasks in the years 2015 and 2020. The annual total amount for this purpose was PLN 35.70 million. Work is currently underway to prepare a draft law on national parks. This project responds to the identified challenges and needs that national park workers are currently discussing. We want to aggregate in a single legal act the provisions relating to the functioning of national parks both as forms of nature conservation and as organisational and legal entities. It is also worth noting that our highest form of nature conservation, which we all pride and praise, has not yet had a dedicated law. She used entries in other legal acts, mainly in the Nature Conservation Act. Moreover, in more than a hundred legal acts, the theme of national parks was regulated to a lesser or greater extent. In this context, this law is also intended to set out purely formal legal issues. The aim of this regulation is to fully standardise the activities of parks as institutional entities managing this highest form of nature conservation. Therefore, this act will define the tasks and principles of the activities of the parks, but also their organisation. It will contain legal standards for improving supervision of the functioning of national parks. We plan to create a new entity - Polish National Parks as a coherent unit. They will include the management of Polish National Parks and all national parks. As a result, Polish parks will become a state legal entity. There will be some kind of centralisation in the structure, which will give the opportunity not only to improve decision-making in substantive or administrative matters, but also financial flows between those parks which are in a better financial position and those which are in a worse financial situation. Not much, it is this management that will be able to comprehensively promote national parks both in the country and in the world. Today, every park promotes itself, while we as a country do not have the full opportunity to boast abroad about how these parks function, how we protect nature and how we could really learn from us other countries, especially those who have already destroyed nature in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Thank you very much for this good information, because the fact that national parks will have their own separate bill, a law that will exclude them from the general rules on nature conservation, is very important news because national parks fulfil a very important function. I know what I'm talking about, because I live in the Magurski National Park, and in my district there are also the Pieniński National Park, the Tatra National Park. These are the most beautiful areas, special areas. But when we talk about the fact that these areas should be and are made available to people, we also have to pay attention to the fact that, for example. The Magurski National Park was founded just over 25 years ago. He will just celebrate his jubilee. That's where people lived, especially in a huddle, and that's where problems often arise. But I would like to draw attention to what the workers are certainly paying attention to. It's about pay. E.g. in the case of the Magur park, which was created, was excluded from the State Forests - in total 90% Magurian park These are forests - suddenly it turns out that the wages of the employees of the State Forests and the earnings of the employees of the parks are... It is not enough to say that these earnings are lower, because they are several times lower than those in the State Forests. Of course, forests have different characteristics, but national parks play a very important role for all of us. I am therefore very pleased that the Government of the United Right has been trying to improve these salaries since its previous term of office. And an extra question. Minister, I ask what the assurances have been so far. The point is that workers of national parks, for example in the field of lump sums, were not to be taxed, as were foresters employed in the State Forests. Has this been realized yet? Because it was announced. And also in terms of this management. Are you in charge of management... The point is, they're protecting a very important area. Is there any way they just don't have to worry about every dollar for the next day? Because I know that the funds from the forest fund, which are also allocated to individual parks through competitions, are not always so shared that this money is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u88	Thank you very much, Member. And again, I ask Minister Małgorzata Golinska to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! In fact, these problems of park workers and this discrepancy between earnings in State Forests and national parks are felt, reported and reported. There is a kind of expectation that we will strive to make up for these earnings. Of course, as I said before, we have already taken such action. I hope that, with the entry into force of the new law, we will be able to increase subsidies for national parks once again, which will translate into employees' earnings. This is one of the fundamental issues that we had in mind when we decided to work on this law. But this bill is supposed to solve other problems as well. Among other things, we want to enable parks to conduct tenders limited to the lease of real estate, such as meadows. This is an example of the Biebrza National Park or the Słowiński National Park, or the Warty Outpost. This is important from the point of view of local farmers who, using the opportunity to reach the areas in the national park, can graze their animals, and from the point of view of the park, this is a necessary protective action. Unfortunately, until now, farmers have often lost these tenders to lawyers from large cities, Warsaw or Poznań. So this is the first thing. Second thing. We're going to want all the park workers -- and there's about 1500 of them -- that's, in fact, 1,500 people on a national scale, they manage, protect, take care of our best interests -- to become a national park service. Today there is a division between them, some of them are in the service, some are out. We want these workers to become an elite in our country, so that they can all be in the service of the national park, but that they also enjoy some kind of privilege. It goes on, among other things. the issues that you have asked about, namely the flat-rate exemption for the use of your own vehicle for business purposes... the exemption from this flat-rate tax in the case of a vehicle which is used for business purposes. We also want them to be uniformed uniformly, so that anyone who meets a national park worker on the street, a national park worker, knows that these are the ones who look after the park. We also want to introduce an opportunity that... Oh, another thing I'd like to say. I will aim to ensure that in this elite of executive positions, there are no persons who have cooperated with the security services in the previous system. This is also - I think - one of the most important issues. The final shape of this project is still not developed. Today, together with Minister Kurtyka, we visit national parks, meet with employees, discuss and continue to collect comments and suggestions on what should be included in this project. We want these solutions to be comprehensive so that we do not need to amend the laws every few years, at the moment when someone finds that something has been omitted. I think that these solutions will be not only beneficial from the point of view of workers, but also beneficial from the point of view of supervision by the Minister of Climate and Environment today, as well as from the point of view of the government or the President of the Republic of Poland, because we abroad will be able to promote not only Polish cultural heritage but also Polish natural heritage more effectively. We have great support from both the Prime Minister and the President, so I hope that this year, at the end of the year, I hope that in December, we will have a ready project for Parliament's work. I am already calling on all Members to support this proposal today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. This concludes the discussion of item 16 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. We'll move on to the next one in five minutes, because that's what I'm calling the break time. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 33 hrs. 11 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider information on the actions taken by the Minister of Family and Social Policy in the area of demographic policy aimed at improving childhood in Poland, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the biggest challenges facing Polish society in the coming decades is the shrinking population in Poland. The shrinking population of Poland results in major changes. This is primarily a change in demographic structure, which is an ageing population, which consequently has a very negative impact on economic growth, the lack of people of working age, reduced innovation, because young generations bring inventions and new technologies, the decline in domestic demand and consumption, and ultimately the negative impact on the pension system. Law and Justice has been implementing family policies since 2016 mainly in the area of better financial support for families. All families raising children up to 18 years of age have benefited from the 500+ and the good start. In this way, the standard of living, especially families with three and more children, has been greatly improved. Between 2016 and 2017 around 100,000 were born in Poland. more children than the CSO forecast for these years. The financial situation of families certainly consisted of a very good situation on the labour market, low unemployment, an increase in wages, an increase in the lowest wage by almost 40%, an increase in the hourly rate several times, exemption of young Poles from income tax, a reduction in income tax of 1% all or finally measures aimed at supporting seniors, 13th and 14th pensions. We assessed the impact of this better financial situation on the family's decision to have a first or another child. This has led us to the conclusion that we need to widen the spectrum of activities in this area in order to get out of the trap of low childhood. Forecasts indicate that if we do not address the social problem of population decline immediately, these phenomena will accelerate in the coming years at such a rate that we will be the oldest society in the European Union. Action should therefore be taken to counter the trend of population decline in Poland. In order to ensure generation replacement, it is important to take thoughtful, stable, coherent, comprehensive family policies. In November 2019 a government representative for demographic policy was appointed. One of the tasks of the proxy is to prepare a demographic strategy, the main purpose of which will be to raise children in Poland. With this in mind, I would like to ask you to present the current information on this matter, taking into account the actions planned within the framework of the Polish Order. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u92	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Minister of Family and Social Policy for Ms Marlena Maląg.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u93	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Strengthening Polish families, as you said, is a priority for the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right. Since 2015, when we embraced the government, the family has become the center of life, the family is at the centre of attention. It is about the flagship programs that have been introduced, which have made the financial situation of Polish families radically different, so programs of the family 500+ Today it is a card that is in the mCitizen app. All these actions are over PLN 152 billion. It's the money we found despite our predecessors saying there's no money for it and there won't be. [[Applause]] No, that money is there, and there's gonna be more and more of them. There will be more and more of them, because it is our responsibility to invest in the family, because the family is the future. We are talking about families with small children, a demographic trap, as you mentioned, but we are also not forgetting the seniors. It's about these senior packages. Only for this year there is an additional 36 billion PLN, not to mention the Polish Łada, which will improve the situation. Also legislative solutions, which have been prepared over the last time, were intended primarily to serve Polish families. These are amendments to the laws on benefits related to support for families. But family policies must be implemented in a coalition. Government, strategic ideas, strategic actions, secure resources. And we create a coalition. We do this by creating a good climate around families, through a culture of family policies with NGOs. For the second time this year, the competition is held first Family!, thanks to which we want to develop a culture of pro-family politics. The strengthening of these activities is also included in the Polish Lodz, mainly through greater budgeting. Further actions are being carried out. This was announced a few weeks ago by Polish Load. The Polish Load, in which at every point the family is in the center of life, and it is realized through specific instruments which were presented there. What instruments are needed and what is needed for young people to make decisions about starting a family to get married to have a first and another child? It is primarily housing policy - a coherent, systematic, consistent housing policy. A housing programme with its own contribution guaranteed by the State of up to 100,000. zł - this program has a pronatistic element: if the second and the next child is born, this contribution will be gradually depreciated, even to the full height. We are also introducing a completely new instrument in the field of family policies - family care capital. Family care capital is a benefit that will be granted to parents who have a second child who has 12 months of age - the idea is that between 12 and 36 months of age of the child, when the mother decides whether she is coming back to work or wants to stay at home, there is a choice. On the one hand, we are developing institutional care. The expenditure on institutional care, on day care in each municipality will be higher, because it will be over PLN 1 billion per year and parental care capital - 12 thousand. zł. This parent will decide how these funds will be distributed: whether during the 2 years after 500 PLN or for a year after 1 000 PLN. zł. These are actions which in Polish Lada are hard-written. The laws are already prepared and we will process them because they are entered in the first 100 days of work on the Polish Ład. This money is found, even though - many times I will like it - the predecessors have wasted eight years. When the childhood in Poland fell, when we entered a demographic trap, nothing was done in the field of pro-family policy, in the field of childhood. [[That's a lie, isn't it?]] [[Don't yell.]] You will be able to refer to this. Ladies and gentlemen! It was therefore developed by the team of Minister Barbara Socha, a representative for demographic policy, a demographic strategy. This is the first such document in the country that shows a strategic, comprehensive approach to family policies, so that we can first of all change the trends that are today and thus get out of the child trap. We're not getting out of the baby trap in one term. This must above all be a stable, systematic, comprehensive pro-family policy. This includes a strategy that primarily has three fundamental objectives. One of them is supporting the family. In terms of supporting the family, there are also others. for financial support. It is already well developed through the 500+ programme and programmes that we have already mentioned today, but it is also about raising the dignity of the family, creating a good climate around the family. Family care capital is also there, but the important aim of this strategy is also to eliminate barriers to decision-making to give birth to children. Here is a very important thing: these are changes that we will propose, which we will mainly consult with Poles, because the strategy which was shown to Poles last week is now subject to extensive consultation. We will talk to Poles so that first of all we will create instruments that are needed and necessary. The strategy wasn't written down in the Minister's office as a dupe. It is supported by deep research and, in fact, by analyses of various solutions that exist in the world and which can, above all, contribute to the fact that at the end of our strategy, the fertility rate will rise to 1.8 - today we have 1.36 - thanks to the 500+ family programme, because if this was not the case, we would actually have a dramatic situation. The demographic strategy is primarily a comprehensive approach and comprehensive solutions also in the area of the Labour Code, i.e. the creation of mechanisms that allow young parents to decide whether they are coming back to work. They have stability in the labour market, so it is the protection of the job of both the woman and the father of the child. If this is a marriage, then protection is from the moment the information about pregnancy appears. The demographic strategy is a comprehensive action that will allow our country to implement step by step the instruments that are proposed above all to break this negative deadlock. We are fully aware that these actions are necessary, necessary. This document will be consulted with Poles so that we can introduce it step by step. The first element is parental capital, apartments with guaranteed own contribution. We will now be discussing changes to the Labour Code, but we also need a family-friendly tax policy. Above all, we want to guarantee in the legislative amendments that will be introduced, because it is necessary that, first of all, we create mechanisms that allow these young people's dreams to be realized. Studies have made it clear that 98% young Poles want to have children, over 40% I want to have more than two children, and that's our job - and that's what we do effectively from the moment we embraced governments - is to create instruments that will create this good climate so that the family is at the heart of life and attention. Raising the dignity of the family - it is above all that we realize all the time and we will continue to realize. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u94	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire for Minister Barbara Socha to speak in this time package? At the same time, I would like to inform Members that 49 people have joined the questions, which means that not all of them would have the chance to ask a question, unless the High House agrees to limit the time for the question to 1 minute with tolerance, and then there is a chance... [[It's okay.]] [[No.]] There isn't. That's two minutes and rigorously. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] [[Speech outside the microphone]] I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly - first, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for his appointment as a proxy, for commissioning this important task, which was to prepare the strategy, as well as the present Minister Marlena Maląg, for support for the whole year and a half of our work. Today I have a sense of great satisfaction and joy that we have managed to create this project, because I point out that it is a project - a project of demographic strategy that defines the directions in which we want to act as a country, so as to strengthen families, to remove barriers and to raise the governance system of these policies. We propose over 100 directions of action in the 12 areas identified (The Bell), which have the greatest impact on childhood. I'd be happy to answer all your questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? [[It's not like we're shortening time anymore.]] You are registered as Members. Then I'll close the list of speakers in a minute. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko a question. I will remind you of the rules: 1 minute with tolerance for each person. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u97	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, An ageing society is a challenge not only for the Polish government, but for many governments in the world. Thank you, ladies, for preparing this important strategy. The Minister has identified many areas within which we will strengthen our Polish families, so that the decision to take motherhood, about motherhood, is made as often as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! As a person who has been in charge of health care for many, many years, I would like to draw attention to this health component. In the strategy, you have included a broad area on strengthening the health of Poles. This is extremely important. In the last 5 years, the government has taken concrete measures to improve the health of Poles, because health also depends on childhood, among others. by increasing expenditure on health care, investment in staff, in the implementation of many preventive programmes, which were dedicated to the health of Poles. I have a question: Is this strategy (the bell) also intended to continue these health-promoting activities or implement new activities which have not yet been implemented and which are largely dependent on childhood? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u98	The question will be asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Really, you're the constitutional minister. It's a shame to lie like that on that Seymour's stand. [[Applause]] It looks like you're... You're saying that pro-family policy really started when you started ruling, after 2015. And do you know the rules we've introduced, for example? Talking about a year's parental leave? Do you even know a year's parental leave, one of the longest in Europe? It was the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL that introduced these vacations. Next thing you know, the Little Man program. You're talking about daycare. Did you know that after your governments in 2007 those daycare centers were 373, and when you took over our governments, there were 2762 of them? It was a program called "The Little Man." What have you done with the program? Nanny. Are you familiar with the possibility of young nannies being hired by their parents to take care of their children? What did you do? Since 2018, you have reduced the funding for hiring nannies by half. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two sentences. Apartment for young people - 250 thousand. Young people have benefited from this program, you have eliminated it. Not much, today you want to save on a glass of milk, fruit and vegetables, which are delivered to Polish schools, up to 14 thousand. Polish schools. That's what you want to do. This is your demographic policy. There are some things I can praise, and I can afford to say that from that seymoral platform. I praise the 500+ program, I praise the 300+ program, but also praise the free textbooks that it's also a good program. I ask for honesty in social policy, telling the truth, not lying. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u100	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We have just heard information from representatives of the Ministry of Labour about childhood. To be honest, I am very disappointed because I expected that what we will learn will be some in-depth analysis of the demographic situation in Poland and recognition of the fact that we have a very serious problem. The 500+ program, which is of course a good program, has not helped children. Therefore, there is a really intense response to this, and here we have just learned that you have a strategy that you will consult, but really... [[You have to read it.]] ...what's supposed to be in this strategy, we don't know. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry will support the draft law that I have tabled, a law that is intended to increase the size of paternity leave. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the implementation of the EU Directive in order to strike a balance between working and private life of parents and carers. In the European Union, such a policy is being pursued and it is recognised that one of the problems of low childhood is that women who want to work must be sure that they can really reconcile these roles, professionally and homely. Extending paternity leave is a way for women to be more confident about it, then they will be more willing to have children. I therefore submitted such a bill. I hope he's already in your department and I'm counting on your support, all the more so... [[Madame, it's time.]] ...we must implement the EU directive. Thank you very much, Member. She's been waiting for two years. Thank you, Marshal. Sorry about the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u102	The question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, I am extremely disappointed by what I heard here today, because I have heard virtually nothing, except what has been said for six years: 500+, 500+, 500+. The Member here mentioned various forms of support, but it does not work, it has no effect, it is getting worse every year and saying that we are... But it didn't work, so we have to move forward and show what the perspective is. You're saying today that we have a program, we're going to start introducing it, but it's not going to work in one term, give us two more terms, that's when it's going to work. Two terms lost and two more. So when's that gonna happen? The predecessors didn't do anything, and you're still repeating it, and I think it's been said a dozen times here: 500+, 500+. It is time to stop with demagogy, driving around Poland and telling stupidity (Dawn), we need to deal with pro-family politics, we need good programs to support young people, and we don't need to tell such nonsense as those we hear here today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u104	The question will now be asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, I'm listening to this and I'm fucking hitting it. How can you say such stupid things? These programs are a complete failure, there is no increase in childhood - neither your program nor your programs. Think of why 100 years ago a man could have... The growth was much higher and there were no aid programs, no help to families, no milk glasses, no 500+ etc. It wasn't! [[The family was normal - man and woman.]] Why? Because years ago, 120 men could have kept their wife and five children out of work, so low were their taxes. Today we have so much wealth that if it weren't for these taxes, a man could hold four wives and twenty children, but he can't because he's tax-covered. Why aren't you talking about freeing women from three jobs? After all, right now, if you're saying a year off is a good idea, 50 years off for a woman would be an even better idea. As a result, women could take care of the house and the children, not work three jobs (the bell): in the office or... Ladybugs, at home, and yet as a supply man. Women must be freed from the burden of work so that they can take care of their children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u106	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u107	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It follows from the words of representatives of the government, representatives of Law and Justice that Law and Justice pursue prodemographic policy in a large part, or even mostly, in the form of financial support. It is worth recalling that by the end of 2020 over PLN 134 billion had been allocated to the 500+ programme. I remember Prime Minister Beata Szydło from this speaker said that this is also a demographic support programme to stimulate childhood. What are the effects? In 2020, around 360 thousand were born. children, less than in 2015, i.e. before the introduction of this programme. This is a measure of success, Minister, a measure of success that we cannot see. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Basic issues such as child care, education, the possibility of combining work with parental responsibilities, housing policy were completely forgotten... [[Voice from the hall: Many young women have left.]] [[You've driven so many women out.]] Don't argue. Ladies and gentlemen! Prodemographic policy must be comprehensive. Don't argue. I would ask the Minister to come here and tell you how you will pursue prodemographic policy in a comprehensive and not selective way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u108	The question will be asked by Barbara Bartus. [[Read the project.]] Please do not disturb people who ask questions because they still have limited time. [[No culture, Mr. Marshal, no culture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Like the Member said, policies should be comprehensive. I am surprised and outraged to see Members of the Civic Platform and Members of the PSL, who go out and say that there is not enough, now too much. You've done so much? Yeah, you guys have done a lot of things over the last eight years to make babies fall. It was your economic policy that we were talking about... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...it was to drive young families abroad to make money off a dishwasher in London. [[Applause]] [[Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: They had the right.]] That's where the kids were born. In Poland, children were not born. Ladies and gentlemen! I think everyone knows that in order for children to be born, it has to be this basic cell, which is the family: Mom and Dad. Not parent one and parent two, mom and dad. But all the research shows that for a family to decide for another child, it must be guaranteed safety, financial security. That's why these programs are so important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Thank you for all these financial programmes that support families, but also those aimed at the elderly. It's a mother of 4+, a woman, who's gonna earn it by having at least four children, and she can count on her retirement in the future. That's why it's so important. And what is very important, and what are you not paying attention to? And even though we've restored women's retirement age to 60 years old, [[Applause]] That grandmothers can take care of their grandkids. The pro-family programme, the children's programme must be comprehensive and such a comprehensive programme has been prepared and implemented since 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But 120 years ago there was no retirement.]] [[And who gave you the floor?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u110	Thank you. The question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer. And I would very much like to ask you to allow me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! First of all, demography is unfortunately death and birth. Therefore, I have two questions. First of all, why does Poland have such a tragic death account in the last year, from March to April? Let me remind you that we are second to the highest number of deaths after the Czech Republic. Czech Republic is 27.6% In the case of Poland... Excuse me, Member. I ask Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikkey not to be insulted. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: You insult us by saying these stupid things.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: And let him wear a mask.]] Mr. Marshal, I don't care. Okay, once again: note that during the pandemic Poland had the second worst result in terms of additional mortality in the Czech Republic. More than 1/4 more Poles died than in the normal next few years. Let us note that in the case of other countries affected by the pandemic, there is a mortality (the Bell) of several percent, and the European average is 14.5%. What does that mean? That means you haven't been able to handle the pandemic at all. And second question: How many children were born because of your program of naprotechnology, which you proposed for several million zlotys? [[Voice from the O.R.: There is no such thing.]] You've already finished it, but how many babies were born at the time it lasted, in relation to the in vitro program, where 22,000 were born. Children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u112	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to refer to the recent statements made by your Government Plenipotentiary on demographic policy, Mrs Barbara Sochy, because this vision you are drawing is very disturbing and shows that you have no idea what you have to deal with. What are you doing? First of all, in one of the articles for Rzeczpospolita, you are depreciating day care. You discourage women from working and promote men as the only breadwinners of the family. You also promote privileged marriages over other relationships. This shows that you are not at all learning from other European countries, which are also in the demographic crisis, nor are you looking at those countries that are trying to cope with this crisis. Convincing that a man in the first years of his child should be the sole provider of the family (the bell) means in the event of separation, death, the illness of this partner for the woman of poverty and for the whole family there is no stability. The positive impact of mothers' employment is greater in countries where there is better availability of nursery care, and the second child, the Minister, is more often born in families where two parents work and not just a father. We need stable work for women, available daycare, also in price. This combination will allow us to come out of this demographic crisis, if we add it to housing. But it can't be the kind of announcements that you'd like to live in plus or another developer support program, because I assure you that we don't need any more developers, we need more children. Thank you very much. It seems to me that if you want women to have more children, you have to give them more than some conservative ideology that doesn't exist today. Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr President, please don't discipline me or rush me, because both this side of the room and this side of the room give me tolerance because of the reduced time to ask questions. Now I ask Mr Jarosław Rzepa, because Mr Andrzej Grzyb is not here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u115	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Barbara Bartus said a very important thing, she said about safety, security, which essentially affects what decisions young people make, of course, above all. This is the safety of work that can be returned to, the safety of the place where children can be given back, the sending of children at a later age, that is how these families will be able to develop, because you know that if we are young, we think, develop, invest, build, buy. This is the time. If, ladies and gentlemen, including thinking about demography, about increasing the number of Poles, it is precisely this security and perspective that will not be created by programmes that will burden the budget of the state (the bell), but this feeling will build the proper effect in the form of demography, the Minister. That's the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u116	The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 85% Poles believe that the implementation of family policies by local governments is important, while 55% Sees such action in its municipality - this is shown by the results of the Kantar agency's research. The Government of the United Right appreciates local governments working for the family, so it has established a prize for the best local governments in the framework of the Pro Familia Local Government competition. I would like to say as a former local governmentman that this is a very important programme, because we support local governments and inspire them to do even more. And demographic policy without self-government, which is closest to people, will not be complete and will not be consistent. That's why this program is very valuable. Minister, I wanted to ask you a question. Please present the achievements of local governments that have been awarded in this competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u118	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! By 2080 we will lose over 7 million, and even more people will retire at working age. This means that we are facing one of the biggest challenges in history - the fight against the demographic tsunami and the inevitable depopulation. What's the government doing? In addition to the 500+ program, whose reproductive value was quite quickly exhausted, the government does nothing. And the list of needs is still longer and longer than it was five years ago. The government's infertility program with naprotechnology is one big failure. Statistics speak for themselves. By 2018, 70 children were born thanks to naprotechnology. Then the number of pregnancies within the programme, which has 5% effectiveness, you hid, although the Polish taxpayer cost millions. You've replaced a government in vitro program that saves the fertility of the entire society, naprotechnology (The Bell), which nowhere in the world is considered to be an alternative to in vitro. And it was thanks to in vitro that more than 22,000 were born. children. The Minister repeated the old empty slogans again today: the family at the centre of attention. Then why, Minister, have you shut down a good, functioning program of our residence for young people? What did you replace him with? Yeah, you've replaced the apartment+ and the Polish wooden houses. Both programs failed completely. Tell us about it today, not about the New Deal that's supposed to cover up the old mess that once stopped in the slides. I am curious how many children have been born thanks to naprotechnology, how many apartments you have built for young people as part of the programs: Polish wooden houses and living+. That's what we want to talk about today, not about the New Deal that's supposed to cover up the old mess. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u120	The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Three lines. First of all, care for children up to the age of 3. There are government programs, European money, but there are rural communities with low own income, they are not able to carry the running of this nursery or children's club later. We talked about this in the Sejmik of Wielkopolski Voivodship. We need government support. What does the government do? He's taking the money that's for the local government, for example, as part of his tax policy. There's no compensation so far. The second point is medical care for young children. Today we have her on the phone and fast. Another, effective, this is a visit for PLN 150.300 to private doctors. Family capital is allocated to this care rather than to that financed by the National Health Fund. Apartments - you spoke about the government program, but thanks to the determination of the Left, the construction of 70,000 was included in the National Plan for Reconstruction. housing for the rental of funded (the bell) from the National Plan for Reconstruction, i.e. from the Fund for Reconstruction. I would like to ask: What is the state of completion or the start of work on this program to build cheap apartments for rent? The last issue is the functioning, coordination of the social security system. Every day in the parliamentary offices, I have intervention of mothers who do not receive 500+ benefits, and they do not receive other benefits that result from this security, because, as they claim, the voivodship office in Wielkopolska is considering these matters from 8 to 3 years. Thank you very much, sir. Today, a lady who has six children says she hasn't had these benefits in two years. Isn't there something that needs to be improved here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u122	The question will be asked by Marek Polak. [[My microphone's not working.]] [[You have to...]] Activate the mic. The card needs to be inserted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u123	I put it in. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will start with what it was polite to mention to the Minister that, contrary to popular opinion, Poles want to have children, because 98% of them declare their desire to have children, and 45% I want two and more kids. But in order for these declarations to be consistent with reality, there must, of course, be appropriate conditions. And it is very good that the government of the United Right meets these expectations and constantly introduces solutions to support Polish families, involving adequate financial resources, and pro-family policy is a priority action. This is the first time in history that we have a comprehensive, multifaceted document, which is a demographic strategy containing solutions to increase fertility in Poland, and I believe that the solutions contained in it (The Bell) will achieve the intended goal. But in order to confirm this belief, I wanted to ask the Minister: What concrete positive changes to strengthen state support for Polish families include the announced strategy, in which areas and what are the expected effects of these actions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u124	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Member. I have asked so many times not to discuss in the Chamber, because we prevent a Member from speaking in the stands. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] There you go. Thank you very much. Minister! After so many years of government, it is really good that you are dealing with or at least want to address a comprehensive demographic policy, because the programmes you presented as demographics, unfortunately - and I say this with sincere regret - are not demographics. Demographic policies, as you also mentioned, are labour market issues, housing issues, security issues, education issues, access to daycare and kindergartens, but also women's safety issues, because they must feel confident not only in an economic sense, but also free from violence to decide on motherhood. I don't know how you're going to do this, because the way you said it was just a lot of good intentions, and we really see that the realization of housing issues is going poorly. Minister, I ask you to answer in writing as well, for example, with the issue of transparency of salaries, which is to help women earn as much as men in the same positions, because we know that it is very weak with this, as with the issue of education [[♪ The bell ♪]] anti-discrimination, so that the girls want to study science, they want to study these professions of the future, and they don't feel worse in society. And the third thing. What about the fight against violence against women? Declarably so, of course you say you are fighting, but you know that attacks on the Istanbul Convention do not improve the safety of women. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] [[What does the Istanbul Convention have to do with women's safety?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u126	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Marcelina to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u127	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, During the pandemic period, there was a negative natural growth. Central Statistical Office... [[Keep your voice down.]] ...he speaks straight here: we have recorded the worst result since the beginning of such statistics. According to demographics, the situation can improve the availability of apartments, but not apartments with a loan for 30 years, only apartments for rent that can be rented, paying cheap rent. 45% people aged 18 - 34 are living with their parents because they cannot afford to move out to take a loan. Either they don't want to decide or they don't have credit. Meanwhile, what do we see in New Deal? Credit add-on, help pay off the loan. Do you really think that providing this for young people in a fragile economic situation because for 30 years they will not know if their housing situation is stable or will they be able to pay their loan instalments (the bell), that is something that will encourage young people to decide on their next children? Do you really think this is the optimal solution? Research and demographics speak directly: apartments for rent with cheap rent, not 30 years of credit. This is a solution that you should promote, not push more money into the pocket of developers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u128	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to speak. [[What's so fast? Gee, how fast that went, marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Well, Madam, housing for rent will absolutely not provide security, will not give stability to young people who want to start a family or to those who already have families and want to have more children. We want Polish families to have their own apartments. It's the only thing that's gonna make you feel safe. The Minister presented the concrete, measurable effects of the Government of Law and Justice. On the other hand, the opposition says today that it is disappointed. Disappointed. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, what was the support of the family in 2008 and 2015? The Minister of Finance's main motto? There's no money and... there won't be. Raising the retirement age, ignoring the parents' will and forcing six-year-olds to study in the first grade in school, eliminating schools, eliminating hospitals - it was this concern about the health of Poles - the liquidation of health resort laboratories, the limitation of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Medical college admissions. Those were your actions. You have no right to say today that what the Government of Law and Justice has introduced is wrong. And to the Member of the Civic Platform. Member of the Commission, 2 000. Daycare for 8 years of governance Platform is really not a feat, because we have more than 6.5 thousand today. Daycare and we'll do it three times. more resources [[Applause]] It's more than you've ever spent. You're just talking, and you've been acting sham. We show you can. And the fact that you can is contained in the 2040 demographic strategy. [[Applause]] [[Well, look how many hospitals you've wiped out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u130	Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes it's worth a look at the Dworczyk's e-mails. There is such a very interesting discussion, as you may have noticed, on Twitter about the fact that 500+ is no longer impressive on Poles. Therefore, the tight heads with Dworczyk at the head discuss with this representative of PKO BP Bank as otherwise to call this program. So we are dealing primarily with propaganda. The second and more important thing is concrete. The fertility rate in Poland in 2020 was 1,378. This is the lowest fertility rate since 2016. But I wanted to draw attention to another consequence of this low fertility rate - for starving pensions, which Poles and Poles are waiting for in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the replacement rate, i.e. the average pension-to-average wage ratio (The bell) in 2014 was 52.5%. , and by the end of 2020, it fell to 42.4%. What does that mean? In fact, it means that we are looking for starving pensions in the future, and your demographic policy, apart from these strategies, other plenipotentiaries, doesn't work at all. Get to work because... [[What do you have to do with the plenipotentiary?]] ...preparing our society for a major crisis. This crisis will be starving pensions in the future... [[What's that, anyway?]] ...and a replacement rate that's gonna keep falling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u132	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jan Szopiński to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the following question: Does our government understand the problems of a contemporary young man who faces a decision whether to become a conscious and responsible parent? In my opinion, the answer to this question is unfortunately not clear. Young people who decide to have a child take credit. The loan in terms of its future, the loan that will be repaid for a minimum of 20 years from conception and the monthly instalment is unknown to them. The guarantee of this loan must be economically and politically stable country, a country in which wages will give young people a guarantee of repayment of this loan, a country which will be predictable enough that without fear of their future these people will be able to make such an important decision for their future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, the state wants to ensure stability and security for future parents through a system of subsidies, which is still under way, where changes are being made. There is an ideological war going on in a country where there will never be a winner or a loser, but, as in any war, there will be sacrifices that can be left to them and their children at any time. No government in a civilized world managed to buy children for cash. To encourage young people to create families, they need to be given a guarantee of a safe life in a friendly country. Thank you. If this is not the case, we will not have the necessary demographic leap for the successful future of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u134	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The opposition can only criticize, complain, and do nothing else. The Government of Law and Justice makes the most of all governments of the Republic of Poland in the field of pro-family policy - otherwise today it would be drama - including actively cooperates with local governments in the field of pro-family policy, for example as part of initiatives addressed to local governments. Minister! Please provide examples of this type of action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u136	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The existence of a gap between the number of children they want to have couples and actual behaviors is simply reality. What does that tell you? These are issues of financial instability, uncertainty about the future, restrictions on housing matters, concerns of women about losing their jobs, but also the infertility of couples. Regarding infertility: you have eliminated a well-functioning in vitro program. Maybe it's worth getting back together with him, Minister. As for the housing issue, there was a housing+ programme, there were apartments for rent for people who could not afford credit. It's not nice to have a 30-year-old loan, believe me, and pay him back to his old age. So maybe it's worth going back to the idea of apartments for rent, only to implement it effectively? There's a thing you don't pay attention to at all, it's the so-called thing. the costs of motherhood, i.e. the experience of women arising from having children and problems that are related to the fact that it is difficult to return to the labour market, to develop a career (the Bell) that they must combine childcare, caring for a home with a job, because the partners are not sufficiently engaged in responsibilities. What is the answer to this challenge? This is paternity leave. Question: Minister, is this an initiative for father-only leave, minimum 2-month leave, to be chosen for them you plan to introduce? If so, when? I would add that this is still the responsibility of the Polish State because of its belonging to the European Union simply. And one last thing. I do not know if you are aware, but the ban on abortion in Poland will definitely affect the concerns of women and couples before having children. If you want to take care of the children, the comfort of women, the comfort of couples, really banning abortion is not the right way to go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u138	Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The applicant and the Minister confirmed in their statements that Poland is in a demographic trap. The reality in the area of fertility is also hopeless for this moment. Almost 100% young Poles and Poles want to have children. Not everyone can fulfill those dreams. Growth is possible fertility in Poland as a result of in vitro procedures. Minister! Question: "When will the Polish state finally reimburse young Poles and Poles for in vitro treatments?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Paul Rychlik about the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Sustainable and well-functioning families are one of the most important social resources. Families create conditions for birth, upbringing, and provide assistance and material security for its members. However, the problem of today's civilization and today's times is the breakdown of families, which leaves permanent traces in the psyche especially of children. This also results in a deterioration of the material situation, especially of women and children. In the European Union, apart from unemployment, the breakdown of families is the main cause of poverty. Lonely mothers and single fathers face many difficulties, especially when it comes to combining work and caring duties. In view of the above, Minister, I wanted to ask whether the 2040 demographic strategy for marriages and families includes support by preventing the breakdown of family ties or between parents? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the shortcut for the WWRD? Is this about early child support and family support? What's this all about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u142	I now ask the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u143	Minister! No serious, honest man, and the minister in particular, discredits the achievements of his predecessors. I will say that I am personally very surprised by your wording, you said that we did nothing about family policy. You can't say that if you're hoping for a fair debate, because you're supposed to be the minister for solving problems, not the propaganda officer for your party. You should apologize for that, really, or you shouldn't say that anymore, because it's really embarrassing. In vitro inputs. The in vitro programme solved the problem of poverty, but in the demographic sense, the birth of one extra child is 1350 thousand. zł. In vitro, a hundred times less. Talking about a major pro-family program without an in vitro program (The Bell) is ridiculous. You also broke the abortion compromise. What does that mean? That women give birth in their 30s. The risk of birth of terminally ill child increases jumping. You're always serving impulses that discourage women from having children. You can't do that. Plus, ask the experts, they'll all tell you that without a responsible, integration-oriented immigration policy, we're not gonna cover the $200,000 gap. jobs, 200,000. people who leave the labour market every year. You didn't even care about it in your strategy, because when it comes to immigration, the word "immigrant," you're afraid of him like the devil of holy water. It's time to look into your eyes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u144	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Magdalena Beyat.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your demographic strategy, the provisions contained in the diagnosis of the situation sound very promising. You write, among others.: an increase in the number of children and a disease or disability often lead to the withdrawal of a partial or total parent, mainly mothers, from the labour market. You also point out that unpaid care work remains unrecognizable. These are all valid diagnoses. Unfortunately, when we go to specific provisions of solutions, they are disappointingly general. You can see that instead of acknowledging the different needs of women, men and families in the 21st century, you see different models of family creation, you try to embed them in the only right model, which probably - I don't want to be a bad prophet here, but this is probably how it ends - it will be counterproductive, it will have the opposite effect. I have a question about the situation (the bell) in the labour market: What percentage of fathers currently benefit from paternity leave, this two-week period, and parental leave? You are talking about the situation of women in the labour market, but you are not talking about how to encourage men to take part in family life and thus increase equality and equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market. You are also paying attention, there is a point, quite laconic, about the special protection of marriage. However, according to GUS data already in 2014 about 1/5 of children were born in informal relationships. How are you going to support these children and these families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u146	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The strategy discussed today is the first such document. It is a pity that the opposition rather than using this moment for constructive proposals, to expand this document... [[That was just an offer.]] ...to expand the government's efforts, as usual, has not failed in criticism of everything and everyone. Don't threaten me with your finger. Don't disturb me, sir. In the project "Demographic Strategy 2040" we read: the demographic strategy is compatible with the "Strategy for Responsible Development" and the Polish Government. There is no doubt that stability and job security, increased flexibility in employment, play an important role in decision-making to enlarge the family. A sense of financial security while striving to develop a career is one of the most important criteria when deciding about another child (the bell) in the family. What changes in the law are needed in order to introduce flexibility and job stability for both mothers and fathers, which will, on the one hand, make it easier to combine work with childcare and, on the other hand, will not contribute to a reduction in household income and to the abandonment of professional plans and aspirations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The debate on the fertility of society should unite us, be deprived of mutual invectives, accusations and settlements. The truth is that both those programmes that were implemented by the Civic Platform and PSL government, as well as those that you are implementing as the United Right, do not produce the expected results. We need to think about what to do to achieve a demographic effect. There's been a lot of talk here about apartments, work, in vitro program. All of this needs to be signed. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister about the concrete nature of some health prevention, with some care for both men and women, girls, boys, since these early years, aimed at controlling whether through visits to the gynecologist or, in the case of men in the androloger, issues related to their condition as regards the possibility of having children. Look at it comprehensively. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen (the bell), just come to the right clinics and see that it is not that Poles do not want to have children. There are plenty of couples in Poland, thousands that simply can't. It's worthwhile to support them. You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Przemysław Koperski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to a report published in 2019 of the CBOS report, 94% Poles declare their desire to have at least one child, and 39% answer that they would like to have three or even more children. I've got three of my own. I'm a triple-happy dad. Polish people and Poles want to have children, but to want to, and to be able to These are two completely different things. Because in Poland, the government throws hundreds of administrative and economic logs at women's feet every day, not to mention the rocking of their rights by the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska. Can Polish women have more children, Minister? That's probably the question you're asking yourself, and we're all asking it. Of course I do. Polish women can have more babies and give birth. They are born in England, in the Czech Republic, in France, in those countries where women's rights are respected, and where there is real support for families. Minister Czarnek would like a model of thousands of teenage mothers in Poland (Dzinek), but the lack of education, medical support, housing, permanent and stable work, crèches is the way to hell, not that Poland has a positive demographic growth. Look at what it's like in Ireland. After all, in Ireland, the average age of women who give birth to children is 31 years old, so age is not a barrier that is insurmountable, but unfortunately a barrier is the political action that you are implementing. Unsophisticated actions, because 1/3 couples in Poland cannot have children, and you do not allow these families to have children because you have blocked the funding of the in vitro program. Thank you very much, sir. Take a step in the right direction and at least unlock this one thing next year. [[Voice from the gym: It's you... young girls who get rid of the pregnancy.]] And one last thing. Mr President, finish up. Mr. Marshal, the last question you can take on yourself. It's about the ZUS. The US is after mothers who benefit from maternity benefits. He cuts their wages and pursues them after the birth of their children. You could give an order to stop these practices in the U.S.S.S. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You're guilty of disability.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u152	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let's sort this out. By the end of 2011, the number of Polish residents began to decrease. Targeted action is needed at all times to prevent this from happening. Research has shown that the most serious barriers to family growth are financial, economic problems and uncertainty related to the possibility of combining a career with family life. The economic independence of young people must be strengthened. We have an announcement of another increase in the minimum wage. That's good, but it's also important to remember about other groups of workers with slightly higher salaries. Pro-family policy should serve as a coordinating function to bring together different institutions, different forms of support for families in their daily functioning and not just in crisis situations. It should focus on four segments: financial support, friendly labour market, family services and education issues. It is important to expand the institutional care system for children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The announced Polish Load enables the implementation of a coordinated pro-family policy. One of the actions planned is to expand the database of educational and caring facilities for the youngest children. Various programmes will be implemented, including: a programme for the school's work plan. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Go ahead and finish it, Member. The point is that schools take care of their children while their parents work. It's important that a valuable offer is prepared. And a nursery in every municipality. Self-governments who want to build daycare will receive grants. In the period from 2021, PLN 64.8 billion will be allocated to this friendly school. Thank you so much for these plans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u154	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask you to observe time discipline. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Cervical cancer is the fourth most commonly diagnosed cancer in Poland and the fourth cause of death due to cancer among women. Every year this disease takes about 2,000. Polk. Treatment even at an early stage and regardless of the method used, basically excludes the possibility of a child being born by a woman. Vaccination is a recognised and miraculous way to prevent such cancers. The vaccination of 12-year-old, 13-year-old girls fully protects them from the infection with papilloma virus. Similarly, boys are protected from the consequences of this terrible disease, because there are cancer derivatives: larynx, bladder, penis, anus. Today in Poland, one dose of such a vaccine costs 550 PLN. Three doses are needed to secure the baby. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us remember that the cost of treating these cancers is many times higher than the cost of vaccination. When will you introduce the universal refund of these vaccines?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that the government finally sees the need for a long-term strategy planning, does not close its eyes to the real challenges facing it due to the problem of lower childhood in Poland. Specific targets aren't new. For years, people have really been talking about the same needs of people who want to start a family. This has already been mentioned by my predecessors, Members of the Party Together. Financial stability, cheap apartments for rent, not on credit for 30 years, work for an indefinite period of employment, the possibility of saving the child to a nursery or a kindergarten - this should be the norm in Poland. On the other hand, I would like to raise another topic that has already been raised in the questions that have been raised. Namely, is the government planning to return to central financing of the in vitro programme? Do you still want to throw funding into local governments, which sometimes, if they have financial opportunities, take this program locally? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result of the in vitro programme, which operated until 2016, more than 22 thousand were born. children. This is the data from the end of 2019. There are still families who would like to benefit from this program and who cannot afford to pay for this procedure. Why does the government leave these families to themselves without real support? Depending on the material situation, the place of residence should not depend on the possibility of expanding the family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u158	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government sees the problem of infertility. If someone had read the strategy, which is presented to you for discussion, they would have seen that there are multi-specialist centres for fertility treatment, which are about to be close to a person, close to families, in municipalities. Today, families lose huge money to commute to specialists and spend many hours in cars. Ladies and gentlemen, these costs are disproportionate. We want this high-specialist help to be as close as possible to these people, it is important to cooperate with the local government. Ladies and gentlemen, 20% couples are struggling with the problem of infertility, and we are only talking about one method. Infertility has a multifaceted cause. These are hormonal disorders, psychophysical conditions, sometimes surgical problems, which also need to be solved. And all these specialists in one place, creating a medical consillion (the bell), should be helping these barren couples. Minister! Thank you for these efforts and I ask you very much to create a programme to support these high-specialist centres in the municipalities of the centre, but also to fund medicines that are necessary for the treatment of infertility, because these are very high costs, disproportionate to many families who are facing financial problems. And also for families of many children who also want to have more children, and there are some problems that arise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u160	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. [[Mr. Marshal, she's at a committee meeting and she's gonna be late. Will it be possible later?]] Good. Please, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, in this criticism of the Civic Platform, we should quote the famous words of the classic Bronisław Komorowski: Change your job, take credit. Today unemployment in our country is very low compared to what was under the rule of the Civic Coalition, i.e. Platform and PSL. Now I have such a specific question for the Minister, because what the Government of Law and Justice is proposing today is, above all, pro-family policy. Please answer whether today programmes relevant to the needs of young couples, such as the good start, 300+, the Mama, the Little Man, the construction of daycare facilities on a large scale... Please indicate the effects of these programmes and plans for the future in relation to their implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u163	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You want kids? Then start taking women seriously. Restore access to prenatal tests, refund them in vitro. Don't take away women's rights, don't insult us like this happens in this Seym, Mr. Terlecki. Don't send troops, territorial defense forces, military police or even special forces with telescopic sticks or gas police. Build a nursery. Make it easier for women to return to the labour market. [[Voice from the room: 6.5 thousand. Daycare.]] You want kids? Then do not laugh and clap when the messenger of the Left speaks of suicide among the young. Make them a friendly school. Don't give them national Catholic ideology. [[Voice from the hall: And you to us.]] Take the teachers seriously and remove them from the ministry of human education without culture. You want kids? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then stop protecting the pedophiles in the cassocks. Polish women are not afraid to be born in England, Belgium and all over Europe because they are respected there. But they will not have children in Poland until you start to respect us and take us seriously. [[Voice from the hall: Respect yourselves, Yachira.]] And even the biggest money won't help. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u164	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since January 2019 Poland as one of the few countries of the European Union has introduced a new standard for the organisation of perinatal care in cases involving pregnancy, childbirth, infant care, fertility and lactation. This document comprehensively describes the scope of medical activities in this area. It introduces the necessary changes in preventive benefits and health promotion activities and diagnostic studies, prenatal examinations, medical consultations of pregnant women. Standard and recent changes, which have also made midwives competent for comprehensive care of pregnant women. I wanted to say that the challenge is also to support the mother's mental condition after birth, before birth, which is why an important point, which was previously not defined as clearly as in this document, is psychological care over the pregnant woman (the bell) and the psychological consultation introduced during pregnancy. If there is any indication of psychological inability, support measures for pregnant women are immediately introduced. And my question: Will preventive and educational measures be taken to promote the pregnancy care scheme, which is included in the above mentioned organizational standard of perinatal care? The standard is very well perceived, but I think that not all women are aware of the possibilities that it gives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Aniśko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the key demographic policy instruments aimed at improving fertility in Poland should be the provision of universal access to childcare services. The guarantee of a place in a nursery or a children's club of any family raising a child under the age of 3 would make it possible to reconcile domestic and professional obligations and thus even out sex relations and potentially increase income in the family. Unfortunately, today we are still very far from providing such a guarantee of a place in a nursery or children's club for every child in Poland, and especially for children from rural areas. Last year only 15% children under the age of 3 have been taken care of in nursery and children's clubs. Only 45% The municipalities in Poland (Dzwonek) have at least one nursery, nursery or children's club. If we want to encourage Poles and Poles to start families in a wise way, these numbers must change radically. Hence my question: Does the government plan to increase support for municipalities for the construction and running of public crèches and children's clubs? [[Time.]] Are additional funds planned to be sent to municipalities which today are such nursery and children's clubs They don't? If so, how much money are we talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u169	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let us be honest: the previous governments were deaf to the needs of the family's environments and did not engage in dialogue with the public about the real needs of the family. As a longtime head of educational institutions, I remember children coming to school malnourished and sometimes hungry. It is our government, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who listens to the needs of families, listens to the opinions of pro-family and scientific circles, as an example of which is the establishment of the Family Council. Minister! Please tell us what the objectives and actions of the Family Council are and what their impact is on the pro-family policies of the United Right Government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u170	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Demographics is an area where hard data and statistics rule, not beautiful words, empty promises and lies to reality. The facts are that the population in Poland is shrinking every year. Both birth rates and fertility rates are dropping. There has even been a situation in which the least children have been born in Poland in the last few months since World War II. At the same time we noticed the most deaths in post-war history of Poland. Although over PLN 100 billion has already been spent by the Polish state on 500+, the number of births of children in Poland has fallen to the level before the introduction of this programme. In the context of the artificial success of 500+, for example, you refer to the 2014 GUS forecast, which was lower than the real birth rate in the country. At the same time, you ignore the fact that the number of births was also higher than the GUS estimates in the PO-PSL government. When will you finally present to the Poles a reliable analysis and strategy of social policy, which will be long-term not only by name? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u173	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! When we observe the rhetoric of Law and Justice and when we look at statistics, we see a huge rift, we see a lie and manipulation. You appear as a pro-family party to take care of the Polish family. How's that for statistics? I would like this reflection to be accepted at today's Sejm meeting and alarmed. Well, between April and March last year and this year most Poles died since World War II, 508 thousand. our countrymen. 350,000 were born. children, at least 12 years old. 158,000. people - that's exactly what this demographic hole is. In the first quarter of this year there were 13 thousand. We're married, $1,000. Less, it was 16,000. divorce and separation. The fertility rate in Poland is 1.3 and the minimum, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which could be chasing this unfortunate demographic hole is 2, 1. We're in an absolute demographic disaster. The issue of 135 billion PLN per 500+ has actually deepened the gap between births and deaths, especially in terms of the number of births that are falling. [[Don't lie to me.]] You do not have the right and effective policy, as in the case of the apartments you promised in your previous programme. Today 43% Young people under the age of 34 live with their parents, because the program That is why we do not believe in your assurance. It's just a matter of rhetoric. We will account for any action that will lead to a change in this fatal statistics. In all positive matters we will support... [[Time.]] ...but they must be real, not just in the form of declarations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u175	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A sense of financial security has a strong impact on the decision to have a child. This is the stability of both future parents' work. Once the child is born and parental leave is over, the issues of flexibility of work, which will allow for the combination of professional duties and childcare, become crucial. This action is also expected from fathers who are increasingly engaged in caring duties. As the announced 2040 demographic strategy assumes that the low-baby trap should be removed and that the level of generation replacement should be approached, please answer the following questions: What solutions have been taken into account in the 2040 demographic strategy for increasing working flexibility and what changes are envisaged in the Labour Code for employment guarantees for both future mothers and fathers? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u176	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u177	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Depopulation today is Poland's biggest problem, today it is the biggest challenge for the government, for parliament, also for local governments. It is worth recalling that the United Nations predicted that 24 million people would live in Poland in 2100. These are catastrophic forecasts for the economy, for society, for our country. This is particularly important for small voivodships such as Opolskie. Let me remind you that the depopulation of Opole is progressing in the most dynamic way. We are the fastest of all 16 voivodships. Therefore, in 2010 the local government of Opole Voivodship launched a very ambitious program to fight the depopulation, spending on it (Dzwonek), attention, 360 million euro. Recently, in 2020, the Supreme Audit Office examined the effectiveness, effectiveness of the public spending. I am sending to the report, Minister, and by the way I ask: Do you benefit from these rich experiences of local government from Opole, Nysa, voivodship self-government, Marshal? Because the Supreme Chamber of Control has highly assessed these actions, and at the same time stressed that there are no systemic, comprehensive actions that Opole self-governments have been calling for for for many years. The question is whether you are taking advantage of this knowledge, from these experiences, whether you are familiar with this programme of the special demographic zone and whether you are taking advantage of the knowledge of Opole local authorities. Thank you very much and I apologize for the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Here you go, Mrs Zofia Czernow. You don't have an MP? Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In her day, the Civic Platform cared mainly about business groups and people who were well placed. It was only the reform of Law and Justice in the field of 500+ and the addition of 500+ that made Polish families feel safe. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty was one of the main objectives of the 500+ programme. We know that in 2016, when this programme entered, the lowest net remuneration was PLN 1370. 1370 zł plus 500 zł per child was an increase in income by 37%. In the case of a 2-person family, the lowest salary was the 37% increase in income in the family. With two children it was (the bell) already 55%. Minister, has this goal of combating poverty been achieved and can children in the countryside enjoy, like their peers, holidays, movies, swimming pools, what they want to do in their lives and how to use their time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u180	Thank you, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Family strategy, demographic strategy - a very good idea, but also other untested ideas that are included in them. Where will you get the money for all this and how? You're not talking about it, and the devil is in the details. Women, ladies and gentlemen, these are not children's machines. If their health permits them to do so and if their conditions allow them to do so, they will certainly want to have children, but first you have to get an education and some qualifications. How is a woman supposed to get back to work if she has four kids, which we would all be very happy about, and she's gonna have a 15-year break in her career? How will she return to the labour market without being qualified without having direct contact with physical work or at all with her work? How will entrepreneurs respond to this when it comes to flexible working time, and how will these women be protected? First of all, remember the rights of women, respect and support. And tell me exactly how you want to do this. Because so far they're just general, general, general features. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u182	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Here you go, Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u183	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! As I listen to the opposition today, some representatives who want to prove that the best solution for increasing childhood is universal access to abortion, this argument seems as absurd as it used to be for the arguments of 2013, 2014, politicians of the then ruling parties who claimed that patching the demographic gap would be possible thanks to Islamic immigration. It was also absurd and thank you that the Government of Law and Justice has deviated from this wrong policy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for preparing the 2040 Demographic Strategy. I would like to draw your attention to one thing that I do not think has yet been raised today. This strategy also announced the popularization of a family-friendly culture. I think this is a very important topic. And I would like to ask you, Minister, what are the planned actions in this area. Because it's still a big challenge to make this culture more family-friendly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u185	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No government has done so much to activate young people I have as much as the government of law and justice. I would like to ask the Minister how much the number of places in care facilities for little people has increased in recent years. Recently, I had the opportunity to participate in the opening of a nursery in the municipality of Wiełeń, a small municipality in the district of Czarnkowsko-Trzcianecki. Last year, we were wondering if we could join the "Maluch+" program, because it was not known whether there was a need for such a small community for such places. Turns out there's no more seats, which is the right direction. I would also like to ask the Minister whether these programmes will be further developed. I also wanted to thank you for such places as in Błotnica in the district of Wolsztyn, where in one building within the framework of government projects connects. A nursery and a senior's house. That's a very good idea. I think it's worth developing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, Law and Justice. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, It is very good that the Polish demographic strategy is being created, it was one of the postulates which was raised by numerous experts in the discussion on the national reconstruction programme, and they said that the most important challenge for the future is Polish demography. I think that's an answer. She obviously needs to be discussed. And the obvious thing is that the family is the most important from the point of view of this Polish future. However, there is a group of dysfunctional families, but also children who do not have their families lost them for various reasons. Since 1 January of this year, the rules have changed, among others. running children's homes. The number of children in a child's home has been limited to become a real educational and educational institution, but at the same time there has been a crisis as regards foster care for families (the bell) and foster care. Here is the problem, because in many counties there is no possibility of building another center, which is an educational and educational institution, and at the same time the most effective, according to the experience of the local government, is the running of institutions within the county, so that where there is a family, even though it is dysfunctional, there is contact with it, because it completely changes the process connected with the foster care or the running of children's homes. That is why I wanted to ask whether, in this context, aid should not be increased for the construction of new care facilities. On the other hand, how do you refer to the concept of supercentres, the establishment of child and family centers from the merger of PCPRs and psycho-pedagogical counsellors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The debate about demography is also a good time to tell yourself what the pension system looks like in Poland and its future, to discuss it, because unfortunately, your policy implemented for 5 years leads to the collapse of the pension system in Poland. So that because of what you're bragging about, which is what you've done with your retirement age. It's not my idea, it's the data I got on my application from the Social Security Department. The average monthly pension paid with the FUS including the care allowance expressed in the percentage of the average salary less the compulsory social security contribution paid by the insured person in 2030 will be 48.4% , in 2040 - 37,9% , 2050 - 29.5% , in 2060 - 25.3%, in 2070 - 23.5%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to make Poles miserable. People can't afford to live because of your politics. The question is whether anyone in the government is thinking about the future when it comes to the pension system and not just about the current policy. 23% an average wage. That's what you're gonna get for retirement. [[It's best to work to the death.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u190	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is time for a summary of our debate. I think a lot of voices in this room were in agreement. We agreed that Poles in their great majority are pro-family, want to start families, want to have children. There are concrete barriers that must be overcome, which must be broken so that the dreams of Poles about a happy family can be realized. And our homeland, our economy, our society will benefit from this wealth and happiness of families, ensuring the development of future generations. I have a quote for you. Now I'm going to this very political part of our discussion. Who said that? I hope that no one in this room will have to convince how important it is for the future of Poland to avoid demographic risks. This means the need to develop family policies, to launch all the tools that really support birth growth. It is important to strengthen the conditions for linking professional activity with the raising of children. Since France, through the development of crèches and kindergartens, could improve the result of childhood from the level we have in Poland today, level 1.3 to level 1.8, it is worth it in this perspective, about 10 years from now, to set such a goal. It is an exposé of Donald Tusk from 2007 8 years, full two terms. Of course, there were initiatives in the area of family-friendly policies and no one is taking you away. Maybe we should not say as Members of the current government that nothing has been done. Very little has been done. Often these actions were apparent. There were often as many neglects, such as. in the case of family benefits, that 2 million children in general fell out of those very low then benefits supporting families. You didn't bet on family and social policy, pro-family policy. In 2014 the Council The Government's Population Council has developed a population policy that has not found any interest from the Platform and PSL government. In 2013, President Komorowski's law firm produced a document "Good climate for the family" which presented a family policy supporting childhood, but it never had executive power. And today the Government of the United Right, after all the experience we have with the financial support of families, has decided to put demographic policy issues at the most important government level. The appointment of a representative for demography, the imposition of specific tasks are absolute proof of this. And today we are in such a place that the Minister presents the demographic strategy by 2040. It is a document that has really been produced on the basis of many analyses and studies, and from Poland and abroad. These areas, the barriers that are most important in deciding on the birth of the child, were sought to be identified. These are four areas that, on the basis of all studies and all analyses, have now been sort of identified, named and described. With full responsibility I can say, because these are the announcements of the government that there are also financial resources for these purposes. This strategy is being presented today. I strongly encourage all of you to take note of this strategy. Don't tell me there's nothing there, there's no misunderstanding at all. It is published on the Ministry's website. Really, today, publicists, commentators, representatives of different backgrounds of this strategy and those proposals that are in it analyze, comment. This issue in public and private media, in expert discussions is really very often, so to speak, raised. We all found today in this Chamber that the problem is important (the bell) that Poland cannot lose its population potential. Thank you so much for your work so far. There's a consult. I think that the High Chamber will also make a positive contribution to solving the demographic problem of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] And I dream of taking off my mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u192	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Marlena Maląg... Excuse me, Minister. Excuse me. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of questions here in the courtroom. I am glad that this topic arouses emotions and interest, because it is a very important subject. I have 10 minutes to answer those dozens of questions. I will try to approach this in a fairly orderly and concise manner. Today we are talking about a demographic strategy, a proposal, a draft document which is to be a document in force, implemented, implemented over the next 20 years. For starters, what strategy isn't. It is not a document that regulates or proposes policies in all demographic areas, e.g. migration. That's what we've been talking about from the beginning. Migration policy is handled by the Ministry of Home Affairs. There is a similar document, a directional document, and it will be consistent with our demographic strategy, which is 100% devoted to problems, childish issues. Like any document of this kind, it is a directional document, and therefore in some sense a general document. We do not set out the provisions of specific solutions here, together with the impact assessment and the budgetary calculation, because the solutions in all areas proposed in the strategy must be prepared together with the appropriate resorts. The point is that the document is so comprehensive that it essentially concerns the competence of most resorts. It's an introduction. Diagnosis. You are talking about a negative natural growth, the lowest number of births since the beginning of such statistics and such issues. I'm going to quote a few basic facts because I have the impression that not all of you understand. First of all, it is the issue of natural growth understood as the difference between the number of deaths and the number of births. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of deaths today is mainly affected by births from 70, 80 years ago. Let me remind you that today we are at that time when death grows. Of course they are growing, and last year they also grew, because of the pandemic, it is obvious and we do not polemicize with it. However, even without pandemics, the number of deaths We're growing, and it's going to grow because a generation of jews is dying out. After the war 700,000 were born in Poland. children a year and today these people are beginning to die out. When it comes to the number of births, this is the number that is the result of two variables: first, the children, the average number of children born by a woman during her life, and secondly, the number of women. Today's lowest number of births, i.e. from last year, i.e. 360 thousand, is similar to the number we had in 2002, with the slight difference that at the time there were 1 million more women in Poland during the procreational age, and yet so few children were born. This shows that children in Poland are growing and not decreasing. On the other hand, the consequences of the phenomenon that we face today and in the area of fertility, and in terms of the number of absolute births, are the result of the 30th anniversary. This is not the result of this term of office or the previous term of office. This is the result of 30 years of previous governments of social policy, economic policy. I am astonished that today you are quoting an example of families, women in emigration, which 10 years ago, 15 years ago were forced to leave Poland and bear children in England, Germany and other countries. [[Applause]] - not because today is ruled by the PiS, just because this was the situation of the lack of prospects for young people in Poland. The ridiculous level of wages, huge unemployment, lack of prospects caused the young Poles to give birth on the Islands. Today we see the opposite phenomenon, we can see it clearly in the statistics of the Social Security Office and the Ministry of Finance - especially from some countries of Western Europe Poles are starting to return. So much for entry. For the purposes of this strategy, we have carried out extensive research in areas that have allowed us to clarify certain issues, because of course we have also relied on publicly available research, and those quoted here today in the year 2019 CBOS, and all previous research, including on the impact of various factors on fertility, carried out worldwide. We have relied on more than 650 sources and this is the powerful knowledge behind this concise, directional document. What a family picture is in its aspirations Poles today, this year? I'm based on research this year. We're different about family models, and some things are consistent. Poles want a family based on partnership, sharing responsibilities; families where they also have space for self-realization - this applies to both women and men; families where relationships based on love, respect, mutual care are important; families that are strongly formalized - Poles want marriage and this is a very high percentage, very strongly correlated in general with the desire to have children. Secondly, they want a family with two or three children. Third, this is a family that lives in a house in the suburbs, owns a dog - it's interesting. What we differ in these models is the question of approach to childcare, because some women think that annual parental leave is sufficient, and after this period they want to go back to work, but there is a large group of women who think that it is the minimum that they should devote to children, that is 2 years, there is finally a third group of women who think that 3 years. Yes, it is true what can be read in the media from reports of various foundations that all women in Poland want to work. It's true, they want and they work, and that's very good news. On the other hand, we differ in what time we consider optimal for our children. Therefore, in trying to take all these issues into account, we have prepared a strategy that defines the lines of action in 12 areas. One of these areas, the financial security of families, is the area that has been discussed here today very much, and I will not develop it. There is also a pension system in this area, and I regret that there is no longer a Member who asked a question about the future of the pension system. Yes, we have that in mind, we are working together with the ZUS and other experts on solutions in this area. On the other hand, the fact that the rate of replacement is getting lower and the expected rate of replacement for a pension will become lower, is mainly due to the change in demographic structure and is therefore not absolutely the result of the current government's actions. The current government, like none, has no effect on this in the short term. That's the result. It's what our predecessors have been doing for 30 years. As far as further areas are concerned, outside this financial area, where much has already been done, we are prioritising four more areas at this point - priority because, first, they have a significant impact on child-related issues, secondly, they lie in the area affected by the State, and thirdly, some action can be taken here in a relatively short time. Therefore, I am very pleased that solutions from these priority areas have already found their place in the Polish Łada, because this is a guarantee of implementation, and it is a very efficient and fast implementation. What do these areas belong to? Above all, it is a matter of housing policy. I am pleased that some of the Members here, who have asked questions, have been quoting the contents of the strategy when trying to cast some shortcomings. I strongly encourage you to read this document. The issue of housing policy is the issue 1 in these priority areas. Therefore, in Polish Lada we offer solutions designed for families at different stages of life. For those people who today are forced to live with their parents or rent apartments on the free market, we offer a flat without a contribution. Yeah, it's a solution for people who have a credit rating. But today for young Poles working there is no problem of credit - there is a problem with raising funds for own contribution. And this instrument is designed to make it easier to eliminate this barrier, which makes young people have to postpone the decision to start a family, about their offspring until they raise their own money on credit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it is true that in order for young families to feel safe, it must be housing. The issue of housing policy is also a family housing voucher - i.e. support similar to the construction of a tourist voucher - which is intended for families of many children, those who already have children today, but would be willing to expand their families even if it were not for the housing barrier. The second priority area is the family-friendly labour market. The family-friendly labour market is a market that gives you a sense of stability, and one that gives you the opportunity to... Minister, I would very much ask you to go to the end of your speech. [[Five more minutes, please.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: In conclusion - you can of course read about the details of these assumptions in the strategy - I will also talk about the forms of childcare, because this is a very important topic, by many of you. Of course, we are developing an institutional care system, there are already 200,000 in Poland. places in crèches and this is a very significant number. Of course, all municipalities that want to benefit from the grant under the "Milch' programme can do so. Thanks to the National Reconstruction Plan, the funding allocated to this programme will be three times higher. On the other hand, the important thing is that we want to support all forms of childcare, not just nursery care. This is why the announced programme is intended to support all forms of care, including crèches, because the financial availability of crèches, as you mentioned here, will increase, but there will also be certain opportunities for those parents who cannot or do not want to use crèche services. I am glad that a lot of space has been devoted to healthcare, because this is the fourth priority area for us. Here we anticipate the continuation and strengthening of all preventive measures, because overall health is a very important factor in supporting childhood. Nor do we run away from problems related to the treatment of infertility, so model procreational treatment centers will be created, which will provide a comprehensive... [[But not in vitro.]] ...diagnosis and provide treatment as suitable for... Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: ...of the couple. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u194	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u195	Dear Marshal, In Poland in 2020 355 thousand were born. children, at least since 2003. The fertility rate was slightly lower than in 2019 and was 1.41. Poland is still far from level 2.1 which guarantees the replacementability of generations. It follows that financial incentives have limited effectiveness to improve the demographic situation. There is no time to reverse negative trends. What happens to the population and, above all, changes in the structure of age, is irreversible in the perspective of 30 and 50 years. Now we can only reduce the negative dimension of these changes. Financial incentives help, but good quality education and care services, i.e. nursery, kindergarten, but also a well-organized school, are of the utmost importance. Can one of the causes of a drop in children's lives be, despite improvement, still insufficient access to nursery and kindergartens? Is the government considering introducing flexible working time and leave for mothers and fathers, which can be used not only when the child is under 3 years of age but also later? Is the government considering introducing temporary employment opportunities, withdrawing from work according to family needs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u196	We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law on alien species (prints No 1187 and 1253). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u197	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the government draft law on alien species. The draft in print No 1187 was sent to the committee on 19 May 2021 for its first reading. The Environment Commission carried out its first reading of the project on 10 June, followed by detailed work on the project, the result of which is the printing report No 1253. High Izbo! The Act implements European Union law, i.e. Regulation No 1143/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventive and remedial action with regard to the introduction and spread of invasive alien species and Commission Directive 2018/350 amending Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the risk assessment of genetically modified organisms for the environment. This first Regulation 1143/2014 entered into force on 1 January 2015 and is an essential tool for implementing the EU Biodiversity Strategy. Its use is intended to reduce the negative impact of invasive alien species on endangered species, reduce the threat to nature, prevent environmental, economic and social damage estimated in the European Union to around EUR 12 billion per year. High Izbo! In Poland, the existing system of protection against alien species operates on the basis of the regulations contained in the article. 120 of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 April 2004 and of the Regulation of the Minister for the Environment of 9 September 2011 on the list of plants and animals of alien species which, in the event of release into the natural environment, may endanger native species or natural habitats. And let me remind you that the bodies implementing these provisions are the General Environment Director and Regional Environmental Directors. High Izbo! This draft law adapts this national system for the eradication of alien species described above to the European Union standards in terms of substance and organisation, while the additional obligations arising from the implementation of Regulation 1143/2014 will be carried out by those state institutions which have so far carried out obligations in an equivalent manner. These include: General Environment Director, Regional Environmental Directors, Veterinary Inspection, State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection and Customs and Scarb Service. The project introduces e.g. new definitions of concepts such as invasive alien species, remedial actions, elimination. Mostly - 16 definitions out of 25 - refer to the Regulation 1143/2014 which I have already mentioned many times. The project also organises the division of competences between the different authorities, defines the authorities involved in issuing permits and prohibitions, maintaining the Central Data Register on Invasive Alien Species, monitoring and management of invasive alien species, carrying out border controls. The project shall lay down sanctions for non-compliance with the obligations relating to the eradication of alien species and shall ensure that the principle is implemented: the polluter shall pay by means of regulations which concern the introduction of the IGO into the environment as a result of intentional or unintentional human interference. High Izbo! Lists of invasive alien species presenting a risk to the European Union, because we have two categories according to these regulations, i.e. alien species presenting a risk to the European Union and presenting a risk to Poland, so the lists of these first invasive alien species are contained in the three implementing regulations of the European Commission: from 13 July 2016 - there are 37 species, from 12 July 2017 - includes 12 species and from 25 July 2019 - covers 17 species. The list of invasive alien species presenting a threat to Poland will be laid down in a regulation of the Council of Ministers for which the authorisation will constitute an article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the bill discussed here. High Izbo! During the committee's work on the project, 16 substantive amendments were made to this proposal. The Legislative Office of the Sejm also prepared its amendments. Both the substantive amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau and the amendments of an editorial, linguistic and legislative nature have been introduced into the project. The project as a whole was adopted by 21 votes in favour, with one vote against and four abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the draft Foreign Species Act, which is contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 1253. I didn't think your marshal would be so generous that he would grant me 15 minutes, and I prepared a speech for five minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Górski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u199	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to draft Print Act No 1187. The Foreign Species Act extends and adapts national legislation to Regulation 1143/2014 of 22 October 2014. It regulates the competences of individual central administration bodies, local governments and citizens. This law has 60 articles collected in 12 chapters that describe individual sections. In addition to the general, final and amending provisions, chapters describing the Central Data Register on Invasive Alien Species, prohibitions and authorisations concerning alien species, the treatment of those species in the environment, remedial action, remedial action taken when those species are identified in the environment, and the treatment of species which may potentially pose a risk to the European Union. There are also penalty payments, administrative penalties and criminal provisions included in this Act. During the first reading and discussion, there were doubts, mainly from the Legislative Bureau. Dear Marshal! The Club of Members of Law and Justice presents 22 amendments, which respond to these doubts. I submit them and assure you that Members of the Law and Justice will vote to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u201	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of Security Affairs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Civic Coalition Club, we believe that the introduction of a law on invasive alien species, which will adapt the Polish right to EU regulation, is undoubtedly necessary. Invasive species are a serious threat to native ecosystems. They threaten and displace indigenous species, so it's high time we put in place effective and systemic methods to combat them. Each of us probably heard of the dangerous borscht of Sosnowski and would like to have mechanisms to disable him quickly. But if you don't know what's going on, it's about money as usual. The Ministry adds new tasks to the municipalities, mainly to local authorities, which shifts responsibility for carrying out the so-called. remedial actions, but without a guarantee of additional appropriations for their implementation. The projectors were also unable to estimate the costs to be incurred in fighting the IGO. During the public consultation this was the focus of local authorities, among others. Marshal of Zachodniopomorskie Voivodship and his comments were not included by the Ministry. We are also concerned that the social side will not be able to comment on the current list of IGO species that will be issued in the form of a regulation to the law. Already at the stage of the public consultation, there were doubts from the scientific community that the current proposed list lacks an American mink, which is a major threat to our ecosystem. Therefore, as the Civic Coalition, we intend to support the draft law on printing No 1187, but we make a number of amendments which in our view eliminate the shortcomings of this project. Please accept them at the second reading at the committee meeting. More about the amendments will be told by my club friend, Mrs Moose. I'm making corrections to your marshal's hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u202	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the bill is to establish national legal standards that will prevent the undesirable impact of invasive alien species in Poland. The obligation to prepare a draft arises from a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Act will respond to the problem of the spread of invasive species, among others. such as Sosnowski's borscht. Many municipalities in Poland are fighting this invasive species. It turns out that eliminating this dangerous plant can be very costly and time-consuming. And it has to be done systematically, because it's a species that is reborn very quickly. The bill also introduces a central register of invasive alien species, an open register of IGO. In certain cases, authorisations to withdraw from the IGO statutory bans will be allowed. The bill provides that animals which are an invasive alien species may be placed in animal asylum. It is worth mentioning that the bill provides for, among others. the possibility of remedial action to prevent the spread of IGO plants and animals by the mayor, mayor or president of the city, but where the entity responsible for carrying them is not able to carry them out. However, amendments are necessary. In its current form, the bill allows for remedial action one year after receiving information from the Mayor, Mayor or Mayor of the City about the need to carry it out. It's too distant a period, if you consider vegetation. During this time, the plant can spread and pose an increasing threat. In addition, the Civic Coalition will submit an amendment which will provide the possibility to finance the remedial actions of the municipal executives from external sources. We will also introduce an obligation to display the so-called hunting records. Gunshots, wounded animals, and not found, which is important in the anti-IGO statistics. We propose to amend the Article. 11 - to the extent that the choice of the owner of the pet animal is considered to be inter alia. to be killed as contrary to the principles of Article. 5 Animal Protection Act. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club will recommend the adoption of the bill after we have tabled and adopted the amendments proposed by us. We hope that the amendments we propose will be adopted by the committee and the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u204	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've waited a long time for this bill. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 2014 on preventive and remedial measures for the introduction and spread of invasive alien species entered into force on 1 January 2015. The legal solutions currently in force in Poland are not fully in line with this Regulation. How important it is to implement rules such as preventive and remedial action in relation to the introduction and spread of invasive alien species, I don't think I need to talk. Or should we? Because you can see really enormous recklessness when it comes to introducing invasive alien species, being very reckless and not knowing which consequences can be mourned. The introduction of alien species into the natural system almost always has a negative impact on the ecosystem. It can permanently disrupt it and threaten the most valuable natural areas, but not only them, because it can also endanger important nature in cities. In fact, the problem of invasive alien species will grow, which is related to the development of trade, globalisation, trends and fashions. Even seemingly harmless, but unobtrusive species can become invasive. Let us note the consequences of this, how many national parks must fight not only against the Barszcz Sosnowski, but also against the rubble that displaces native species. It's a fight for biodiversity, which is very cumbersome. This fight requires a lot of resources and commitment. That is why we need control over the introduction of alien species into the environment, especially as we are seeing some kind of trend, fashion. Unfortunately, there is an example. the current trend among Polish local governments or entrepreneurs who dream of Oxytree plantations, apart from how much damage this plant can do to the ecosystem. Maybe I will appeal to Polish local authorities to read the opinions of scientists from the conservation council. So we need a framework to take care of our ecosystem, but for that we also need resources that should follow additional tasks, for example for regional environmental departments, local governments, voivodships, national parks and other entities. It's like the NIK repeats the mantra by examining programs to combat Caucasian borsques. It says that we do not have instruments in the Polish legal system and we do not have funding, which makes it difficult to fight against Caucasian barracks. Of course, the same applies to the fight against all invasive species. I also very much hope that this list of species to be defined in the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment, to be issued within a year of the entry into force of the Act, will be created in cooperation with scientists and scientists, on the basis of listening to the voices of experts, because it is one of those laws which will be effective only then and will then be complete. We also have some reservations, which were not resolved at the committee meeting, concerning, for example, the powers of hunters to eliminate alien species. Despite these reservations, we support the amendments tabled by the opposition, by the Civic Coalition Club. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Over $12,000. We have alien species in the Member States of the European Union. We know that at least 10 and 15% these species are species that contribute to environmental damage, but we must also say to ourselves that the introduction of alien species into the environment also brings losses, and this is a huge loss, often material. Of course, there are also alien species that are species that go beyond the environment, but they do not cause such damage. But they are, among others. plants were indicated here, we are talking about borschts, but there are also animals, there are also microorganisms. Historically, we know that such an invasive species has become, among others, an invasive species. A potato stone. So what economic significance can this kind of enticing in the environment be, we can give here a number of examples. However, this legal solution, which is presented by the government, at first reading was presented at the meeting of the environmental committee, is related to the implementation of European law into Polish law, because the regulation requires a certain legal framework, which we need to introduce in the Polish legal system, although the regulations apply explicitly. Furthermore, as the rapporteur mentioned, this also applies to certain provisions of the Genetically Modified Organisms Directive. Here, of course, we are dealing with a positive action that is linked to the European Biodiversity Strategy, which was adopted by the European Commission and refers to the time horizon by 2030. This strategy, of course, concerns various areas of our activity, including, for example, agricultural, forestry or other activities. I would like to point out that the law amends a number of other laws. Here we have the 12 laws mentioned, so this shows what the spectrum of this regulation is for different entities and institutions. It also imposes obligations on entrepreneurs, for e.g. entrepreneurs. The marketing of goods and materials may also be a source of entrapment of certain species which may be invasive, in Poland or in other Member States of the European Union, in particular those which are harmful or pests. We also have such examples in our practice and activity. Entrepreneurs are required to ensure that products and materials which are or will be marketed do not contain Union or national alien invasive species. However, as has already been mentioned, certain tasks have also been put before hunters under the Hunting Law, by which it is shown that they are responsible for the reduction in particular of animals and birds. The Act identifies entities which also impose obligations, i.e. numerous institutions, such as general and regional environmental management, national parks, voivodship environmental inspections, maritime offices, regional directorates of State Forests, but above all points to municipal and voivodship authorities. This makes this catalogue obliged to perform certain tasks - whether control or response to confirmed phenomena of invasive organisms - also linked to certain obligations. Where there is a state administration, I do not want to talk about it here, but where it concerns competences or obligations that we impose on local governments, it should be combined with compensation, even if they do not have extensive (Bingle) application. The project - I would like to end by stressing, your marshal - is quite well consulted, because these consultations have been conducted since 2019 with both the Joint Committee of Government and the Territorial Government and with numerous institutions. And here's a positive recommendation from him. We rarely have such a broad consultation here in the High House, which does not mean that all the elements related to this law have been included in it, because as you look at this long catalogue of comments, which has been submitted by the consulted parties, there is very much... You are very close to the end, sir. ...there seems to be legitimate comments that this law does not take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u208	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u209	Alien Species Act. Everyone, after reading the title, expects to settle the burning problem of Reptilian at last, but here we are unfortunately disappointed. Not a word about aliens. I don't have any objections. As for most of the provisions of this law, so I will not repeat the obvious things about which I think we all agree, but according to the proven legislative tactic known as the egg surprise we have in this bill also one stinking booze in free. It's about trying to push another point through the back door from the lobbyist's plan of various gangs of animal thieves called self-protectors of animals, that is, trying to reduce circus activity. I have already said here that to some extent I understand this dislike of our House for the circus. After all, no one likes competition, and like anyone who provides services of poor quality, our House would like to have a monopoly on circus activities, but in fact you are dancing here under the dictation of thieves, people who are already dealing with various dubious pretexts of such robberies in the majesty of laws aimed at free acquisition of animals from legitimate owners. I'll give you an example of a family from Sosnowiec, where one night some punk comes into his apartment with a donkey and takes everything that moves because she thinks they have too small an apartment for parrots and fishes. And then these people hang around the courts for years trying to get these animals back, but they don't even know where these animals are. Now we're taking the next step. From day to day, for no reason, we delegalize the possession by circuses of animals entered on some arbitrary and quite random list of dangerous species, and these circuses that these animals already have, we put on a short list, which in the near future will probably be creatively used to oppress these entities. The bill itself does not explain why this list is needed at all, so I dare say that it is simply not necessary. Its true purpose goes beyond the current regulation and prepares the ground for further hostile actions, such as hostile takeovers of different animal organisations. Firstly, the law goes beyond the purpose of submitting the implementation of EU law. The directive we are implementing does not contain such prohibitions. This is a typical PiS-type drop-in. Secondly, we allow the municipality to issue, from day to day, a ban on keeping wild animals in the circus. Just like that, just like that. Every day people with legal animals, people who invested money in their maintenance, upbringing, providing them with conditions that eventually They have also become attached to them, often with reciprocity, can be put in a position of theoretically no choice, without any compensation. The animal can, of course, be transported theoretically to another community, but if someone has built suitable rooms, runways and other devices for it, what is it to do with it? You want him to take it on his back and take it to the neighboring community? How is a citizen supposed to make any long-term investment in this country when every step of the way you send a citizen warning not to do it, because in the sick heads of politicians at any time there might be an idea to ban something that has been legal, or to add some rule that will make the whole investment meaningless? Third, why the hell are we even doing this? The explanatory memorandum states: Since the introduction of this derogation from the prohibition, some natural persons have established circus activities in order to circumvent the rules and have obtained appropriate authorisation from the district veterinarian, thereby opening their way to the legal holding and possession of dangerous species belonging to category I. So? And what's wrong with that? They've got permission, they've got a legal record. What's your problem with that? What's wrong? Nothing. It goes on to say: Some of these people use dangerous animals for educational or exposition activities. Oh, horror! So? I'm asking you again. We read further: How many such animals are involved in Poland? According to the explanatory memorandum, eight. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Release the elephant.]] Yeah, eight. Not 8,000, not 800, just eight. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Release the elephant.]] Yeah, that's right. What the hell's bothering you? The owner has an important interest in keeping the animal from eating it, and he doesn't need your concern for that. And isn't the horse dangerous, or is the bull dangerous, or isn't the dog dangerous, even though they're not on that list? What the hell is this? Laws should solve problems, not create them. There's no justification here. There's just lobbying bad people who want cheap or free to get other people's animals, and there's envy. Yes, of course, ordinary envy, because a normal person, as he sees a neighbor with a new car, is wondering what to do to buy a car like this, and a socialist, whether it's godless or pious, is figuring out how to get his neighbors to take the car. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's who you are, like a gardener's dog, he won't take it himself, and he won't give it to another. There are tragedies of many people following such regulations. I guess some people have heard, for example. About the history of Nubia, who still misses her owner in the Chorzów zoo. Thank you very much, sir. This is the story of heartless officials and stupid decisions. Laws in this version, with that smelly poop smeared between the pages of this bill, we can't support it. We are making amendments to remove these harmful rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u210	Thank you, sir. I'm opening a list of questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u211	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reporter or Minister, I ask you why it is not included in the Annex of the American mink. This is a highly invasive species. American minks, which run away mainly from fur farms, adapt perfectly in our environment and do gigantic damage. Although the inclusion of this species was recommended by scientists from the Polish Academy of Sciences, the American mink was not indicated in the annex. I mean, is she gonna be there? The second species, which is also not included in this list, is amur fish. Why didn't that fish get there? The next question concerns amendments to the Animal Protection Act contained in the article. 41. There it is allowed to kill an animal belonging to the IGO (The Bell), such an animal which, note: probably meets the criteria for recognition as IGO. I understand that an IGO animal can be eliminated, but what does that mean: probably meets the criteria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three specific questions. First question. How is the Regional Environmental Director to establish a list of non-commercial owners and how is he to inform them of the risks arising from the holding of animals belonging to invasive species, but so that it works in real terms, not so as to be a worthless announcement on the website, and will the additional resources be allocated to the DGOS for this purpose? Second question. The Act obliges municipalities to take action to reduce the problem of alien species, including to decapitate them from the environment. But how real is each of the nearly 2500 municipalities to do this and will they also be given additional resources for this purpose? After all, this is a commission, so it should be followed by means. Third question. What legal steps can the Ministry finally propose to prevent invasive animals from being mass-killed in connection with this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u214	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of uncontrolled spread of alien species has been noticed relatively recently, because in the second half of the 20th century, but it is undoubtedly extremely important, extremely important in nature conservation. Therefore, my question concerns a very important educational aspect. In recent times, I have met with a frequent, even such a piar-promotional, so-called. Oxygen trees, oxytree, which have many qualities. Unfortunately, it is also said that hybrid trees drain very deeply. Are there scientific information that, however, confirms certain risks? On the other hand, I'd like to ask you about local governments. This is very important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The destruction of the plant patch, which is undoubtedly not as spectacular as the shooting of the game, is very expensive. Is somebody going to finance local governments with this important task? If so, will the municipalities be informed and trained how to remove invasive species? Who will receive these species? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u216	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of invasive alien species continues to grow mainly due to trade, transport or tourism. Species in an environment close to home can survive and reproduce well or develop. These species have no natural enemies or barriers. By disrupting the flora, the ecosystem can become invasive in this way, can be a threat, can affect many areas, among others. for agriculture, forestry and fisheries. That is why I ask and ask for a written reply: What species in Poland are the most invasive? What areas does this apply to? How many fires do we have right now? What kind of communes? What are the annual costs of environmental damage? What are the costs of the damage incurred in removing these invasive species? What will the government do? What funding will be spent on training, separation or removal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] My questions also concern grants that will be granted for financial support to local governments, for municipalities that will fight invasive species. Will it be so traditional that the cost of fighting, the next costs will be passed on to local governments? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u218	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One of my previous speakers was talking about a pot of potatoes. As you know, older Members know, it was planted on us by the imperialists of the West. I'd like to talk about the plant that was given to us by the Eastern internationalists. Now, seriously: caucasian borsches, especially Sosnowski's borscht, are extremely invasive plants, additionally dangerous for people. In southern Poland they are very widespread, especially by the rivers. And I have a question for the Minister: Does the Ministry have information about the size of the areas that are occupied with these plants? Are there any estimates of the costs of decommissioning these plants? Will funds be provided in the budget for their decommissioning? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Alien species are species that have either been imported or dragged, i.e. accidentally imported, or species that have been produced, e.g. GMOs. Those species that were imported were imported for a purpose. There have been animal breeding or plant cultivation attempts. Some of them failed, some stayed in the environment. Plants that are cultivated, animals that are bred, farm animals are usually alien species, not necessarily invasive, but alien species. I would like to ask about species that are, as if on the border between cultivation and these invasive species, e.g. I'm doing acacia or that kind of thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about them? Because the only benefit is in the early years, e.g. for bees. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u222	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a very valuable initiative. It is good that the Ministry of Environment deals with invasive species because of the need to protect our native species. I would therefore like to ask the Ministry whether it will better protect our native species. A few months or a year ago, I filed 136 interpellations concerning each individual species that was endangered, threatened with extinction, critically endangered, almost extinct, native. And I got one collective answer, and apart from the fact that the ministry knows that these species are at risk, it didn't show much. I purposely submitted separate interpellations so that the Ministry would lean over each of these endangered (the Bell) in one way or another and deal with the problem. I have another question, but I don't know if I can get a second. But it's gonna have to be... I hope that this necessary and good law will not result in excessive action. For example, at one of the palaces in southern Poland, near Kielce, there is a herd of bison in Kurozęców, which were brought there by the owners of the palace several years ago as an attraction for children, people. They're in a closed meadow, and they don't really threaten to unite with our bison and produce... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The bison is also a crossword puzzle.]] Thank you very much. ...some strange offspring. And unfortunately, the owner is being harassed, and he's gonna have this herd knocked out. That's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u224	Thank you very much, Member. Please, last question, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if you ladies know that all species in Europe are invasive species. There's not a single native. There's nothing wrong with the fact that the American mink is denying Polish. If she's better, let her deny it. If you ladies had lived 100 million years ago, you would have defended the dinosaurs so that God's weapons wouldn't be extinct. Nature is variable, you have to remember that. Of course, there is a species that threatens us - the Western European flea that was once on the Elbe, now it comes to Oder and can deny us the Eastern European flea. I suggest you put her on the list, too. A law is also needed to defend the influenza virus that has been expelled by the COVID virus. It's worth defending this virus. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about alien species, the European Union will come up with a new idea - we will need to be protected from the invasion of Chinese, Indians, Hottentots, Pygmies and other alien species. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u226	That was the last question. The Secretary of State at the Climate Ministry of Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion, which shows that awareness of invasive alien species is growing, that we are aware of the dangers they pose, that we know that not only biodiversity is a matter that we should protect, but also that the IGO can affect food and human health. Hence, our actions, which we are taking, stem not only from the need to implement EU law in Poland, so as to avoid or close the infringement procedure, but above all from not leading to the development of these dangerous plants, animals or other organisms. Listening to this discussion, I wondered how to respond. I think I was inspired by Mr Korwin-Mikke to thank you for this little ridiculous tone, such a taunting one, but I think it is touching the heart of the problem at all, what we want to protect. On the one hand, we could say, okay, someone brought in some invasive alien species, he's fine here. Whoever brought him in got attached to him, let's leave him alone. On the other hand, I don't know, in national parks, there were reserves of plants that deny native nature. In fact, we can also recognize that it is the law of nature - let's leave it. Of course, here we should start a discussion where we want to protect processes regardless of the consequences, including negative ones, but where we want to protect biodiversity and then these actions and decisions are no longer that simple. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: So if the American mink enters, it will be more diverse.]] Consider e.g. raccoon raccoon, which is already a well-known species in Poland, which many people often treat a bit like a mascot that they grow at home. Unfortunately, they forget that this is still a wild animal, and the escape of a raccoon or its appearance in the environment is a danger to birds above all. It is an extremely clever animal that can survive in extremely difficult conditions, whether it is frost, whether it is winter or warm. He will climb trees and generally every species of bird is threatened by him. But besides attacking birds, attacking breeding, spreading rabies or parasites. It is worth pointing out that only pets imported to the Netherlands - these were Asian amphibians, very popular - led to the fact that together with them a fungus arrived, which led to a decrease in the population of salamander in the Netherlands by 96%. So you could actually say that he eliminated the native species. In the last 10 years, 20 million reptiles have been imported into the European Union. That's why we're spreading new parasites and new infectious diseases, so far absent from our territory. This in turn translates into the fact that plants, animals, and, as I said at the beginning, food, and often human health are at risk. I think that in this context we should talk about fighting IGO. It is worth pointing out that e.g. The claw frog, which is mainly used in research, is the host of the fungus, which caused the extinction of 200 species of amphibians. Not 200 pieces, but 200 species of amphibians. I think these are the things to remember when we're discussing. Today we think that something does not have great consequences, consequences, but on the basis of the experience of other countries, other countries, we can show that we can lead to a really powerful threat to the environment and then directly to man. During this discussion there were some questions, mainly about local governments. The draft law was twice the opinion of the Joint Committee on Government and Territorial Self-Government and actually the subject of funding aroused the greatest emotions. We agreed that today it is difficult to really predict to what extent the local government will take action, therefore these measures will be secured in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and in the voivodship funds - at the disposal of local governments for activities that they will carry out in the scope of this law. At the same time, I would like to point out that these are not new obligations that we impose on local governments, because they are already under the law on local government, because of the care for public security, and these activities also lead. It is also worth pointing out that local authorities are obliged to take widespread action towards the IGO, all the others are the competence of WDOŚ, State Forests, National Parks and Maritime Offices. Therefore, it is not as it has been tried here to suggest that, firstly, we have put something new on the local governments, secondly, we have not given funding for it, and thirdly, they are all about local governments. There's been a charge that since IGO's disclosure, we've had a year to take action. I would point out that it's not like you can wait a year, it's just that you take action within a year. This is conditioned, for example, by the season of vegetation. Not every plant in the winter can be noticed, and all the more effectively eliminated, so we define time as a year rather than a year from the time of receipt of the information. With regard to Mr Sosnier's allegation of the alleged smuggling of new categories of animals to which we wish to impose a muzzle, and that this should be a gateway to further action, I would say that this is not necessarily the case because the first category of these animals, particularly dangerous to human health and life, has been subject to a regulation in our country since 2011. However, this regulation points to a certain need for action. On the other hand, we know that there are many citizens in Poland who are unable to meet the conditions set out in this law and knowing that they will not be able to draw animals from this list, from the category of dangerous animals, assume and start running circuses - fictional circuses, pseudocyrks. Such a citizen calls it a circus, although he does not run a stricte circus activity, but officially has a circus and for this reason has access to those animals which are the most dangerous. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But what's wrong with that?]] And only from the point of view of safety of health and life, not only of this person - because we assume that this is not someone who lives in isolation, away from other people, but also lives among neighbours and other citizens - we want to close this gap that dishonest people today use. This does not mean, however, that those who already have animals will be obliged under these laws to kill them. It is also in the transitional provisions that absolutely no, we exclude this possibility. We are aware that this has already happened, even if under these leaky regulations. It's a matter of allowing the moment of natural death. The question about barszcze, including mostly Sosnowski's barszcz. In fact, I think this is the species that we have the most problems with every day when it comes to plants and fighting by local governments. The Directorate-General for Environment is carrying out a project which examines the various ways in which it can combat barracks. As a result, a methodology for combating, dealing with Caucasian borschts will be presented. Moreover, to a large extent, information about these activities is already being communicated to local governments. The question of potential IGO. Firstly, this is the implementation of the provisions resulting from Union law. These are emergency measures, which will in general be most likely to affect those countries that do not have their national lists. However, the potential IGO is not understood in such a way that if I see an animal and I don't know what this animal is, possibly an IGO, I will kill it. No, it's going to be a list of potential IGOs, which is a strict type, a species of organism that will be subject to regulations. So it's not what you're afraid of either. I also think it is worth pointing out that this law, together with the possibilities that I have already mentioned, creates asylum, which also gives powers, allows for the creation of places that we do not have today, so that many species of animals, many individuals, can be safely stored. Not all can stay in zoos or animal rehabilitation centers, and as far as IGO is concerned, they cannot stay in the environment and must be eliminated from it. In this respect, it seems that many of the problems we have faced not only as citizens but also as servants - whether it's customs or border service or regional environmental directors, national parks, State Forests - today we are ordering this law and responding to many of their problems, of course not all. Following this law, we will strive to create a central asylum in Poland, that is, a place where animals kept at the border, like Bengal tigers recently, so animals smuggled or detained at the border, in this case with Belarus... There was a problem with what to do with them. We would like to avoid such situations in the future. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Sell.]] Of course, tigers do not happen every day, but the problematic species with which customs officers are confronted every day are very much, and they always end up not knowing what to do with it. [[Someone would have it, and why would it bother you?]] Mr President, they have been detained at the border by Belarusian customs officers... [[Voice from the hall: And there are no tigers in Belarus.]] ...and they were not allowed from the territory of the European Union, therefore the last country that had these tigers on its territory was Poland and it was us who became the problem. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Then we will be richer by two tigers.]] Leaving it to the owner who didn't have any papers for it or the right conditions, because the tigers were riding on the trailer, they were in terrible shape... Besides, I don't know, I think at least one of them didn't make it... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: At best, they would die and the problem will be solved.]] It actually left us with responsibility. Neither the local government was able to react, nor the services had the right place, so I remember that at this point zoos were heavily involved. But not every time, we can count on random people or zoos who are created for different purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u228	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur still wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u229	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the votes that have been cast in the discussions, even for those voices that have tried to bring back the whole subject of our discussion ad absurd. Contrary to this, let us be clear, the problem of invasive plants, invasive alien and plant species, and animal species is a problem, we need to protect our biodiversity. I think it's an obvious issue that we don't need to prove. Let me remind you that the system for combating invasive alien species - although this concept was not, we are introducing it only by this law - has been in operation for years. I come from the southern areas of Małopolska, I have witnessed for at least 30 years attempts to combat this unfortunate borscht of the Caucasus, the Borscht of Sosnowski, which spreads through the source streams of Dunajec, which presents many dangers, many problems. I am convinced that the work that we are putting into the bill to carry out, to reform and to bring it into force will support these actions, efforts, creating a situation in a coherent, comprehensive, structured, well-thought-out way, with adequate financial support, to combat those species that pose a threat, in order to ensure the safety of all and plants and animals with regard to biodiversity. [[What about the orca?]] Of course, we will bend over all the amendments that have been tabled at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u230	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the International Poznań Fair (prints no. 1299 and 1308). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of the International Poznań Fair. This is print number 1299. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 22 June 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for First Reading. The idea of this resolution and the first text was presented by Bartłomiej Wróblewski, a Member from Poznań. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 23 June 2021, which ended in a very consistent adoption of the whole text by acclamation, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u232	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition... But, excuse me, the Member hasn't signed up, so... Please, Mr Wróblewski. [[On behalf of the club?]] But you're not registered at the office, I'm sorry. [[Oh, I'm so sorry.]] I'm glad I noticed you from behind the computer, because I wouldn't have noticed. We need to report to the secretariat, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u233	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour of presenting our position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This position coincides with my intentions, which I followed in preparing this resolution. We believe that it is important for the Sejm, apart from distinguishing, reminding, honoring the most important political events, to remember important social, cultural and sporting events. That was the intention of preparing this resolution. The rations behind the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the International Poznań Fair are expressed in the text of the resolution, which I will now read. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of 100. Anniversary of the International Poznań Fair. In 2021 the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań International Exhibition - the largest national exhibition centre, deserved for the promotion and development of trade in Poland and Europe. Industrial exhibitions organized in Poznań in the second half of the 19th and early of the 20th century became an inspiration for merchants and city authorities to establish a permanent trade fair institution. The idea of creating a Polish fair and exhibition event in Poznań was established in May 1917 at the Congress of the Association of Buyers' Associations. Ongoing World War I postponed these plans, but already in 1919, after Poland regained its independence, Poznań merchants and industrialists started preparing for the organization of the Polish exhibition event. It became the first Poznan Fair organized on 28 May - 5 June 1921. The event served to present the achievements of entrepreneurs and was an instrument for the integration of the whole country. The first director was Mieczysław Krósankiewicz. The idea of cyclical trade fair activity in Poznań, intended to show the possibilities of Polish industry, trade and agriculture, was developed in the 20th century. The next stages were the internationalization of the Fair in 1925, followed by the organisation of the Universal National Exhibition in 1929. Thanks to the 4.5 millionth audience from all over the world, it has contributed to the global promotion of the economic opportunities of reborn Poland, has spread the name: the Poznań International Fair around the world, and has also provided a modern, extensive exhibition infrastructure with Poznań Fair in the leading European organisers of such events. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After World War II, the Fair was reactivated, which for years of real socialism was the commercial window of Poland on the world, and their presence also affected the inhabitants of Poznań. They had a major impact on the outbreak of anti-communist protests called the Poznań Uprising in 1956 on 28 June 1956 and contributed to the dissemination of information about it beyond the borders of Poland. Currently, being part of the MTP Group, the Poznań International Fair is the largest organizer of trade fairs, conferences, cultural and sporting events in Central and Eastern Europe, which is visited every year by about one million visitors from all over the world. On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Poznań International Fair, the Polish Sejm expresses its appreciation for the institutions, its creators and generations of employees who have served well the economic development of Poland. The Law and Justice Club will support the draft resolution, which I also encourage the entire High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an extraordinary anniversary indeed. This time, as my previous speaker pointed out well at the meeting of the cultural committee, we worship a certain economic institution, not just famous figures or anniversaries of historical events. It is extremely important from this point of view that actually both Poznań fairs, first called the Poznań Fair, organizing the famous PeWuKa in 1929, are a kind of window to the world, but above all also a symbol of the resilience and reconstruction of the Polish economy. Interestingly, it was a window to the world in the interwar period, when he actually directed this fair, actually from the beginning, from the creation of the office of these fairs, actually the Poznań Fair, as it was called at that time, until 31 August 1939, Mieczysław Krósankiewicz, from my home town, from Wronek. In fact, also during the period of the People's Poland it was the International Poznań Fair that was such a window to the world for Poland closed on this side of the iron curtain. Interestingly, Cyril Rataiski spoke about this trade fair mission at the opening of PeWuKi in the presence of President Ignacy Mościcki, starting with the words: "Sursum corda! In spite of the doubting and distraught (...), the Universal Exhibition is to demonstrate the invaluable creative forces of the nation, its ability to make the greatest efforts, its organizational sense (...) and the fertility of an extraordinary spirit. These words, in which it is not by chance also referred to the strength of the spirit, and not only the strength of the economy and work, are in some sense such a historical record of the intentions of those who wanted to rebuild the Polish economy after the partitions, but also to rebuild the forces of the Polish people. From this point of view, looking at history, I am also extremely happy about it. It is worth mentioning in the century of the fair that thanks to the law which we adopted in 2014, allowing the transfer of shares in companies of the Treasury to local governments free of charge, in 2015 the Minister of Treasury of the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL signed an agreement that was just selling (Dawn) shares of the State Treasury and transferring them free of charge to the city of Poznań. Before the war the fair was owned by the city of Poznań and thanks to our efforts it was in 2015 that the fair returned to the city 100%. Today, just as it was years ago, as before the war, as in the times of the Polish People's Republic, fairs are an excellent showcase of our city, as well as a showcase of the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Of course, we will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Innovation, dynamism, energy, promotion of new, progressive and unconventional solutions are the values that led to the creation of fairs and which remain current 100 years later. Poznań fairs are such as people who create them, such as acquaintances and acquaintances: entrepreneurial, resourceful, economic, but above all engaged, friendly and open to other people and relationships between people. It is hard to imagine today, I cannot imagine my home town without fairs - places of the biggest fair events, conferences, concerts or sports events, this most recognizable brand of fairs in Poland. Over the years, the Poznań International Fair has been a window for all of us to the colorful world, not only for the acquaintances and acquaintances, but for the whole of Poland. Here for the first time in 1957. Poles had the opportunity to drink coca-cola, here in 1929 the first TV in Poland was shown. You could see a bikini or even a stone from the moon, and in 1956, thanks to foreign journalists participating in the fair, the world learned about the great strike of workers in Poznań and its bloody suppression by the authorities, known today as Poznań June, whose round, 65th anniversary will be celebrated in a few days - 28 June. From the beginning the Poznań fair was a place of market premieres, where valuable trade contacts were established, and the Polish economy was promoted. As a result, before World War II Poznań grew into the fourth largest trade fair in Europe. Today, the Poznań International Fair Group is the largest organizer of fairs in Poland and a non-apelative leader in this area in Central and Eastern Europe. Although the 100th anniversary of the Poznań Fair took place in the year of the biggest crisis of the trade fair industry, and in the year of the jubilee no trade fairs were organised yet, the new 100th anniversary of Poznań fairs and their employees are already entering other, stronger, with conviction and a plan for a successful future. This is another fair, because the fair is now not only about organizing the events I mentioned, but it has been developing other areas of activity that have grown from the organization of the fair for years, for example. outdoor advertising or gastronomy, which allowed to survive the pandemic crisis. Today it is difficult to imagine contemporary Poznan without fairs and fairs without Poznan. Few institutions have had such a great impact on the character and shape of my city, its inhabitants and residents. Today they form a lasting relationship for good and bad, a relationship that has been going on for 100 years. In the second 100 years of its activity, the International Fair of Poznań enters with constant energy and enthusiasm despite pandemics and related problems in the trade fair industry, because 100 years is just the beginning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Left Club supports this resolution and will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poznań is the cradle of Polish statehood. This is where the first real capital of Poland was located. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Always. We can discuss. Its name is mentioned in the Polish anthem. And in Poznań the first two rulers of Poland are buried: Mieszko I and Bolesław Chrobry. [[Game in the O.R.]] Maybe, maybe not, for me it is. Ladies and gentlemen! The Poznań International Fair is one of the oldest and largest exhibition events in Europe. It was first organised in 1921. It is difficult to imagine Poznan without fairs, and the fair without Poznan. For many years the Poznań International Fair has been a window to the world, especially the colorful, modern, invincible world of the West. It is in Poznań that top industry events take place, where news and premiere are shown. It is in MPT that business leaders meet to make key decisions about the future of their businesses. Here we have already mentioned what happened for the first time in Poznań, but it is also worth paying attention to the Universal National Exhibition, which was organized in 1929, popularly called the PWK, which was then under the patronage of President Ignacy Mościcki. Several days ago it was 100 years since the event was initiated. So it seems to me that today, first of all, we should pay tribute to all those who saw this goal at the time, did not withdraw and consistently implement it. We pay tribute to all of these today. At the same time, we wish all those who create the reality of today as well as the future of the fair. We wish them to continue to be the place where the Polish technological thought is present, where they can meet, exchange their experiences, so that fairs continue to develop, as in recent years, to glory, I would say, Poznań, but also our country. Happy birthday. Of course, our club will support this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First, I have to start by correcting it. All children in the fourth grade of primary school read in a history textbook that the first capital of Poland was my hometown - Gniezno. Mr President, I must respond. [[Applause]] Speaking of the project, the aim of which is to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Poznań Fair, I would like to say that of course Poland 2050 will support this resolution. The Poznań Fair is known throughout Europe, gathering... It has been going on for 100 years, you can say, economic, cultural, social and sometimes even politically. There were also politically important moments. But 100 years, this anniversary should be a moment where we lean not only over the institution itself, but also over the people who create it. And for people who create the Poznań Fair, this is an extremely difficult time today. There is no way to fail to notice that there has not been a significant market event in this place this year. On the other hand, when it comes to planning and planning this activity, the government has done its utmost to prevent fairs from functioning in this jubilee year. It is obvious that the mere loosening of the sharpenings at the beginning of June will not cause market events to come back to life immediately. Because preparing a calendar of events or restarting actual activities is a few months of preparation. Knowing that the epidemic was always a bit slow during the summer, it was possible to give the green light so that people focused around the fair, including the Poznań Fair, could prepare a calendar for the summer before, not announce in early June that the government suddenly loosens the sharpening. Not to mention the conditions, which is one person per 15 m. If we think that in a 150-metre-long room rented at the fair, we can accommodate 10 to 15 people depending on time and sharpening, then we know that it is a business in no way cost-effective and it will not encourage the organisation of events. So that so, the Poznań Fair was, are and - I hope so - will be an important place (The Bell), a card of the Greater Poland economy. But on the occasion of the 100th anniversary, it would be good to lean on how to ensure that a dry leg goes through the biggest crisis in its history, and allow people to make more money on this type of activity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u242	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If yes, please report to the secretariat. I'm closing the list. One question is raised by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project commemorating the 100th anniversary of the International Poznań Fair is above all a huge tribute not only to the institutions, but also to the people who created these fairs over the years, and bow to them. Today the fair is a permanent element of socio-economic life not only Poznań, Wielkopolska or Poland, but also in the wider sense of international life. It is the everyday functioning of the city and the whole region. And not only in this strict economic, economic, but also social, cultural, political sense. It is an institution that has been included in the landscape for years not only in economic terms, but also in the historical one, as was mentioned, in connection with the events of Poznań's June. I am convinced that before the fair only good moments that the pandemic will not disarm the actions that the fairs want to undertake. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am convinced that only good days and good years before the fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u244	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 45th anniversary of Radomski June 1976 (prints 1064 and 1333). I ask Mr Adamowicz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the celebration of the 45th anniversary of the Radom of June 1976, print No. 1064. Your Marshal sent this draft to the committee on 30 March. It was dealt with by the Commission on 23 June. The Radom June project prepared by Radomian Mr Konrad Frysztak was adopted during a substantive discussion involving representatives of both the ruling camp and the opposition. In particular, I stress, it was adopted in consensus. The vote wasn't necessary. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In our latest history we have many important events symbolized by the names of the months: March, 68, June, 56, July, 80, August, 80, October, 56 or finally December, 71 and December, 81. Undoubtedly, without protests of June 1976 in Radom, Ursus, Płock and in many other cities against the Polish People's Republic, there would be no August 80 or the rise of Solidarity. These events and repressions against their participants have become an impulse to set up a Committee for the Defence of Workers, followed by the Movement for the Defence of Human Rights and Citizens, which is important, the first openly active opposition organizations in the communist bloc. At this point, it must be remembered that both in this House, the Sejm and the Senate, there are people who, years ago, decided to help the oppressed and their families. And for that, they deserve their respect and appreciation. Yes, there is no doubt that Radom's June=76 was one of the milestones of the Polish road to freedom and independence. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering the project, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u246	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in the case of Radom June, those accidents which are referred to as a labour rebellion, and some even call them an uprising against communist power in Radom. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft resolution was tabled in the Seym by Mr Frysztak from the opposition. Thank you for this initiative. So far, in previous years, it was an initiative of our club, but you The Member beat us to it. We can say that in this competition we are actually pleased that we have the possibility of this kind of cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! Radom is a city with a judgment, as was said for communes, when Radom was deprived of central investment for many years, various kinds of institutions were taken away from him. Unfortunately, in the Third Republic, this bad trend continued. Jerzy Buzek, a party colleague of the applicant from the Civic Platform, eliminating Radom voivodeship, took from Radom various institutions and the situation got worse. For many years there have been no investments, but now there is a large central investment. Radom Airport is being built for nearly PLN 1 billion, which is to be called, bearing the name of the heroes of Radom June. We want to honor the memory of all those who, on June 25, 1976, went out into the streets in rebellion against communist power, setting fire to the voivodeship committee and throwing the portrait of Lenin out of the window, walking under the white and red flag for freedom for all of us, for which we are extremely grateful to them. I remember in 1976 I was a young man and I looked at Radom events with great hope - that it is a breeze of freedom, that there is a city in Poland where people voted for free, sovereign Poland, without communism, without submission to the Soviets, without this humiliating system, which then, imposed on Poland by force, ruled in our country. Today one can say that Radom should be happy with freedom, and I think he is happy, although I think that we still have many things to make amends for the inhabitants of Radom for the harm they have suffered in the Polish People's Republic. I would also like to say that the resolution lists other heroic cities that followed Radom at the same time (The Bell). Thanks to all those who helped the victims. This resolution, ladies and gentlemen, is very necessary, honors the heroes, reminds us of the wonderful deeds of the Radoms and the inhabitants of other cities. Law and Justice fully supports this resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u248	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Konrad Frysztak. You're welcome. [[The Civic Coalition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u249	The Civic Coalition. The Civic Coalition. What did I say? [[Voice from the room: Coalition Poland.]] Oh, my gosh, I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the applicants, I would like to stress - as a native radom, born in Radom, raised in the cult of heroes of the Radom of June, who in 1976 courageously went out to protest against the increases in food prices which the communist authorities at that time published just on 24 June, so today is the 45th anniversary of these shameful increases, and the day later, in the morning, the workers of the Radom factories went out to protest against these increases - that we could not forget the heroes of Radom June today. It is a pity that the Committee of Culture did not deal with this earlier, because today there was room for those heroes, people who are in the Association of June and could listen to our discussion and later vote today. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for this to be done, I would like to read the draft resolution, which was accepted by the committee: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 45th anniversary of Radom's June 1976. On June 25, 1976, a labor protest took place in Radom, Ursus and Płock, where thousands of people opposed the plans of the communist authorities to raise food prices and deteriorating living and working conditions. The protest has spread to many other cities. The most dramatic events occurred in Radom, where workers from dozens of factories, including others. from Metal Works, Radomskie Zakłady Przemysłowy Skórzanego 'Radoskini', as well as residents of the city gathered under the seat of the Provincial Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party and demanded the cancellation of increases in food prices. After a few hours, the workers' protest in Radom was brutally and bloody suppressed by MO and ZOMO units. Many participants in the strike were arrested and beaten. It was then that the Poles first heard about the so-called. health paths, i.e. troopers of officers who beat the prisoners between them. Many of the Radom workers paid for their arrest and two people died. In the following days, the participants of the June 1976 events were repressed by the communist authorities. There were prison sentences in court proceedings, and many workers lost their jobs. The punishing hand of the communist party deprived the'rebellioned' city of central investment, delaying its development for many years, and the inhabitants of Radom the authorities of the Polish People's Republic called 'warcholes', wanting to brand them in the eyes of the whole society. However, the protest has succeeded in bringing to an end the food price increases planned by the Central Committee of the PZPR. The events of June 1976 and subsequent repression (The Bell) against its participants have become an impulse to set up a Committee for the Defence of Workers and then the Human Rights and Citizens Movement - the first openly active opposition organizations in the communist bloc. Historians emphasize that without June 1976 there would be no August 1980 or the rise of 'Solidarity'. The events of June 1976 changed Radom permanently. The 'city with sentence', as after tragic events were called Radom, must have struggled with the persecutions of communist authorities for years. However, the Communists never managed to break the heroic spirit, courage, or pursuit of freedom of the people of Radom. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, bearing in mind the tragic events of June 1976, pays tribute to the heroic inhabitants of Radom, Ursus and Płock, and also expresses the highest respect for their courage and dedication. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland also expresses its respect and thanks to those who then decided to hurry with the help of the repressed and their families. Please, High Seym... Mr. President, you've exceeded a minute. Yeah, yeah. I ask the High Sejm to adopt this resolution and thank you for the substantive work in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. In the future, however, please stick to a certain time. You've been out of time for over a minute. I didn't mean to interrupt, but in the future, please follow. [[Thank you very much, Marshal, and I'm sorry.]] Mrs Paulina Matysiak, on behalf of the Left Club. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 45 years ago, workers protested in Radom, Ursus and Płock, where thousands of protesters opposed rising food prices and deteriorating living and working conditions. This anniversary is a good time to remind you of something many in this room would rather forget. Poland owes democracy to workers. The road to a fully independent state began with workers' strikes that went under the slogans of decent living and working conditions. Workers wanted social security, demanded decent wages, wanted to be treated decently at work, as people wanted to be hosts in their workplaces. In September 1976, a Committee for the Defence of Workers was established, which helped and supported the workers arrested, organized legal or material assistance for them and their families. From the beginning, the well-deserved activists of the Polish Socialist Party or the young left-wing opponents were involved, and these names are known to us: Louis Cohn, Antoni Pajdak, Jacek Kuroń, Jan Józef Lipski, but also the right-wing people Antoni Macierewicz or Piotr Naimski. Later, in 1977, the Human Rights and Citizens Movement was established. At this point it is worth asking whether free Poland paid its debt to workers of Radom and other cities. Unfortunately, the answer is negative, because it was the workers from the decommissioned plants who pushed the cost of the transformation. Shock therapy has deprived thousands of them of jobs, livelihoods, and basic economic security. Worse still, they have heard from all sides that they are guilty of their own difficult situation, because they are not resourceful enough, not entrepreneurial enough, not adapted to the new system. This took away not only their work but also their dignity and their hope. The neoliberal dogmas of the elite and the media have sacrificed those who owe freedom of speech and democracy. Let's remember what happened, but don't let it be an empty celebrity. Let us remember this debt and that free Poland is always a country that respects human work and human dignity. It's about time we started paying off that debt. Of course, the Left will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u252	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to mention names today, because I think it is necessary, and at the same time I will thank the applicant for the draft resolution, also thanking all the clubs that worked on its final form, for being able to adopt this project together. Ladies and gentlemen! Then in Radom two people died directly in clashes: Jan Łabęcki and Tadeusz Ząbecki. The third victim was Jan Brożyna, 27 years old then a young man. The victim was also Fr. Roman Kotlarz. 198 people were injured in the riots. The police and ZOMO detained 634 people, and 939 people were fired the next day. Twenty-five people were imprisoned as leaders of events, and eight of them were sentenced to 10 years. It is worth mentioning these people at this moment, on the occasion of this resolution, because they deserve great respect, ladies and gentlemen. They fought for free Poland. Therefore, on behalf of our club, I thank the applicant once again and thank you for remembering the Sejm of the Republic of Poland because it is a vatro to remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very good that we remember those events. It's very good that we remember the heroes of those days. The events that took place in June were the result of the pursuit of freedom, the pursuit of a democratic state. We can learn a few lessons from this for all of us, but it is a lesson of respect and humility to and to all those who had the courage and strength to fight for free, independent Poland. But also a warning not to divide people into better and worse kind. To remember that every man deserves respect and dignity. And the worst thing that power wants to do is take that respect and that dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u256	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: Wrong number. I didn't volunteer.]] That is Mr Konrad Frysztak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u257	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will address Mr Marek Suski. Mr President, please do not take advantage of the fact that only the Law and Justice have a monopoly on central investment in our city. When the Civic Platform was ruled in the country and the president was Andrzej Costowniak from Law and Justice, the decisions of the Polish government were also those investments in Radom. Data processing center... But, sir, we're talking about June, 76. Really, let's respect this holiday. ...the construction of the southern ring road and many, many other investments that were financed by central money. Mr President, let us respect the heroes. But I must refer to this, your marshal, as an applicant. But no, sir, to the point. You mustn't lie to that either. I was making sure that this resolution wasn't political, that it was an important resolution... Mr President, you are politicising her now. ...and it was politicized by Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u258	Weak, weak. You're welcome. It's just that it's really weak, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! It is an anniversary of great importance. Dramatic accidents, later punishing the city of Radom and the inhabitants, many years of repression, to this day people bear the consequences, for example. they did not acquire pension rights because for many years they were unemployed in the Polish People's Republic. [[It was changed by the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz.]] And you, sir, come up here with these texts. As for this southern ring road, you stopped this investment because you were building a road somewhere in Gdansk. It wasn't until we got back in power that we started this investment. No, sir, let's not go this way. At a time like this, it is unworthy to step on this ground, additionally lying, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u260	Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is already becoming unworthy. We have a beautiful resolution. It has been worked out beautifully, and the state is introducing brutal conflict and politics here. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u261	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! In connection with your appeals, I will reduce what I would like to say. I'll just remind you. We talked for a long time, over an hour, at the committee meeting and this conversation was really substantive, it was an exchange of historical, ideological views. We did it. Unfortunately, there are threads about current policy. I was gonna say something about the yard, but I'm not gonna talk. I respect your marshal's appeal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for listening to the appeal. This does not often happen in this House, the more I am grateful. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a governmental draft law on special arrangements for the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022 (prints No. 1278 and 1294). I kindly ask Mr Mark Merry to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022. The law that the government submits to the proceedings of the High House is a kind of special act modelled on an event similar to the 11th session of the World Urban Forum, which was COP24 in Katowice. This event also had a dedicated law, and here the government decided to submit to the High House such a specialty as this successful undertaking and a successful organisation. The aim of this law is above all to conduct, prepare and organise the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice. This forum, this event is organized for the eleventh time under the aegis of the United Nations. Probably the only event in the world that is so high in urban politics, how cities are going to grow around the world, what their urbanisation is going to look like, how they're going to develop, how they're going to make their families live better in them. And all this will be handled by the 11th meeting, the session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in June 2022. The Commission has examined the draft law in detail. During the work on the project, editorial amendments were made, which are reproduced in print no. 1294, i.e. in the report on this law after the committee meeting, after first reading. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt this law without any amendments as proposed and that the argument which could support this is that at the committee meeting it was adopted unanimously, all the votes were in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u264	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Merry will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me: this time, on behalf of the club, I have a great honour and pleasure - because it is my constituency and a city close to me: Katowice - to present to you the position of the club regarding the draft law on special solutions related to the organization of the 11th session of the World Municipal Forum in Katowice in 2022. Let me zoom in a little bit. The 11th session of the World Urban Forum will take place from 26 to 30 June 2022 in Katowice under the heading: We are changing cities for a better future. This will be the first edition of this event hosted by the country of Central and Eastern Europe. The World Urban Forum, which takes place every 2 years, is the flagship event of the UN agenda, the programme of united nations for human settlements and one of the most recognizable international meetings on the exchange of views and experiences on urban challenges. The Forum will help raise public awareness of the problems facing cities today. The World Urban Forum can not only publicise them, but also motivate decision-makers to take bold action to correct them. Main topics of the most important meetings during the forum, so-called. dialogues, among others. A fair and sustainable future for cities for all, a greener future for cities, urban mobility, innovation and technology, building resilience of cities, especially an important subject after a pandemic and in the context of climate change. The organization scale of the forum is comparable to COP24 in Katowice, which took place in 2018. In the case of this event a special law was passed, which significantly facilitated the organisation of COP24 in Poland. Similarly, in the case of the organisation of the World Urban Forum, the provisions currently in force are not sufficient to carry out and coordinate the tasks of the public administration and services associated with the organisation of such a large event as the Forum. The draft law sets out the tasks relating to a number of organisational aspects and the rules governing the implementation of these tasks by all actors involved in the preparation of the Forum. Among the most important are: the tasks of public administrations, including security and public order, the tasks of a team coordinating the organisation of the World Urban Forum, the principles of funding the organisation of the Forum. The Minister responsible for regional development will be responsible for a significant number of tasks related to the organisation of the Forum. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs will be responsible for ensuring and monitoring the activities of the services involved in the organisation of the Security and Public Order Forum in accordance with the proposed law. The Silesian Voivode will be responsible for preparing a comprehensive security plan during the event in Katowice and providing medical security for the forum. The organization of the forum will of course also involve the local government, the president of the city of Katowice. In order to finance the organisation of the event in Katowice, the funds of the state budget are intended primarily to be allocated, with the provisions proposed in the Act governing in detail what these funds may be spent on. The maximum expenditure limit from the State budget resulting from the Law will be 193 326 thousand. divided into 2 years, in 2021 - 68 420 thousand and in 2022 - 124 906 thousand. The financial resources will be used to cover, inter alia, the cost of renting the International Congress Centre and Sports and Sports Hall Spodek, the cost of the logistics operator, whose task will be to organize and operate the 11th session of the World Urban Forum together with accompanying events. The draft law excludes the application of the provisions of the Act of 11 September 2019 - Public Procurement Law, but only in relation to contracts whose value is lower than the Union thresholds within the meaning of that Law. Just a quick note. This point was the biggest discussion at the committee meeting, but those of you who know how such a party should be prepared, at what rate, as all this is happening, understand very well that the Public Procurement Law could paralyze the preparation within one year of this great undertaking, in which up to 25 thousand people can participate. people, representatives of countries around the world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Often the decisions that will be taken are very urgent to be implemented. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this law be adopted by the High Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u266	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Michał Krawczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the 11th session of the World Municipal Forum in Katowice in 2022. Let me remind you that the World Urban Forum is a UN-organised event every two years. It serves to create urban policies in the world. It is organized by the UN Urban Agenda for Urban Development and Urban Housing. I will also remind you that the values promoted by the UN in this area are a change of approach to the way cities and settlements are planned, poverty eradication, inequality reduction, sustainable, inclusive and sustainable economic development as well as gender equality and equality between women in order to make full use of their contribution to sustainable development. It's very good that this party next year in June will be held in Katowice. This is an event that the Polish government knows about. The fact that this event will take place in Katowice in 2022, the Polish government has known since 2019. Such information is contained in the justification for the bill. On the other hand, it was only 10 days ago that you submitted a draft bill in the Sejm, which we are dealing with today. There are solutions in this draft law that are dangerous - I will tell you about them in a moment - while you justify applying these solutions to the fact that only one year remains for the organization of the event. But the fact that this party will be in Katowice, you know, for two years. Such a dangerous solution is only from the law - Public procurement law orders up to 600 thousand. zł. You introduce in the Act very general provisions concerning requirements for contractors, which give the Contracting Authority great flexibility in the selection of the contractor. This may be with great harm for many companies who would like to work in the organization of the forum, and which will not have how and to whom to appeal against the decision of the organizer, because the law of public procurement in this respect will be excluded. The second issue that raises our doubts is the cost. The state budget will spend a huge amount of PLN 193 million on this event. As several Members have told me, this is half the annual budget of the cities they come from, so this is really huge money. On the other hand, it is not about the amount itself at this point, it is about the fact that we asked the committee at its meeting for detailed information on the budget. In the Act, and not in the explanatory memorandum, information on what are the components of this huge amount of PLN 193 million does not fall. In short, if you were to prepare this law earlier, and let me remind you that the knowledge that Katowice was chosen as the forum's place, you have been 2 years old, and the law was passed 10 days ago, you would not need to be on the pretext of haste and that the organisation of the event remained for a year, to exclude the laws - Public Procurement Law. You would probably also be able to prepare a detailed estimate that we have not seen. But you waited two years, and now we have a law on an undoubtedly important event that will take place next year in Katowice, which leaves a lot to be desired and, even worse, poses risks to the efficient organization of this event, which I have just mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Necessary will speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2022, the World Urban Forum under the UN agenda will be held in Katowice. That's very good news. This is fantastic news for Katowice, the region and Poland. The organisation of such a large international event of this nature is not only a prestige and a boost for the host city, but it is above all an excellent opportunity to learn and exchange experiences. The aim of the bill is to facilitate the organisation of the forum and solve many practical problems. I called the Katowice authorities to make sure how much this law is actually a facilitation for them, as far as it was consulted with them, and I received confirmation that so that they have been cooperating for a year in the development of these concrete solutions and that this law is supported. So we, too, as the Left, will, of course, support this law. We will only make one more amendment, which will be later. As I said, a great international event is an opportunity to learn and exchange experiences, which will be particularly important in the face of the huge challenges our cities will face in the near future. The most important ones will, of course, be linked to the climate crisis. The heat and floods of recent days show how urgent this problem is. It's a preview. the difficult future that's ahead of us. To deal with this, of course, we must stop with concrete, this terrible disease that has been going on in Polish cities for years, for the sake of all of us. Only returning to green in cities can protect us from these hellish heats and floods alternately. This is something that should seem obvious in 2021, but yet we hear time and again new news about the fantastic revitalizations made by pouring out hectolitres of concrete or paving huge areas of the city with Baum's cube. We must also ensure that we do not build wedges that aeration our cities, which will require for a change. to stand up to powerful developers, which has been difficult in Poland for years. The Left's position is obvious here. Our lives and health are more important than the greed and profit of developers. I have the impression that this is something that our self-governments, our politicians, will have the opportunity to hear from colleagues who are doing a little better with lobbying developers. I am very pleased that this forum will take place in Katowice, that it will take place in the Upper Silesian-Dutch metropolis, also because it is a region which, like no other or how few in the world is facing these huge challenges of moving away from the coal-based economy, with a departure from coal-based energy. Here, too, cities must play a key role, for example because huge areas inside the city that were used for mines or, more broadly, coal-based industries will now have to be used in another function for the benefit of local communities. Unfortunately, so far this is not happening and these plans are not being implemented. I hope that this forum will also be an opportunity to get some knowledge, support, and good practices in this respect. Cities that are good for life must have efficient urban communication. It's clear. The focus on individual car transport, especially in large metropolises, is traffic, air pollution, car accidents, and even with pedestrian mortality Poland still has a huge problem, pushing pedestrians out of public space. When it comes to poor public transport, unfortunately, the people of the Upper Silesian metropolis know it too well, as this poor public transport makes life difficult. Here, too, it would be nice if our self-governments picked up some good solutions on the forum. Another big topic, which is certainly a challenge for organizing urban life, is housing. Once again: Polish housing policy has been conducted for years under the dictation of developers and their profits. Instead of the constitutional principle of promoting citizens' housing needs, we have the principle of yielding to the greed of banks and developers. It doesn't have to be that way. Another hope associated with this forum is that our self-governments and politicians will talk to representatives of Vienna or Berlin, where thanks to the huge housing base and the strong regulation of apartments for rent are available to people with average wages, and a 30-metre-long studio in credit for 40 years is not the peak of dreams. There's a lot of challenges, an opportunity to learn from other people's knowledge as well. Finally, about this amendment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cities must also be an area of living democracy, exchange of ideas, discussions, meetings and protests. Therefore, we are anxious to accept this principle in order to ban spontaneous gatherings in time for the forum. We think this is a shortcut that shouldn't be. That's why we're gonna make an amendment to get that ban out of the bill. And this amendment, these two amendments I make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u270	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Nowogórska will speak on behalf of the Polish Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u271	Good morning, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the coalition club Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law on special arrangements related to the organization in the Republic of Poland of the 11th session of the World Municipal Forum in Katowice in 2022. This project is included in Seym Printing No 1278. High Izbo! One might wonder why another normative act in the legal order, but I take it, I understand that the law is needed to create the conditions that will enable the proper organisation of the session of the event and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the agreements concluded on the organisation of the global forum. As you know, the Polish Party adopted Resolution No 166/2018 of 6 November 2018 on the City of the candidate for the World Forum in 2022. The Council of Ministers decided to notify Katowice as host of the Forum under the United Nations Human Housing Programme. I understand that, given the size of this session, this event will involve many different commitments, but also difficulties, because in this session, as has been said here, there will be about 20,000. delegates. The appropriate conditions and facilities must be created, the logistics conditions in the conference centre in Katowice. Of course, the nature of this event is unique. I also understand that the rules that have been created so far are insufficient, so this clarification in this government law can actually facilitate the organisation of this event. However, I would very much ask that this law also include appropriate clarifications which will allow proper coordination of the state administration and all services that will supervise and conduct this event. This event is of great importance, as I said. A team was set up to oversee or coordinate, including ministries: home affairs, foreign affairs, regional development and representatives of all services that will also supervise security during and after the event. There will also be representatives of the local government. There will be marshals of Lesser Poland and Silesian Voivodeships, there will be Silesian Voivodeship, there will be a Lesser Poland Voivodeship, there will be president Katowice. I would like to suggest if you would consider this possibility to invite a representative of the city of Krakow to join this team due to the direct proximity of the Małopolska voivodship and the migrations that occur during such events. This could greatly facilitate the coordination of these activities. I also wanted to say that this is a huge event not only logistical but also financial, as my predecessors also said. The whole event will be financed in the amount of PLN 204 million. It is also a great responsibility in compliance with the law, including the Public Procurement Law, which is why we suggested at the committee meeting that we clarify the provisions contained in the article. 23, all the more so since the Act of 11 September 2019 - Public procurement law will be excluded under this Article if the value of the contract does not exceed the Union thresholds. I also wanted to say that all these regulations, if you do not want to include them in the law, can be included in some additional regulations that will clarify, for example. periods for the submission of tenders or for the lodging of appeals in this respect. This prestige is the strengthening and promotion of the region, as has also been said here, but also the strengthening of the event and hotel industries, which have suffered greatly as a result of the pandemic. I would also like to ask from this place that during these 5 days the organisation of this forum does not really make life difficult for residents and commuters. That is why proper coordination as well as supervision of transport will be essential. Of course, I also understand that you have the appropriate experience that you have gained from the organisation of the climate forum that was organized in Katowice. I'm sure you'll take advantage of that experience. Fingers crossed for organizing this event. My club will vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u272	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Confederate Group will be presented to the High House by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u273	When we started this COVID legislative fever last spring, I laughed at this speaker because our country was not prepared for any kind of unusual situation and is forced to write on the knee other specialities. I was wondering if, if there was a war, we were going to quickly pass a law on the supply of the front, revise the law on the occupation of a soldier, add missing approvals for tanks, etc. This is another time when this grotesque vision of the year before my eyes seems not only real, but even certain. This is because our country must adopt a special law for the organisation of only one event in one city. It's just drama. If a country needs a separate bill for a reunion of city councillors, it's a sick country. Mrs Nowogórska said in front of me that it is evident that there is a need for such laws, such regulations, to make this possible. If our country needs such regulations to organize a party, then they should have been passed for everyone. Why is it that one party can count on such commitment and support from the state, why others have to deal with themselves and not only no one helps them, but even have to overcome the various difficulties posed by this country, by its bureaucracy, by its officials, by all these stupid rules. And the other one bends to the sky and writes a bill under their dictation. The rules are to be the same for everyone. Why should anybody need an urban forum that's easier than, I don't know, a canary-breeding convention? So if we need such regulations, we need them for all of us. And if there are obstacles in this country that do not allow such an event to be organized, then they should be changed or changed a long time ago, but for everyone. No, it's not necessary for the inhabitants of Katowice, because there's probably gonna be voices like that here. As it happens, I'm from Katowice and I care about this forum, frankly. The average inhabitant of Katowice does not have any of this, but a problem with traffic jams and detours, because it is usually in such cases that the streets are closed for the honored guests, the catholics are expelled from the normally accessible parking spaces. For an ordinary citizen, it's just a nuisance. Yes, there is, of course, a crew that will stuff their pockets on it, but there's no reason for everyone to go into business for some of us to pump money from the average bread eater into the pockets of the President's various businessmen. Softening your eyes with arguments about promoting the city is annoying and messy. No one here knows where the previous city forums were held. Does anyone know? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Bravo. But I don't think anybody cares about that every day. In every city, something happens sometimes, and I've never heard of anyone going on vacation, wondering if they were thinking about where to move or where to invest money, looking for information about which city the last city forum, some climate congress, Tour de Pologne or which one of them was the European capital of culture took place. These are bogus arguments that are just a smokescreen for burning millions of dollars out of a taxpayer's pocket for events that only some people will earn. This is a typical transfer - from the poor to the rich. That's how I appeal to the integrity of the Left. Taking advantage of the fact that I still have some time left, I will refer to the banialuk which Mr Necessary spoke here and who expressed his traditional dislike for entrepreneurs for the Left and avenged that they were building these houses for profit. Mother of God, fortunately they are building for profit, because if they were building e.g. It would be a significant risk that they would build unnecessary buildings for the Ukrainian fantasy. Luckily, in the open market, profit serves to make companies build what others want. So you, avenge that construction entrepreneurs, known as developers in England, build buildings for profit, avenge those who simply want to buy them and who want to live there. You just don't want to let people live normally. And that's what your criticism comes down to. Thankfully, we have a profit and loss mechanism that informs entrepreneurs what is needed on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u274	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u275	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I even like to follow the Confederation - this order belongs to Poland 2050 - because these are usually humorous accents in matters, however quite specialized, such as. It's urban policy. And these are serious things. Why? Because exactly in 2050 70% The population of the whole world will reside in cities, that is, in large human clusters, which have their very specific needs, have their own characteristics and have a need for good law and in a sense to separate them as an entity. And in Poland, cities as an entity are still unnoticed, unseparated. Please note that we have a Ministry for Rural Development, in the Departments Act and in the Ministries we have regional development issues, and we do not have a Ministry of Cities. They say, okay, this is the local government. But no, it's not a local government, it's a completely different area. This is a completely different area, which in Poland, when it comes to cities, about their specific needs, because it is a multi-level interlock of issues, it is still not well taken care of even in the structure of public administration. Notice, of course, the ministries shift a little bit and change, the departments move from one to the other, but still urban matters, such as. Urban regeneration is somewhere between European funds, infrastructure, regional development and social issues. It is very rare that these areas... or at least very rarely come such enthusiasts to public administration, who somehow integrate it. Of course, there's no such look. I hope that the World Urban Forum will be a party after which something will be left in Poland. Poland 2050 will, of course, support this law, although we would prefer that there should not be such a loosening of the Public Procurement Law. On the other hand, the global forum is definitely needed in Poland. This is a big industry event, but the point is that after this forum we have some reflection, so that we can pay a little more attention to the issues of the cities. Why? Because it is because of the fact that urban problems are so divided between different ministries, resorts, fields, departments that there are very specific problems. For example, housing is a problem Somewhere on the border of construction, but also social policy. And these two cannons at all, I get the feeling, they don't see each other. Polish cities have so-called. age-old problems are precisely because urban policy is not treated as a whole. We should respond to these eternal problems by taking advantage of this great opportunity, which is the organisation of the World Urban Forum. These problems are e.g. reform of spatial planning, which I saw six noisy announcements, six views, and none of them worked out. Perhaps because there is a merry-go-round undersecretary of state, a merry-go-round minister, everyone is doing a new reform, but no one is bringing it to its end. This is why we have traffic jams, suburbanization, the pathodeveloper mentioned here, which is a set-off of uncharted urban deities and catastrophic, huge compensations resulting from local plans, to which local authorities are constantly exposed. There's really a lot of problems. The already mentioned concreteosis, the unsolved housing problem over the years, enclaves of poverty, which do not disappear from Polish cities despite our efforts, and inheritance of poverty. That's a lot of trouble. National urban policy tried to answer them. There was a very good document that the government adopted in 2015, but it came to an end in 2020 and there is actually no new document. I hope that the World Urban Forum will serve to renew this strategic document, which was a national urban policy. I also very much hope that there will be various communities of urbanists, sociologists, activists, local government officials, experts who will cooperate with each other. From here at the end of my speech, I warmly greet the participants of the 7th Congress of Urban Movements (The Bell), which will start tomorrow in Lublin. Poland 2050 will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u276	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I have a question about what happened for 2 years since May 2019, when you learned that the forum would take place in Katowice in 2022, until when you submitted the bill, it was 10 days ago. I would like to know what these two years of preparation for the forum looked like, because I do not believe that you have spent two years preparing a several-page bill. The second point is that I did not get an answer during the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. I would like to know what we will spend this 193 million PLN on from the state budget. Because for the organization of the forum, I know that, but you expect us to raise our hand behind this law on the organisation of a very important event, and we want to know in detail what the cost estimate looks like and what the 193 million will be spent on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm asking for more information than just for organization and promotion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u278	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The World Urban Forum is an extremely important event. More and more people live in cities. Research shows that in the next decade, the number of people who want to live in cities will increase by several percent. Of course, this is reality, but this reality is connected with its problems: economic, social, climate, transport, architecture, urbanisation. Therefore, such meetings are of course very beneficial, because there is no need to break open doors. We need to exchange views, we need to take advantage of the experiences of other cities, other countries. We live in a global world. Whether we want or not, this world is built and we must look at our country and also at our city as part of a global village. And that's good. The bad thing is that the state is giving the bill again (the bell) at the last minute. It's not just at this point, it's at every other moment. Therefore, please reply in writing, please give me an estimate of this event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u280	Thank you. I invite Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u281	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think I will not be isolated here in the claim that this forum is a very important event in our country and very well that it is taking place in Katowice. I won't agree with a Member of the Confederation who says it's unnecessary. Anyone who organized such a forum knows exactly what the benefits of such a event are for the local community. I can share my experience with you from the Economic Forum in Krynica. The inhabitants of Krynica and entrepreneurs are waiting for this type of event, because it gives the possibility of additional earnings, additional revenues. After the pandemic, when Polish tourism, the Polish economy was so damaged, the forum could become a huge opportunity for economic development. The Specs are extremely necessary, too. The person who organized these events knows very well what kind of law thicket should be moved to (the bell) organize this type of event. Thank you, Minister, for preparing this project. I'd like to ask you about the Małopolska thread. Although we discussed this at the committee meeting when discussing the project, I ask whether there are any events, events in the Małopolska Voivodeship within this forum.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing a draft law on special solutions related to organization in the Republic of Poland 11th session of the World Municipal Forum in Katowice in 2022. And of course, when it comes to the event itself, we are by all means so, it is a great distinction for Poland, for Katowice. However, questions arise as to why. Why, even though you have known for two years that Katowice will host this event, the bill was sent to Parliament 10 days ago? Why do you want to exclude the application of the Public Finance Act as regards tenders? This event has a budget of over PLN 200 million. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the annual budgets of four smaller municipalities. It is as if these four municipalities throughout the year did not have to apply laws and tender procedures in this amount of up to 600 thousand. zł. These are very serious questions, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that the tendering procedure makes things difficult, but that is why it was created to make public spending as transparent as possible. I would very much like to ask you to answer this question and to present a detailed (Bingle) costorise of this event. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u284	Thank you, sir. Another question, Mr Grzegorz Gaża, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Katowice is a city that was founded in the 16th century. In the beginning it was a city connected with crafts, later - first known, not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe, as a highly industrialized city. Now this town's changing. We have a Culture Zone, a centre where events are held that are clearly successful. The proof was COP24. This party has been a huge success. This success was comparable to COP15, which took place in Paris. This event is recorded by all the media around the world, and the money that goes into advertising far exceeds (the bell) the budget that we will spend. That's why I'm asking for such organizations to have more of these events.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u286	Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, self-government and self-government are areas that need to be developed and supported, and our self-governments and our self-governments have something to boast about. This forum will also be an opportunity to exchange insights, experiences, and to draw on the experience and solutions of other countries. Therefore, it would be difficult to assess the organisation of such an important event. I fully support the organisation of this important event, but the advantages from this cannot obscure us with financial issues, the need for transparency in terms of spending, with regard to the Law - Public Procurement Law and the whole financial area. Therefore, I would ask you to provide, in writing, information on the issues (the bell) and related expenditure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u288	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022 is of course a prestige, recognition for Katowice and Poland. On the other hand, I would like to know in which government desk the information from the United Nations, which granted Poland the organisation of this event, landed on 20 May 2019 and why, in a hurried manner today, only after 2 years, we are proceeding on the draft of this law. Here's another thing. The removal of the expenses of the organisers of this event from the Public Procurement Act must raise many questions and doubts. On the other hand, when our country comes out of the crisis after the COVID, spending any public funds must be correlated and clear. The spending of 200 million zlotys must be caused by the fact that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask that we have a schedule of expenses provided, because 200 million PLN is 12 gymnastics rooms for Polish villages and cities. Thank you, sir. These are measures that can be spent in a different way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u290	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, these funds give rise to some concern. On the other hand, I have a question about this amount of PLN 200 million. Is this, according to the Minister's assessment, an amount that will actually be enough to organize this big party? Secondly, will this amount be included in the budget plans, in the budget for 2021 or 2022? Another thing is the matter of the law itself. For example, in the article. 9 is the provision that the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. Regional development and the president of the city of Katowice will take information measures, carry out organisational and transport tasks. My question is this: Shouldn't the local government or the Silesian metropolis be included here as well? For example, when it comes to transport issues (the bell), they concern e.g. regional railways, which do not belong to the scope of operation of the local government of Katowice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u292	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Marek Merry, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe I'd ask a question, which is a little bit based on the comments, from the clubs' positions. It's as if the Minister has given more detail to the entire schedule of work, which... The point is, it's not like something's late, because it's still going on, and these arrangements are still happening, right from the moment of the confession. So if the Minister had presented this calendar, I'd appreciate it. And my second question is going a little bit towards the amendment that has been tabled. This case was brought up at a committee meeting. The point is that this law does not limit any officially declared conventions. She does not close the way to being able to gather and, I do not know, represent her position also on the days in which this event will take place. This is mainly about security issues. It is about these spontaneous meetings (the Bell), which will surely pose a threat later on in terms of maintaining, ensuring the safety of all those who come to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u294	Thank you very much, sir. The list of MEPs has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened since 2019, and why not just today? First of all, as we mentioned, we decided to prepare a speciality on the World Urban Forum after discussions with representatives of the city of Katowice, the Silesian Voivodeship, but also with regard to our experiences after COP24. And really looking at the schedule for the preparation of the specifics regarding COP24, I must say that we are a year earlier, so it is not 10 days before the start of the event, ladies and gentlemen. Why are you so late? First of all, because this year, first of all, we were at a time when we were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which delayed negotiations. It delayed negotiations with the UN delegation, with the Human Housing Agenda, when we had to negotiate international agreements for such a big event. These agreements were passed on to us by the United Nations only in the second half of 2020. The arrangements and discussions on this subject were ongoing, no one put them in their desks, but they were permanent. The Act was entered on the list of works as early as January 2021, so I find it difficult to agree with this statement that we are writing this document on our knees and throwing it at the last moment. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it is a document that is also agreed with the UN in order to meet the security conditions, the principles of the organisation of a forum where representatives of the highest levels will appear: from presidents to prime ministers to experts who will discuss in this forum. Where are we right now? We have agreed agreements between the Polish Government and the United Nations. We're gonna sign these contracts. We have started tendering procedures for the preparation of this forum. I will now refer to matters relating to tendering procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of the tasks that are carried out under the World Urban Forum will be carried out under the Public Procurement Law. The exemptions that have been indicated in the specification will actually concern social services, i.e. elements that are difficult to predict today. They will appear during the implementation, closer to the events that will need to be organised in a quick and precise manner. We cannot say that this is not verifiable, inaccurate and opaque, because they will, of course, also be controlled by the CBA. The organizer of proceedings, the contracting authority takes responsibility for the execution of the entire contract. The Act also introduces the control of the Central Anti-corruption Office of procurement related to WUF11, including those which are excluded from the application of the Law - Public Procurement Law. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we want low value orders to be implemented in an efficient, efficient manner, but also with the transparency that we are referring to in this law. As far as the issue of resources is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, 193 million are the appropriations that have been entered in the budget, some of which are in the special reserve. The Act shall also contain a provision relating to the correction mechanism and in accordance with that mechanism in case of exceeding or threatening to exceed the agreed expenditure limit for a given year, a mechanism will be put in place to reduce expenditure related to the organisation of the Forum. As we have mentioned, these are estimates, this is the estimated amount that has been generated based on the experience of the implementation of COP24, so it may turn out that this amount will be lower than it was assumed. In the case of a higher one, as I said, an adjustment mechanism will be put in place to reduce this expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not rule out that various events will take place in the Malopolska voivodship. Certainly issues related to accommodation, because the Śląskie voivodship will not be able to provide the accommodation base for all participants of this forum, so as in the case of COP, some people will also stay in the area of the Lesser Poland voivodship. We can invite a representative of the city of Krakow at any time, in accordance with Art. Paragraph 4 of the Act. 2 he can be invited as a member of the team, so if necessary, he will be invited. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Konfedera said that the people are dissatisfied with the organisation of such forums, but we know from the information we have received from the president of Katowice that the inhabitants do not question such events. On the contrary, they find in this benefits, mainly from meetings, but also those benefits that remain for local entrepreneurs, which allow tourists later to return to those places that are the organizers of the world's urban fora. What will be left of the World Urban Forum? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, there will be an action plan for cities, which is... I'm looking for Mrs... This action plan for cities is already being set up, is now at the stage of international consultations and will be an indication of the direction in which cities should develop, especially if they look precisely in the climate context, but also in the development and promotion of what can be done. He will also be developed within the framework of the World Urban Forum. The update of national urban policy is prepared by the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, which is responsible for this part of urban policy. So this update is being prepared. It will most likely be presented at the beginning of next year. Ladies and gentlemen! Because I have seven minutes, I'm going to go over the detailed cost information. PLN 193 million is from the state budget, PLN 11 million is the limit for own tasks that will be implemented by the president of the city of Katowice. Within this budget, the largest position is PLN 140 million, which is intended for renting space for the organisation of the forum, as well as hiring a logistics and organizational operator who will be responsible for preparing, arranging, adjusting the whole place where the event will take place. It is also about the design, construction and management of the exhibition area, as well as the IT and technical solutions used during the event, because we also do not exclude the formula of hybrid meetings that will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! Another larger amount relates to issues related to the employment of translators. We anticipate a total of 751 4-hour translation blocks. We must remember that these will be translations into six foreign languages, plus translations into sign languages, also into international languages. Thus, a significant amount in this budget relates precisely to translation issues, as well as to hotel reservation services for Forum participants. The value of the translation service was estimated at 3,400 thousand. zł. Reservation of hotels is 800,000. zł. The cost of promotional and media activities is estimated at PLN 17 million. In 2021 7 million PLN will be spent, in 2022 - 10 million PLN. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, these plans have been severely limited, which involved a pandemic situation, because the World Urban Forum was to be promoted during various international events, but because of pandemic issues we did not take the risk of participating in other international meetings because we might not recover funds. We have been involved and involved in a number of local promotional activities and initiatives that will be implemented. For actions of a programme nature, foreign delegations are allocated an amount of approx. Four hundred and twenty thousand. zł. This is primarily about expert support in the preparation of the Forum, as well as consulting activities in Poland and abroad. We cooperate on this issue with partners from the Visegrad Group, the European Commission, the European City Knowledge Network. These experts will participate and we will discuss with them, and we will ask them to consult on the agenda of the meeting. The next cost item concerns safety and medical protection. This is the amount of PLN 14 million. Security expenditure has been estimated by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. This includes the costs of the police, the State Fire Department, the State Security Service, the Border Guard, the Internal Security Agency, as well as the Central Anti-corruption Office, which will be borne in connection with the security of the event. Medical security measures are also foreseen. The cost of this, estimated by the Silesian Voivodeship, is less than PLN 1 million, or 915 thousand. zł. The budget of PLN 193 million also includes the cost of compulsory contributions to the United Nations Human Housing Programme. The total amount here amounts to PLN 32 million. The contribution is paid in instalments. So that's the cost included in this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! As I mentioned, these are estimates. It's not until we announce the proceedings... As I said, most of the proceedings, these large procedures are carried out on the basis of Public Procurement Law, so there should be no problem with these issues. It is worth mentioning here, ladies and gentlemen, the benefits that result... Mr Konfedera said that no one had heard of the World Urban Forum, asked why not make a similar law relating to the meeting of canary lovers. I don't know if there'll be $25,000 at a canary-loving meeting like this. people from all over the world to whom safety must be ensured above all. Security should also be provided in their spare time when there will be no meetings, forums, conversations. But most of all, it's about what's left here, which is the means that will leave the visitors to Katowice at that time. It is estimated, according to estimates prepared, that during the World Urban Forum, i.e. for about 5 days, visitors will leave here funds of $5.6 million. That's what they should leave behind. Of course, this is also about what will remain after the forum, i.e. all these experiences, the platform for the exchange of experience, which will be and can be used for all actions related to urban policy. Above all, however, ladies and gentlemen, which is important after the pandemic, entrepreneurs who have suffered the most - i.e. the gastronomic, hotel and tourist sectors - will also be able to regain some stability during the 5-day forum; it is about service, providing services to those who come to us. Thank you very much for the good words about the organization of the World Urban Forum. There's a lot of work ahead of us. Please accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Marek Merry, Mr Law and Justice, also asked for the floor. You're welcome. Although there was no question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u297	Dear Marshal! I would like to say a few brief sentences about the speeches made by the representatives of the clubs in particular. Thank you very much for most of the positive attitude and for the positive approach to this event. I believe that Katowice, the Śląskie voivodship, the Małopolskie voivodship even wants this event and that is not why the national stadium is being built, the International Congress Centre is being built, so that nothing will be organized later - so that there will be no traffic jams. After all, this would be a ridiculous approach to what we do in individual cities when it comes to promoting our cities and our country. The cities that organized such a summit are, above all, Barcelona, Naples, Kuala Lumpur, Rio de Janeiro. . These are the cities that have already hosted this summit, and I think that if Katowice is in such a league, there is nothing to be ashamed of. 193 million PLN - it would seem to be a lot. As a Member, when I was at the committee meeting, I thought so at the first moment. But when I split it into 25,000. People, for 5 days of the same reunion, plus minus all the preparation and closure of all this, it turned out to be a person of 7600 PLN. Whether this is much or little, you must answer yourselves. Someone who's been throwing these kind of parties and wants to take this seriously knows we don't want to embarrass ourselves. When it comes to our country, it's a window to the world, it's a commercial, it's not just for Katowice. Any city from Poland that arrives there can advertise its value and it will go into the world. So I'm rather treating this 193 million, this 7600 PLN per person who's coming here, rather as an investment than a budget cost. And for this investment, for being made within the budget, very cordially, as a Silesian and as a Member of Katowice, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Last sentence, chapter 4 of this bill. Contrary to appearances, there are quite strong restrictions and specific provisions regarding the distribution of this money - whether under the Public Procurement Act or outside the Act. There are quite a number of these restrictions, plus other laws, which will also guard the spending of these funds. I think it's just that, because of the excessive procedure, it's not going to happen that we're not going to be able to make it happen or we're not going to make it, because at the last moment, it's going to turn out that some cost that's going to be planned is not going to be realized. Let us also remember that this 193 million was defined as the top amount, so it is not an open directory. On my side, that's it. Thank you all very much once again. I hope that the bill will be passed quickly and quickly - as well as the ministry, and the local government, and the marshal, and the voivode - we will be able to lead to welcome visitors from all over the world in 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u298	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints no. 903 and 1215). I kindly ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft resolution of the Sejm on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, contained in the sejm print no. 903, was submitted by a group of members of the club Lewis. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee considered this project and carried out its first reading on 28 May 2021. The aim of the proposal, as justified by the applicants, is to restore the proper functioning of the Sejm committees by enabling the chairmen of the committee to convene meetings in accordance with the appropriate sanitary standards laid down by the order of the Marshal of the Sejm. During the presentation of the project, the applicants stressed that this change was to be an expression of a return to normality, because the Coronavirus epidemic was fortunately weakened. We hope that no one else will return except those waves that have already been. A little bit of time and circumstances have changed since then, because now, as we have all noticed, committees are called without this mode to which this change applies, without the use of electronic means of communication that allow for distance communication. Following the committee's first reading, the committee introduced a number of amendments to the original draft resolution, and in the committee's report we actually have three important entries. The first amendment concerns the proposal for paragraph 1. Article 2 198j received a new sound. It would now read: Meeting of the committee or subcommittee in the procedure referred to in paragraph. 1 - that mouth right there. I quote 1 - the chairman of the committee is convened. On the date and agenda of the meeting of the committee or subcommittee as referred to in paragraph. 1, the chairman of the committee shall notify the Marshal of the Sejm, who may not agree to the sitting. The wording of paragraph so far. Article 2 198j is the following: Meeting of the committee or subcommittee under the procedure referred to in paragraph. 1, convenes the Marshal of the Sejm after consulting the chairman of the committee. So this is a change from Marshal of the Sejm to chairman of the committee. And that mouth. 1 deals with these particular situations that we have been dealing with recently, but they may also be other situations, because they are: (a) the introduction of a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster or martial law, or (b) the state of epidemic within the meaning of the Act of 5 December 2008 on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, the meeting of a committee or subcommittee may be carried out using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. Under this procedure, if this change is accepted by the High Sejm, the chairman of the committee will convene meetings, and not, as now, the Marshal of the Sejm. Of course, if it is necessary for meetings to be convened using the possibility of distance communication. For now, all committee meetings are already held, as we know, under the so-called procedure. ordinary, that is, without the use of this way of communicating. The second change is to withdraw the mouth. Article 6 198j. This paragraph is currently read: Until the committee meeting as referred to in paragraph 1. Article 1 - just quoted - provisions of Article. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 shall not apply. Art. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are as follows: At the meeting of the committee, representatives of professional and social organisations and experts of the committee and other persons may attend at the invitation of the bureau of the committee or its chairman. If this paragraph is repealed, that is to say, the same Article. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 will be applied, this will mean that it will apply, and therefore it will be possible to invite the above-mentioned persons to committee meetings. The third amendment concerns transitional regulation, namely Article. 2: To the meetings of committees and subcommittees convened before the date of entry into force of this resolution, the existing provisions shall apply - if the meetings were ordered earlier than our resolution would have entered into force. Of course, the resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. It is a short proposal to amend the resolution, changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, important. Perhaps there will be a return of such situations that we will have to convene meetings with the possibility of using electronic means for distance communication, so it may be a future solution that will not be used, but, if necessary, it will be possible to reach for them. I would also like to say that the draft resolution was adopted unanimously by the committee, with 15 votes in favour, no one abstained from the committee, no one opposed it. It can therefore be said that the full committee requests these amendments to be adopted in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u300	Thank you kindly, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, print No 903, committee report - print No 1215. President Zieliński discussed the work in committee which in fact justify this change, and although the changes proposed as a result differ slightly from the original proposal of Members of the Left Club, they are still pursuing the objective they have requested, the project has therefore received the support of the committee in its entirety. These proposals did not put in place solutions related to order matters, which I would say were assigned to your marshal, but simply established during the debate, so to speak, legislatively, that so far the solutions contained in the article. 10 is sufficient to enable your marshal to implement or adopt such rules. On the other hand, if necessary, this provision may be used after the change and then your marshal will not have to convene committee meetings, they will be convened by the presidents and your marshal may, in justified cases, refuse to allow the committee meeting to take place. At the same time, Marshal, I would like to make one amendment on behalf of the club. This is an amendment related to this, here again legislatively it turned out that in the opinion of candidates for representatives of the Republic of Poland in countries other than countries of the European Union, the rules do not specify which of the committees is to evaluate these candidates. The European Union's Committee on Affairs has embassy positions related to the European Union, while all the other positions were generally carried out by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The amendment is half-task to make it part of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It is also a request that I say so, to proceed without referral to the committee, only to proceed with the third reading during the session of the Sejm. At the same time, I also inform you that the Law and Justice Club supports these changes and will vote for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to the High House Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For 6 years I have had a huge problem with translating voters, surroundings, ba, even family, what is happening in the Sejm and how we can work under such conditions. For six years I have been saying that we can work less and less under such conditions, that the Sejm is in chains, that the Sejm is surrounded by gates, that as necessary, the Sejm is surrounded by police units, that the button on your Marshal's desktop is mainly used to interrupt in half the votes of the opposition, that there is no debate that on very serious issues are, I do not know, Three, five-minute club appearances... [[They've always been like this.]] ...that it happens that the bill will come at night, and the next night is overruled, that all this is a denial of parliamentaryism and parliamentary democracy. That's what I've been talking about for six years. I am terrified to say that, of course, from the position of Members of the opposition, from such a position, we are treated here as salami: slice by slice, slice by slice. It happened that exceptions become a rule. It happened that some events, seemingly minor incidents became the norm. This regulation is like rubber, and sometimes it's like steel rings. It depends on the situation and who it is used for. Even in the last year, I think of such an outrageous thought that to all this pandemic was even a good solution for the rulers in many ways, because behind it there are a lot of things to hide. Indeed, during the pandemic we introduced new regulations concerning the work of the Sejm, partly understandable, because also sanitary security, and care for health and life, all this was well done. But also by the way, somehow there has been a little further insubordination of Members and the freedom of our mandate. This idea that committees and subcommittees call the Marshal of the Sejm, depriving the presidents of committee leaders, the presidents of these committees - it was precisely such that it was not known why, actually it is not known why. This has led to a halt to the work of the Sejm, the requests for committee meetings have been raised. We couldn't figure it out at all. Therefore, when the project of left club from print 903, we accepted it with a huge, so to speak, hope that it is indeed a restoration. The chairman of the committee... We're picking up these extraordinarily powers for the marshal. Only that I would like to say that, in the course of the committee's work, contrary to what both Mr President said here, this idea of the projectors has been distorted. Because, of course, he's calling the president's meetings, but he's informing the marshal, and he may not give his consent. Worse still, the victims of this record, which is currently in the report, will mainly be the meetings convened under Article. 152, i.e. those to whom Members of the opposition have the right. And we know there's an epidemic, he's still going on, and we can go back to this emergency situation in any situation. I am sorry to say that although (the bell) the behaviour of the representatives of the applicants at the committee meeting made us not protest, at the moment my club, the Civic Coalition, will have huge problems to accept this proposal from print no.1215 without reservation and with applause. This is still the maintenance of the almighty Marshal of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u304	Thank you, Member. That bad marshal extended your time by half a minute. The position of the Left Club will be presented to the High House by Mr Wiesław Szczepański.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In March Ub. r. The Sejm amended the Rules of Procedure while introducing provisions to be applied during the emergency period of the pandemic. These records limit the issue of convening meetings, inter alia. the committee. This is incomprehensible to me because, of course, at this moment, your marshal has become chairman of the 27th committee. Even on minor issues concerning the amendments tabled at second reading, you had to write to the marshals. That is why my club submitted in December a draft amendment to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, which appeared on the Parliament's pages on January 11th, restoring the records of normality. First of all, we wanted to amend the rules of procedure so that the chairman of the committee would convene committee meetings again, not your marshal. According to our regulations, it would be possible at the same time for the procedure set out in Article. 152 sign and submit applications electronically. As we know, today Members who were absent could sign the list and sign them in accordance with Article. 152 could have been added up. At the same time, we introduced in the Rules of Procedure the provision that your marshal should lay down the conditions under which committee meetings would take place. Of course, I thank the President very much for keeping the most important provision for us - as when we discussed the changes made at the committee meeting, a significant part of the provisions were removed - which states that the committee's meetings and subcommittees are being convened by the committee chairman. Of course, it has been added to this provision - and you have also requested - that your marshal may not agree. However, I follow it and go back to - so it's called - normal rules of procedure and to the content of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 4 Rules of Procedure, which are in force today, as we agreed earlier, which states that the date and agenda of the sitting of the committee may also be decided by the Marshal of the Sejm, who may not agree to the meeting of the committee. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: A paragraph. Two?]] So this is how it is written today. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] According to today's rules, if there was no pandemic situation, your marshal may not agree to a committee meeting. Therefore, the fundamental question arises. The record that is here is valid only during the pandemic period. If there is no pandemic, the article will apply. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Of course, we hope that your marshal will not take advantage of this provision and there will be no cases of non-calling committee meetings, because we know that there were cases during the pandemic period, as you said, in the article. 152. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has not received approval from the Commission on several occasions to convene a meeting. So we hope that today, when normalization takes place - thank you very much to the marshal, since, after talking to me, as you know, your Marshal sent a letter to all committees on 16 June and from now on, we are calling a committee meeting in a normal manner and not in a remote sitting - the regulations adopted will also not be used by you and there will be no situation of blocking committee meetings. My club realises that this is a half-way solution, because of course this record is, and therefore, your marshal may use his powers and refuse to agree to committee meetings, but we do not think that this will happen, and we will therefore vote in favour of this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u306	Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented to the High House by Mr Jan Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u307	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition has the honour to present our position on the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunities on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. High Seym! The subject of the regulation is a de facto attempt - it is necessary to emphasize the word: an attempt - to restore the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm before the pandemic period. It has to be considered that the situation has indeed been rather curious. As a result of the covidical changes in the regulations of the Marshals of the Sejm, it became the name, the boss or the chairman of the 27 parliamentary committees. This may have been advisable with a high incidence of infections, but we are aware that this could not last longer for organisational reasons or for autonomous reasons. According to the applicants, the design of the changes related to the previous state was submitted in January... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: January, just.]] ...but we're not considering it until the end of June. We are considering this attempt to amend the Rules of Procedure today, when committee meetings have been held for several days - and very well - convened at the invitation of the chairmen of these committees. This is an expected state, because this state, when we restrict in any way the administrative freedom of parliamentarians, Members, is not a manifestation of full democracy. Of course, I represent a club with a rational approach to life and a lot of trust. We are convinced that the full freedom for its chairman to convene committee meetings, as well as the large-scale committee structure, is the legal state that we should expect and should strive for. High Seym! The proposed changes do not meet the state I have just said, but they are heading in the desired direction, which is why I declare on behalf of my club that we will support the proposed amendments to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Every time something gets mixed up with the Sejm's rules, I wonder what else to make it easier. They'll make up MPs so they don't come to work. I remember discussing whether the Sejm was to be held remotely or live, and it was I who spoke out loud about how Members did not necessarily have to strive not to appear at meetings. With regard to the change that it is the chairman of the committee who should convene committees, it is quite obvious, technical and one that can, of course, be supported. On the other hand, the aim is to end up in a situation where committees can take place online, i.e. the pursuit of a state where we have been for the last year, a pathological state in which very often the committee meetings appear, for example. Three people out of 40. Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, I have to say that I definitely appreciate what we have now when we go back to seemingly normal. It's because we're still sitting in this room in masks and going into the speakerium, I also put on a mask so that there's no senseless, unnecessary discussion about whether this mask makes sense or not. On the other hand, I am pleased that Parliament is a parliament, that yesterday we met here in the number of almost 460 Members when we voted, even though it was after midnight because it was an obligation to come here. I am pleased that, at the meeting of the education committee in which I am, I finally saw the full room, not the three or five Members who came. I am able to understand that there are emergency situations that make it impossible for a Member personally to attend a meeting of the Sejm about or in a committee meeting. These exceptional situations we are able to calculate on the fingers of one hand. It was a special situation for me personally when I was lying in a hospital, suffering from COVID. I took part in an online meeting through a tablet. But just after I left the hospital, a week after I left the hospital, I had already attended a meeting of the Sejm, with these sharpenings that were. I sat there, in my chair, where I was assigned a seat, and I was also present whenever I could, at committee meetings. Ladies and gentlemen! I imagine that being in a hospital is a mitigating circumstance, just as being a Member abroad when he is on an international delegation when he represents the Polish Parliament. Then I am able to understand that such a Member may attend classes... Excuse me, teacher. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] He can attend a meeting of the Sejm or an online education committee, then I can understand it, but not when he's on vacation. Participation in any duties when it represents Parliament, not itself, because it was sent by some higher authority, I am able to understand. On the other hand, all the steps that we are going to see less Parliament, we are going to see less of each other, we are going to be able to figure out what to do so that we do not come here, are, in my opinion, negative steps, are wrong steps. They must be eliminated because we should always meet in this Chamber, we should do everything we can to make our duty as parliamentarians bigger. There's no reason, absolutely no reason to think you don't have to come to meetings because that's what they're for. The chairman of the committee is to manage the calendar well, so that we do not get into the situation that in the middle of the week we come here for 15 minutes, because sometimes there are meetings of the committee when we meet literally for 15 and 20 minutes. It is known that Warsaw will be easier for those 15 minutes than for someone from Green Mountain, Tarnow or Gdynia, so the chairman of the committee should be conscious about these matters. On the other hand, we should never attempt to state legally that the chairman of the committee can convene a committee whenever he wants, online, because this will ultimately lead to a situation where the committees will physically stop meeting. I wouldn't want us to ever let that happen. So that I have this appeal to the applicants and to the majority of Parliament who will support this project so that we take this House seriously. We haven't taken her seriously in the past year, pretending there are different reasons for that - ladies and gentlemen: pretending. We didn't do it for real reasons, we did it for the reasons we extorted each other. We have been here, and I wish you a 100 percent presence at Parliament's meetings and your committees. [[Same to you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u310	However, Commissioner, I must refer to this. Ladies and gentlemen, COVID is not only associated with the possibility of acute illness, but also with various complications after COVID. [[Of course.]] It so happens that in my competence is also to consider excuses from absence from meetings of the Sejm or committee, and every day I see how many parliamentarians are in the middle of a disease, is in rehabilitation, because they have had a hard time going through disease, to re-ops, e.g. Po-COVID. So please, sir, do not underestimate this illness and all the more so do not do it from the speaker, speaking to the Poles. [[Your marshal, your marshal...]] No, sir, you're done. No, I'm sorry. [[Applause]] [[What you've said is because I don't understand what I'm saying. Your marshal, I said the same thing as your marshal, I said the disease.]] Mr President, we have all heard. Not really. [[I was sick and I was in the hospital.]] Yes, but you're out of the hospital, and you're functioning normally. On the other hand, many parliamentarians, many Poles go through very hard COVID itself... [[You didn't understand what I said. I told you about the disease.]] All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting time: 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My question is addressed to the rapporteur of this project. Namely, we have now written that the meetings of both the subcommittee and the committees during the pandemic, the state of emergency, etc. convenes the chairman, but with the consent of the Marshal of the Sejm. Does the Marshal of the Sejm have to give his consent? And that's what we have in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The President shall inform the Marshal of the Sejm, who may not agree to the sitting of the committee, of the date and agenda of the meeting of the committee. In view of the above, is it only a simple transfer of this record, when committees operate under normal conditions, or is it some kind of extra provision which will cause (the bell) that the Marshal of the Sejm will be able to benefit from this veto connected with the convening of a meeting of a committee or subcommittee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u312	Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u313	This sad moment has come when I have to disagree with my club friend Arthur Dziambor. On the contrary, I would like to consider leaving sittings remote as optional permanently. I don't see any benefit from the fact that they're coming to all the meetings of people who aren't interested. We had that evidence yesterday, for example. at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, when Members who are simply not interested in the subject come and talk and are just really interfering with taking part in the meeting. I am always in plenary here, I am not getting away with it, but I do not see any benefit from the fact that, since we already have a system for this, we will permanently give up on it. Because situations are different - and health situations, and not only - and I think it is important to think very seriously about how these remote meetings should be taken into account permanently in our Rules of Procedure, not just because (the bell) disease has ended. And by the way, I'd like to point out that we're finally gonna... Thank you. ...they stopped fooling around with those masks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure really leads to a deeper reflection on the work of the Sejm. It seems that the chairman of the committee should simply be able to convene a committee meeting without blessing or acceptance of your marshal. And I wanted to ask you this: Is it true, if we adopt these rules, that the chairman can convene a committee meeting, even if there is opposition from the marshals? On the other hand, I would like to address your Vice-Marshal on this occasion and ask that we actually try to stabilise this work. We already have a schedule for the Sejm's meetings, and there is nothing to prevent us from having the same timetable for committee meetings. It is known that there are emergency situations when a committee meeting needs to be convened, but these are exceptional situations. I also call for us to consider whether this work of the Sejm, e.g. Yesterday from hours. 8.30 p.m., the first committee meeting and the meeting ending at 1:00 a.m.... After all, this is (the bell) a mode, your marshal, in which you absolutely cannot work. I ask you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. Question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How is the committee different from the subcommittee? Nothing, actually. Or maybe it's the subcommittee that's sometimes more important than the committee, because it raises more important issues. whether it raises the issues and problems of citizens that are extremely important to them so much. She's called to focus on a particular subject right now. But no, the committees are calling through... with the permission of your marshals, and the subcommittees haven't met in almost a year. The Sub-Committee on Persons with Disabilities gathered only once in March to elect a President, and has not met once since. It is simply committee and subcommittee meetings that continue to be convened by the chairman with the agreement of the Marshal of the Sejm. I have a question: Is it with the consent of the Marshal of the Sejm or with the consent of Mr Kaczyński? Maybe you're just letting things work out for you... Mrs... ...then you call a committee meeting, and those that are uncomfortable for you (the bell) just don't allow it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u318	Thank you very much, Member. I don't know why so many untruths appear on this platform, especially when it's normal... [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: That's the truth.]] ...the chairman of the committee may convene committee meetings. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: Then why aren't they calling?]] After all, you know very well that we already work on normal terms. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The committee rapporteur, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, will answer the questions asked by the Members. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The question was really one thing, but let me refer to other statements, because they introduced rather disturbing threads, not necessary anyway. The question was whether, in fact, a marshal... or the convening of a committee meeting, a subcommittee with the possibility of using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication will take place with the consent of the Marshal of the Sejm. Mr Tomaszewski asked this question - the wording is clear and it should not create such doubts, because it is this paragraph. 2, which we are giving a new shape to, says very clearly that the chairman of the committee convenes a meeting of committees and subcommittees, only informs the Marshal of the Sejm, who may not agree to the sitting, i.e. how the Marshal of the Sejm does not react, this meeting is held. It is not that for each meeting the Marshal of the Sejm must give his consent. The chairman of the committee shall act in accordance with this provision, which shall be his power. If, for some important reason, the Marshal of the Sejm thinks that the sitting should not be held, he will react, but I think it will be an emergency, if at all. So I wouldn't share that concern. We need to read the sound of what we're making in the change carefully. That's one thing. Secondly, I am very surprised by the speeches made by Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska and Mr Dziambor. Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska said that she is now wondering whether her club is going to support these changes, while at the committee meeting during the discussion and then during the vote, this support for the project was expressed by everyone. 15 votes, let me remind you, in the vote in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. Since then, which is from May 28, when the committee conducted its first reading, nothing has changed. What was expressed in print 1215 is the same as it was then. And today we have the same shape of the draft resolution of the Sejm. The political themes that you have taken are difficult to comment on, because it is well known that this is an attempt to use the situation to formulate some of your problems, completely unnecessary, because we are not talking about this, not about those things that you have called for. In fact, she called them to a large extent in an unreasonable way. If there are any proposals from the Civic Coalition Club, it is possible to submit a project, as did the Left, a draft of changes to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. He will be subject to a procedure which will bring one or other decisions depending on the content and quality of these proposals. But there is no such project. There was one, it's a draft by members of the left club, and today we're talking about it. Mr Dziambor, in turn, seemed to be talking about a time which, we hope, is behind us once and for all, as if there was no pandemic of Coronavirus. Mr President, please do not ignore this. We would all like to work normally, just as we have worked before the pandemic of Coronavirus, so to meet at Sejm meetings in committees. But there was a very dangerous epidemic, which covered not only Poland, but also a large part of the world, Europe, and we could not meet in 460 in this room, when, for example. was limited to five people for all others. How do you imagine that? Your marshal has rightly invoked these threats. Many of us, me, too, have gone through this disease, the coritos, and it wasn't known what it would end with. If we were dating, we would probably be contagious to one another, and yet these rigours were introduced to avoid the spread of the epidemic. So such wizarding, as we have just heard from Mr Dziambor today, is completely unnecessary, because it is disregarding the very serious threat of life and health. You can't really do that. It's not good, it's just not good. And there's no point in taking advantage of the situation when we're talking about changing the Sejm's rules, hoping that the situation is normalizing and that the epidemic isn't coming back, there won't be any more danger and there won't be any more waves. But there is no certainty, so we shape our regulations so that we are prepared for different circumstances. And that's how we understand this change as well. We want to get back to normal. We believe that this will be possible. But let's all do our jobs, and let's all do our jobs to make this normal. It's a lot of money from us, too. It is not that we can only look at other and objective phenomena. Something's up to us, too. So let's be responsible. And the solutions that are being proposed seem to me to be appropriate at this stage, which is why we all supported them in committee and I hope that they will support the entire Sejm. I would also like to refer to one question which Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska also unnecessarily raised. This concerns the convening of committee meetings under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Nothing changes here. Art. 198j paragraph. 3 regulates this matter and this change does not introduce anything new here. The Marshal of the Sejm is calling these meetings, and he will continue to do so. However, let us bear in mind that they could not not be convened because other provisions of the Rules of Procedure indicate the time limit for meetings to be convened at the request of a group of Members. So there's no reason to be alarmed. Thank you very much. I guess that's all I wanted to say because there were no more questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u320	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For one third of us, 142 Members and Members gathered in this Chamber, this is the first term of office of the Sejm. We have come to politics from different sides: some with long internships in party youth, others - like me - after years of social action or working in local governments. The Seym for many of us was a dream come true that we would be able to build a better Poland. Maybe it's idealistic, maybe we all understood it differently. But we all came here not to look beautiful in front of the cameras, but to work, which is the basis of public service. Our first Seym is a bitter lesson. From the beginning we have been taught in this Chamber that the discussion makes no sense, even if it is the most substantive. We have been taught that democracy is the violence of the majority against minorities, even if this minority makes quite sensible amendments. You have taught us, a new generation of parliamentarians, that what used to be the content of building a state - a fair debate - today is a waste of mutual accusations and sentiment. We have heard from our older colleagues that things used to be different. That you used to work in the Seym normally, in an atmosphere of respect, exchanging arguments. That such a place was the seat of the Seym committees, where meetings worked out the best form of law together. And then the pandemic came and the Sejm turned into a mute reel to grind more prints. The quality of these laws, or actually bags for ministerial sacks, will continue to scare the next generation for a long time. Their authors today are probably ashamed that they brought us to the night meetings of the plywood committee, in which they were placed side by side - certainly unsatisfied - changes in the obligation of seed training, mast-setting regulations and exemption from the obligation of public procurement of the Pilecki Institute. When our voters begged us for help, when they lost their jobs and their companies fell, you at committee meetings made amendments that would exempt them from the ban on the work of members of the pedophilia committee. When you look at the numbers of the Sejm Chronicles from that period, you can see empty seym halls and individual Members in masks. Meanwhile, their pages should be filled with pictures glued to the screens of my seymous colleagues, desperately waving a postcard with the inscription: Please speak! Naomi Klein noticed many years ago that natural disasters and crises are a great opportunity to deny us rights. A precise illustration of this argument was the changes introduced in the pandemic to the Sejm rules, which further strengthen the marshal's power, restricting the discussion, further reducing the freedom of the committee's presidents, taking away the possibility of introducing new points for their deliberations. Question: "What could have been put into the session of the Sejm committees if they were so screwed?" What were the rulers so afraid of in COVID? The proposed resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland is a step towards normality, because it reverses this adverse trend. Poland 2050, of course, supports even the smallest restoration of democratic principles in the work of the Sejm committees. The problem is that after the epidemic, we will have a lot of bad habits left in Parliament that will be harder to get rid of than by simply changing the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u322	In the discussion, a request was made to join the third reading of the project without referring it back to the committee after delivery of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges (Print No 1228). I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to state the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House on behalf of the Members of Parliament's applicants the draft amendment to the Act on local taxes and charges, contained in print No 1228. The essence of the amendment is to clarify the provisions contained in Article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (3) of the Law of 12 January 1991. The current wording is as follows: Buildings, constructions and land seized under real estate tax shall be exempt from the property tax in the area of public airport parts. The general and logical interpretation of this provision is that the airport is a building and is therefore subject to tax exemption. This is due to the definition of construction works under the Construction Law. The building is a building which is not a building or a small architecture, as well as a construction device related to a building which ensures that the building can be used in accordance with its intended purpose. It is worth adding that in accordance with Article. 2 (2) 6 of the Law of 3 July 2002 - Aviation law is an aviation part of an airport which is permanently intended for the take-off and landing of aircraft and the associated movement of aircraft, together with equipment for handling this traffic, to which access is controlled. However, for some time there have been other interpretations of the provisions contained in the article. Paragraph 7 1 point 3 of the Act on Local Taxation and Charges. They aim to recognise that only buildings and buildings and land occupied only for those buildings and buildings in the area of the airport's parts of public use are exempt from real estate tax. This would mean that the remaining land in the area of public airport parts would be subject to tax. The area of this land is significant, often exceeding 100 ha, and therefore the property tax could amount to several hundred thousand PLN, sometimes even more than 1 million PLN. That would be lethal, especially for aeroclubs. I think the High House does not need to be convinced of the importance of aeroclubs: training, sports, education. After all, many young people are drawn to aviation. They're going to aviation right now through aeroclubs. Aeroclubs is also an excellent promotion of Poland. Polish pilots won over 180 medals of the World and European Championships. Sebastian Coffee or Jerzy Makula These are names that are known throughout the sports world. One can only regret that they are often little or less known in Poland. This is a big difference compared to the period of the Second Republic, when the whole nation was fascinated by the successes of Pebble and Wigura, Bajan, Skarżyński. We still have much to do on this issue, but there is no doubt that this activity of aeroclubs is worth supporting, worth highlighting and extremely important for our country. However, it is possible for the aviation world to interpret the rules because of the provision in Article. Paragraph 7 Point 3 (1) is ambiguous. This is why we are proposing a new sound. This entry will be based on the project in this way: Land, buildings and buildings are exempt from real estate tax in the area of public airport parts. Such a provision is similar to the rules on railways, associations or museums and is in line with the intention of the legislator, who granted the facilitation of public airports as having communication functions for the whole of society. It would be highly inappropriate to tax airports while exempting land taken under public road lanes from real estate tax, as enshrined in Article. 2 (2) 3 point 4 of the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, or railway lines, which in turn is enshrined in Article. Paragraph 7 1 point 1 of that Act. The adoption of this amendment of the Act on local taxes and charges will benefit the development of aviation in Poland, will have positive social, economic and financial consequences and will contribute to strengthening the principle of legal certainty. Therefore, I ask the High House to adopt a draft law, which is included in print No 1228. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u324	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Tomasz Ławniczak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! June 25th this year has entered into the Sejm a draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges. The aim of the project is to clearly indicate that all land, buildings and buildings in the area of public service airports' parts are exempt from property tax, including those land which is not occupied by buildings and buildings located in that area. The draft law concerns the amendment of the article. Paragraph 7 1 point 3 of the Act of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges. Art. Paragraph 7 1 reads: Real estate tax is exempt, and here is point 3, buildings, buildings and land seized under them in the area of public airport parts. The wording of this provision so far is ambiguous and can be interpreted as meaning that only buildings and buildings and land occupied only for those buildings and buildings in the area of public airport parts are exempt from property tax. Therefore, it was not explicitly recorded whether or not the other land of the air part of the airport is subject to tax. This was interpreted differently by the municipalities, and the ambiguity of the situation resulted in the case-law of the administrative courts in this respect. The new provision states that, apart from buildings and buildings and the land they occupy, the property tax exemption would cover the remaining land in the area of parts of airports of public use which are not occupied by buildings and buildings located in that area. This is due to the ambiguity of the provision, since the mere fact that civil airports are entered in the register entitles this facility to be regarded as a building. It does not matter whether the land is built or not, because the whole area covered by the airport border is a building. The proposed law therefore aims to ensure that the provisions of the Act clearly and unambiguously state that all land and buildings and buildings in the area of parts of public service airports, including land which are not occupied by buildings and buildings located in that area, are exempt from property tax. Airport rules would therefore be similar to, for example, airport rules. provisions relating to the railways. According to the draft article. 2 The Act proposes that the provisions of this project enter into force on 1 July 2021. I will simply say that the subject matter of the project is not covered by European Union law and its provisions do not require additional implementing acts. Ladies and gentlemen! I would add that there was a contradiction in the provisions between, on the one hand, the Act on local taxes and charges and, on the other hand, the Act on Construction Law. Different definitions in vocabulary as much as in the other act caused all this confusion. This issue needs to be settled. This is merely a clarification, as Dolata's colleague formulated, for the sake of legal clarity. Thank you. Of course, the Law and Justice Club will support the solution proposed by the applicants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u326	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Civic Coalition will be presented to Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present its position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on local taxes and charges, print No 1228. The Parliamentary bill concerns the extension of the scope of the tax exemption on the property of parts of airports of public use. The current wording of the article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (3) of the Local Tax and Tax Act indicates that buildings and buildings are exempt from real estate tax and land occupied only by buildings and buildings in the area of public airport parts. This means that other land located in the area of air parts which are not occupied by buildings and buildings in the area is taxed. In this case, the Supreme Administrative Court, by decision of 27 September 2019, clearly identified the scope of the exemptions in this area and pointed out that no exemptions were available when there was no infrastructure at the airports. This is therefore not a clarification of the rules as indicated by the applicant in the explanatory memorandum, but a revision of the rules. The proposed amendment means that the exemption from property tax would be subject to any land, buildings and buildings in the area of public airport parts, including land which is not occupied by buildings and buildings located in that area. I would like to stress that this change does not exclude from tax exemptions buildings in which commercial activities are carried out in any way unrelated to aviation activities. It's worth thinking about, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law will have financial implications for the budgets of local government units. Unfortunately, despite the obligation, applicants did not present the effects of the proposed amendment. I want to warn you that we're not against aeroclubs, just to be clear, because it's not just about aeroclubs. The applicant's explanatory memorandum refers, for example, to exemptions in Article. Paragraph 7 1 point 1 of the Act on local taxes and charges concerning land, buildings and buildings forming part of the railway infrastructure, regardless of the purpose for which they are used. In my opinion, that's not a good argument. This revision of the rules on rail taxation, introduced in 2016, created a tax gap with huge implications for local budgets. There are numerous examples that railway areas are used for highly commercial purposes, in no way related to railway infrastructure, e.g. trade, mines, parking lots, etc., and are exempt entirely from paying property tax. All registration parcels shall be exempt from tax, regardless of the extent to which they are occupied under rail infrastructure. In extreme cases there is even a situation that is less than 1% the area is occupied under railway infrastructure, the remaining 99% under commercial activity and the whole is exempt from real estate tax. The losses for local governments are estimated at several hundred million zlotys per year. In order to clarify the rules on airport property tax, which we do not oppose, it would be necessary to clarify the rules on railway sites in order to eliminate the current tax gap. The relevant draft Senate law on this matter has been in the Sejm since last year and is awaiting consideration. In further work on this project, we will present proposals for amendments to clarify the rules on real estate tax for both airports and railway areas. I am convinced that this proposal will be accepted by the High House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u328	Thank you, Member. The position of the Left Club will be presented by Mr Tomasz Trela. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, listening to the applicant's argument, I am a little bit in the head because the honourable Member has not said anything about the possible consequences. You were talking about possible horrendously high taxes that aeroclubs are supposed to bring to local governments, and you didn't tell me how this bill would affect local government budgets. I have doubts as to whether the sums of these taxes will actually be horrendous and how this provision will actually be interpreted. Since you have been polite to rely on the interpretation of this provision by the courts, the first thing that comes to mind is how many such interpretations were and what extent these interpretations were detrimental to the potential real estate tax payer. If this provision is to order and be uniform, it would be worthwhile to show how much less property tax will affect local government budgets, the more that we are talking mainly about large local governments, because it is mainly in these local authorities that airports are. That's the first question. Maybe we should take this speech a little bit as a question, because the parliamentary club of the Left only after having got the answer, probably some today, and some later, in the course of work in the committee responsible, will make a decision. We are in favour of a system approach, so that there is no doubt about the interpretation of an individual judgment, but we would like to make a decision which would be a comprehensive solution and not a problem. This thing I've said will have a fundamental impact on our decision. I tried to illustrate so quickly on the scale of the property tax on the airport in Łódź, in this additional part. That's the sum of 300,000. zł. So I'm asking you what kind of money we're really talking about. The drainage of local budgets is carried out by you every year, there are more and more tasks in the local government, and money is getting less and less, which is best seen after educational subsidies. So, when we prepare new regulations, we should also be honest with those to whom tax money is being paid. I ask you kindly to answer these questions. Let us consider that this is a preliminary declaration of willingness to cooperate on this project, but additional explanations are needed, additional information, because I have the impression that the project would be far more valuable, not including anything to applicants, if it had been prepared by the appropriate resort, which has detailed data. I feel like it's thrown on a fish so that parliamentarians can sign something. I appreciate that, but there's not enough information at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u330	Thank you, sir. The position of the Coalition Poland club will be presented by Mr Stefan Krajewski. Come on in. Madam, I can hear you on the phone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u331	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, print No 1228. This project, which concerns local governments, was not consulted at all with local authorities. This is emphasized by the Polish Districts Association, the Association of Rural Cities of the Republic of Poland or the Association of Polish Cities. Turns out you talked to aeroclubs, but you don't talk to those affected by the changes. The Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Local Taxation and Charges provides for changes to the rules governing the use of real estate tax exemptions. The Polish Districts Association points out that this change will have a negative impact on the budgets of the municipalities. As pointed out by the association, the solution proposed by the designers will result in all land located in the area of public airport parts benefiting from a real estate tax exemption. Today, however, both in case law and in doctrine, there seems to be no doubt that only land located in the area of parts of airports of public use is covered by the exemption. Therefore, this exemption cannot be used for the land which is located in the area of parts of airports of public use but on which no buildings and structures have been located, as provided for by the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 27 September 2019. The tax rules on land, buildings and buildings at airports, municipal finances, will change. As noted by the Polish Districts Association, after the entry into force of the provision, not only will the exemption not depend on whether the entire area will be in public use in terms of actual operation and universal availability, but also on the land covered by the exemptions will in fact depend on the decision of the President of the Civil Aviation Authority, whose competence it is to approve the boundaries of the air part of the airport. It is also important that the explanatory memorandum does not estimate the financial implications for local government units. In the assessment of the Polish County Association, the justification in this respect is illegible and does not meet the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. In a similar tone, the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland stated that the opinion of the Parliament's draft law on amending the law on local taxes and charges, this time relating to aviation infrastructure, is another adverse change in the area of local government finances. It should be pointed out with all determination that this is another planned exemption, which does not provide for compensatory mechanisms. The proposed amendment is not based on editorial conditions or interpretation doubts. This will have a direct negative impact on the budgets of the municipalities. It should be added that any tax exemption is an exception to the principle of universal property taxation. The solutions proposed by the designers will result in land located in the area of public airport parts benefiting from real estate tax exemptions. Such practices will significantly reduce the revenues to the budgets of municipalities. The result of this law will be that tens of hectares of unauthorized real estate will be exempt from real estate tax. The Polish Towns Association also writes about the fact that it is another reduction of the budget, and gives examples. The municipality of Ożarowice, where Katowice-Pyrzowice Airport is located in part, claims that as a result of the new regulations, the municipality which it manages will lose about PLN 6 million a year. Grzegorz Czapla stresses that airport tax revenues are an important part of the municipal budget, and in a municipality without great tourist advantages it will be difficult to replace them. Similar concerns are expressed by the local authorities of Szczytno - airport Olsztyn-Mazury and Świdnik - airport Lublin. I also spoke to the authorities of Szczytno Municipality today. That's $750,000. the influence in the municipality, which does not have much of these influences. If you want to make such exemptions, it must be compensation from the state budget often paid to poor local governments, because you take everything away from them, any influence they may have (the bell), explaining that it is the need for an aeroclub. If there are no such changes proposed, we will not support... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u332	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir, time is up. We're over an hour behind schedule. Mr Artur Dziambor, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u333	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the 2002 Act: the aviation part of the airport is an area permanently intended for the take-off and landing of aircraft and the associated movement of aircraft, together with equipment for handling that traffic to which access is controlled. It's an internal operating part of the airport. The airport of public use in turn is: an airport open to all aircraft within the time limits and hours fixed by the airport manager and made public. In 2012, there were very positive changes and new categories of public use airports were introduced, i.e. an aerodrome of public use with limited certification and an aerodrome of public use not subject to certification. The procedure for setting up landing sites has also been liberalised. What did this lead to? This led, ladies and gentlemen, to the creation of nine public service airports with limited certification. These are: Radom-Sadków, Kaniów, Mielec, Białystok, Popobednik, Pleasant, Rudniki, Bednary and Kąkolewo. We also have an additional 25 non-certified public service airports. These are: Jelenia Góra, Rybnik, Inowroclaw, Leszno, Włocławek, Radom, Olsztyn, Bielsko-Biała, Katowice-Muchowiec, Płock, Lublin-Radawiec, Grudziądz, Piotrków Trybunalski, Nowy Sącz, Żar near Żywiec, Poznań-Kobylnica, Lubin, Ostrów Wielkopolski, Słupsk, Stalowa Wola, Zamość, Kielce, Szczecin-Dąbie, Gliwice and Toruń. Nearly 400 new landing sites have also been created. And now that after 2012 these changes have taken place, you can see development, you can see new opportunities, actually it is that those who may have a grudge against the lack of profits from it are self-government. And so now: the law that is proposed actually eliminates the contradictions in the law between the Law - Aviation Law and the Law on local taxes and charges, so that this is a good change. The differences in treatment of different public transport systems, aviation versus road transport, rail transport, as Mr Dolata mentioned, are also eliminated. Preventing the liquidation of 34 local public-use airports that were created after 2012, which themselves are living without public aid, and this is very important, especially for me as a free marketman who claims that such facilities can be maintained alone. They maintain themselves without public aid, but they cannot withstand the enormous tax burden that some self-government officials, of course, sharpen their teeth to. Conflict in law is used by some local authorities as a method of eliminating local public use airports and taking over them as a large and attractive area for other non-aircraft investments. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a bill going in the right direction. The Confederation will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u334	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Please state your position on behalf of the wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u335	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the draft law amending the law on local taxes and charges, included in print No 1228. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law concerns an amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (3) of the Act of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges. The nature of the proposed amendment is to propose and introduce into the legal order a new provision concerning the exemption from property tax of parts of airports which are parts of airports of public use. In the current wording, the applicants claim that it is interpreted differently and assessed differently and that this impreciseness should therefore be specified. As part of this definition, they propose extending the exemption in question to the land listed in the proposed provision in a direct and enumerative manner. Of course, this change, this amendment - I say, of course, because the applicants are a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - they have not been consulted with local governments, and that is very bad, because these regulations directly concern the income of local governments, and those who benefit from these revenues are not some indeterminate local authorities, but residents of the localities where such airports are located. The main question arises: Shouldn't the inhabitants of these towns also benefit from the fact that such infrastructure is located in their localities and, as part of the property tax, receive some part of the municipality's budget which could be used for investments, even in the vicinity of such airports, which would naturally also support the development of such airports? Opinions and positions of local communities have been directed at our hands. Thus, for example, the Polish Districts Association in its position announces that the solution proposed by the projectors will result in all land located in the area of the parts of the airports of public use being exempt from property tax, and today, both in case law and in doctrine, there seems to be no doubt that the exemption is only covered by land located in the area of the parts of the airports of public use which have been occupied on their buildings and buildings, in other words, land located under buildings and buildings located in that area. We read further: It is impossible to assume that the amendment is intended to preserve the original intention of the legislator, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum. We have also received the opinion of the Association of Rural Communities of the Republic of Poland and in this opinion we read: We are still struggling with the consequences of the exemption from property tax referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act on local taxes and charges, in the section on exemption from the tax on land on which the railway infrastructure is located. This shows that this problem does not only concern airports, but it generally concerns infrastructure. Someone has also mentioned that even parcels that have 2 m of railway infrastructure in the form of a track are entirely exempt from this tax. This is clearly detrimental to local authorities and harmful to the inhabitants of these towns where this infrastructure is located. Today, this project is going a bit in this direction to make such a statutory wider exemption than what is in today's project, which, as I mentioned, also raises local government unions. We therefore very negatively assess the situation in which municipalities, residents are deprived of income, while the government does not compensate for these lost income in any way. So... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. ... I propose that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: German.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the financial implications of this regulation. We need to know these consequences, because the explanatory statement is very enigmatic on this subject, which misleads Members and makes it difficult for us to further analyse this project. It is not true that aeroclubs have problems with functioning, because according to what I checked before the analysis of this project, local governments are basically very strong for aeroclubs. This concerns other activities, commercial activities, other airports. We simply need reliable knowledge, and please provide us with such knowledge. before further analysis of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u338	Thank you, Member. I see there's been a change of name. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Now Mrs Małgorzata German.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Exemption from charges and taxes of local air carriers. I wanted to know if there were companies operating in this area. Will these companies have less costs due to their exemption, commercial bravery companies? The activity at the airport is primarily carried out by aeroclubs. Airports are places where aeroclubs operate, such as air sports, acrobatics, modeling, paratrooping, paragliding, gliding, ballooning. Will the airclubs be guaranteed certain things in the bill? The development of air sport is very important. At this point I would also like to point out that the Łódź airport did not receive any State aid as a result of the closure of the airport in the spring lockdown. As part of the Government Local Investment Fund in the second tranche... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. ... So we applied for 431 million, and we got zero, and we got 38 million, and we got 2 million. That's $3 per...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u340	Mrs... Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. Marshal, one more sentence. Excuse me, we're a 1.5-hour delay, really. I'd like to know in detail if... Member, I apologize. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Thank you. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. The project provides for an exemption from real estate tax to cover all land, buildings and buildings in the area of parts of public use airports, including unbuilt land. According to the authors of the project, the aim is to clarify the rule, but according to local authorities the change will have a negative impact on their budgets. It's obvious. Unfortunately, this is another idea to cut local budgets from income. The change is not editorial or editorial. I would remind you that any tax exemption is an exception to the principle of universal taxation. The area covered by the exemption will in fact depend on the decision of the President of the Civil Aviation Authority. As a result, how do you refer to the judgment of the NSA of 27 September 2019 which stated that this exemption could benefit those land which is located in the area of parts of airports of public use (the Bell) but on which no buildings and buildings were located? Thank you. Why should local budgets be cut off from revenue once again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u342	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to the time. We're running late. I really don't like shortening speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the project is tailored to the new central national airport. It seems that the business plan does not go sideways, so one of the biggest fixed costs, i.e. local taxes, needs to be dealt with. When we adopt this bill, there will be no local taxes. Maybe the business will come together. The translation by the rapporteur is bogus and lying. The reason why we know all the athletes, footballers, basketball players, volleyballers and swimmers besides pilot medalists. So what? Are we gonna exempt all this stuff from taxes? And lying because we already have such tax conditions that we can exempt these objects from taxes without passing this bill, and it's done. Unfortunately, that's the truth. My second question is this. Goleniów Airport has been paying around 300,000 so far. zloty as taxes to the town of Goleniów. How much will he pay after this bill is passed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Probably nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, the flying Marshal Kuchciński has left in disgrace, but... Mr... ...has been infected with the passion of a free so-called aviation. The government's era... Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. ...all state officials. And from the state to the country. Mr. President, I asked you to... Do you know that all planes... Can't we make an appointment... ...governments are exempt from all charges... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u344	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. Can't we really work normally?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The exemption from public-use real estate tax for airports is a good solution for hundreds of Aeroclubs and air training centres. However, as it is obviously not true that the law does not generate financial consequences for the budgets of local governments, I would like to know how the state will compensate for these losses to local governments. I do not criticize the adoption of such a solution for sports and training airports, but I have doubts about its inclusion in the communication airports with commercial services. One last question. Why didn't you extend the airport directory to exclusive use? Such an airport is Babice airport in Warsaw and registered airfields, from which air services are also carried out, such as firefighters' Air Rescue Service and school-recreational flights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is acceptable only if you agree to an amendment excluding the commercial part. There is really no justification for an airport, which, for example. has net income, net profit: PLN 50 million per year - and this is an example of airport in Cracow in Balice - did not pay tax on restaurants, from free shops, where the rent rate is several hundred zlotys per 1 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u348	The question was meant to be. Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rural Union made comments to Members on the draft law. The association claims that, due to the planned exemption from the municipality's real estate tax, the airport will suffer a loss in its own income, especially since the existence of airports often causes infrastructure constraints in the neighbourhood. Therefore, please answer the following questions. First: Does the government provide for a return of revenue to municipalities that will suffer losses in income caused by the amendment of this law? Second: In the view of the government, is there no need for the European Union authorities to notify this law in connection with the planned public aid for airport companies? I kindly ask the government to respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Large airports, large amounts have been mentioned, but in my district there is the mentioned airport Rudniki in the municipality of Redzina, where problems may be even greater for local governments, only on a much smaller scale, of course. Well, the airport, a very well-deserved aeroclub in Częstochowa, after many peripetia has 6 hectares and 10 hectares of restricted area. Now this is the beginning of work on the bill. Please note this, for example, on the example of the airport in Rudniki near Częstochowa, because there is about 300 ha there - it is a complicated story - at the disposal of the Slovak citizen who owns it. Now it's gonna be an air part, so it's gonna be a tax-free vending machine. It is also a kind of specialty, because it can be a process (the bell) rolling... Thank you very much. Neighbor will agree and it will expand, expand for purposes... Because of a community like this...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u352	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the issue of regional airports is very important. Just so we're clear, half of these airports These are the airports that are on the downside. Self-governments pay more to these airports anyway. As a result, the question arises for applicants, shouldn't this bill actually distinguish between the number of passengers, the size of airports or the areas that they occupy, tax-related issues? This is the first question: Is this possibility being considered? Second question: Can we really get accurate calculations? Because we have airports where local governments and airports have shares, and we know how much they pay tax. We know if the local governments will eventually have a reduced tax. Third thing. Has it been analysed how to supplement the budgets of local governments with regard to those amounts which, as a result of the entry into force of this law, would not (the bell) fund the local budgets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I fully share what the applicant, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, has said in terms of the role and role of aeroclubs. But I was just... Will this solution apply to all land? Because here the word "grounds" is the key that works when it comes to the aviation part of airports of general interest, those run before commercial operators and those run by aeroclubs, and those that my colleague has just spoken of here. I think that we should go in this direction, such as: sets out the provisions already in force in this Act, which states that land, buildings or parts thereof are exempt from property tax exclusively for the purposes of the statutory association's education, education, science, physical culture and sport activities. So that's the exclusive. Shouldn't we therefore narrow it down to this part of the aeroclubs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u356	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually have three questions. First. I would like to know whether, according to the draft Tax Exemption Act, all land falling within the administrative limits of the airport, or only those on which the buildings, wheeled roads, parking plates and runways are located. Second question: How do you intend to compensate local governments for the loss of income they will feel in connection with the bill? Third: Will this project involve both aeroclubs and large airports to the same extent? 'Cause I think it's a very big difference. There's an aeroclub in Elbląg, too. It is difficult to call it an airport, but it is a small aeroclub, which serves the inhabitants, serving the community. I'm sure the city also slowed down this aeroclub. However, I would like to know (the bell) whether the same rules will apply to Aeroclubs and large airports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u358	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u359	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is bad. He throws small airports, aeroclubs, such as those that work mostly socially, and on the other side of the airport industry, i.e. airports where we can buy probably the most expensive bottle of water in Poland, wherever we go. If airports conduct commercial activities, it is to shape revenues accordingly. There are airports that have these million-dollar revenues, and they are also to be exempt from tax under these provisions. It is simply unfair to the inhabitants of the towns where these airports are located. In addition, the government plans the Central Communication Port, which is to be a money-making machine, and this port will also be exempt from charges. Now I ask that applicants provide information on how much (the bell) it will really cost to exempt airports from these charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u360	Thank you very much. I ask the applicant, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! A lot of comments were made here. At first, I wanted to thank the representatives of all the clubs for their substantive comments. A few general explanations because most of the questions were repeated. And I think these questions were due to a certain misunderstanding. Well, once again, I'll remind you what a part of the airport is. This is an area permanently intended for the take-off and landing of aircraft and associated aircraft traffic, including facilities for handling that traffic to which access is controlled. So, ladies and gentlemen, I know that the common understanding of parole... This initial entry in the bill, which is: buildings and buildings, and the land under them, indicates that the airport, especially aeroclub airport, which most often does not have a concrete belt, are two different things. That is: buildings and buildings, and other land. It's just that the rest of the land is a building. The airport is registered in the register of the Civil Aviation Authority and therefore the whole area benefits from the exemption, I will stress once again: it benefits from the exemption because most local governments are asking for it and - here even a few people have talked about it - supports the operation of regional aeroclubs. Now think about it. Some of the respondents paid attention to whether a certain separation should be made when it comes to exemptions, for example. exemptions for aeroclub airports and not for others. Analogical situation is in the case of roads. Public road lanes shall be exempt. We do not distinguish whether it is a communal road, whether it is a district road, a voivodeship, a national road, an express road or a highway. You can say that: well, let's introduce regulations so that municipal and district roads are exempt, and other roads, especially motorways and expressways, are not exempt from real estate tax. This would be an absurd solution. I don't think any of us would sign off on a project like this. In the case of aeroclubs, however, this idea is quite serious. Mr Trela asked directly about the airport in Łódź. He said he figured out that the airport was paying $300,000. PLN property tax per year. The point is that this airport does not pay any zloty property tax per year, because the local government does not charge this tax by interpreting the current provision of the law favorably for the airport manager. The problem is that some interpretations are detrimental to the aviation environment. But most of the local authorities absolutely actually and correctly understand these records, which is a building, which is part of the airport's airfield. This is only because it is not to put airport managers in such a difficult situation who do not know it. There's gonna be municipal elections. The present council, the present mayor, the mayor or the president will interpret this statement properly, i.e. beneficial - and in line with the intention of the legislator - for the airport manager, but after the election there may be some other advice, another mayor, another mayor, who will accept an unfavourable interpretation, i.e. that it belongs to those land which are located in the part of the airport air, but impose a property tax. You will admit that in such a situation, the situation of legal uncertainty is difficult to function. That's why it's a project. He's actually clarifying it. It's not like we're coming up with a new solution. There is no analogy here, because one of your fellow Members referred to railway solutions, layoffs on the railroad. The analogy is that the land, buildings and buildings were written down. You understand that the airport is not the building where it is, I don't know, the airport manager, where there are other hangars, etc. This is an area that allows you to land and take off aircraft. There's just no such analogy. I ask you to take a look at this problem, as it is said, sine ira et studio, calmly. This does not give rise to any financial impact in the vast majority of cases, because local governments, once again I will stress this, interpret this provision in the article. Paragraph 7 1 in such a way that they exempt these airports from tax. In short, they don't charge any taxes for this. Therefore, this amendment will not affect the level of income of these local government units. I'll have another look at the other questions. Will businesses benefit from the exemption? Companies won't benefit from the exemption because companies don't pay that tax. So that's a hypothetical question. Most of these questions were hypothetical questions, that is, in short, in which there was an assumption of a priori. I know where this came from. This came from reading these positions of the Association of Rural Municipalities and the Association of Polish Districts, which in their opinions presumed that these airports are taxed on property tax. I'll say it again: it's not. That argument is absolutely out of the question. Thank you again for all these questions and comments. Although there was one vote which meant a motion for rejection at first reading, the other clubs declared their willingness to work on the project. I therefore ask that, in the course of further parliamentary work, this project be read in the light that I am presenting it, into the justification of this project. I ask the High House to support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Rafał Weber also asked for a vote on this matter. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions were asked by Mr Szopiński to the government during this discussion. The Member asked for a written reply. Of course we will. Respecting the time of the High House, I will literally say in one sentence that the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding this project is a positive position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u364	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws (print No 1252). I kindly ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honor to present a draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No. 1252. This project works in the media under the name of anti-corruption law. The current wording has been prepared by Mr Kukiz15 and Mr Law and Justice. From this point on, I would like to thank the Members of the Law and Justice for paying attention to the ethically ambiguous behaviours in local governments and proposing a ban on the employment of wojettes, mayors or presidents in public companies, just as Kukiz has proposed for parliamentarians. At the same time, at the beginning of my speech, I appeal to the other Members. I invite you to engage in the preparation of such regulations, which will bring our standards closer to European standards in a short time. Corruption is a phenomenon that destroys political life, but particularly attacks economic and social life. Poland is important to us, it is all for us, so we want it to function smoothly, hence we propose harsh solutions that will perform a preventive function and will effectively safeguard our homeland through the devastating phenomenon of corruption. Without abuse, it can be said that corruption, so underestimated for 30 years, has contributed significantly to pushing 2.5 million Poles into economic emigration. Within the framework of the contested law, following the guidance contained in the CBA report, we propose an amendment to the Penal Code and six other laws, i.e. the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, on political parties, on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, on public finances, on sport and on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes and medical devices. Corruption isn't just money handed over in an envelope. Corruption is also the bankruptcy of companies that act ethically and are unable to compete with those that are unfairly favored. After all, corruption is also a waste of public resources, which are our common good and should be subject to special protection. Following the solutions introduced in Italy, we propose amendments to the Penal Code that, in addition to the sentence of imprisonment, they should be ruled simultaneously and, as a matter of fact, mandatoryly, prohibit the taking up of positions in public bodies and companies, local government, as well as in companies governed by commercial law, as well as the prohibition of applying for public contracts in order to prevent further ruining of Poland. This ban will be imposed for a period of between 1 and 15 years, which we may consider as a trial period, the first and last warning, for in the case of a redecidive, the ban will be imposed for life. We are aware that these are very strict solutions, but they are necessary to protect the democratic rule of law. In addition, it is proposed to suspend the limitation period for penalties during the period of public functions in order to ensure that sanctions for violations of the law are inevitable. The amendment of the provisions of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator bans the execution of the mandate of a Member and of a Senator to work in public institutions. It's the right thing to do. They should also be extended to include employment in companies governed by commercial law, as there is a need to eliminate from the public space a conflict between the public interest and the private interest of parliamentarians. Similarly, it is proposed to introduce a ban on public functions and employment in respect of mayors, mayors or city presidents. We are in favour of transparency and transparency of public life, which is why we propose that political parties keep and keep up-to-date two registers: a register of payments and a register of contracts. Both of these registers will be kept in electronic form and will be kept immediately and no later than 14 days after the date of conclusion of the contract, updated and published in the Public Information Bulletin, so that everyone can get acquainted with them. We propose similar solutions in the revision of the Public Finance Act, which stresses in particular the need to ensure transparency and transparency of public finances through the obligation to publish contract registers. Among the information contained in the register of contracts, it is also proposed to indicate any changes to those contracts. We are convinced that public and publicly available contract registers will contribute to a more efficient management of public funds, which are our common good. In addition, we propose that these anti-corruption solutions apply to the phenomena of corruption in sport, believing that this will contribute to the development of Polish sport and fair competition of athletes. The same is true of the perpetrators of corruption-related crimes as provided for in Article. 7 Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. The example of Italy, where similar solutions have been in place for several years, shows that effective fight against corruption is possible. We want Poland to be a rapidly developing, friendly country for citizens who trust public institutions and people performing public functions. I therefore allow myself to express my hope that all of you will support the proposed anti-corruption rules. I am simply appealing to Members of all groups to actively engage in these proposals so that Poland is a country where citizens will have a real sense of transparency of public life and lack of corruption, as changes in this area have been apparent for 30 years, as reported by both the Polish and the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! We are aware that this is the first step in this direction in order to win against corruption, because, as you have heard, in order for a person to lose his or her job and to be able to apply for public contracts, he or she must be convicted by a final judgment. That is why we hope that soon the judges of peace will be able to relieve the courts and that these very reprehensible corrupt behaviours will be judged in a short time. Of course, another law must be added to the transparency of public life, which would complement this whole package, namely the Anti-Sitva Act, so that people who are employed in public institutions must reveal their affinity, their families, which are in politics. The last element that complements this is a local referendum. The point is that citizens, if they see nepotism or other bad things that happen in communities, can very quickly, easily cancel their uncle, mayor or president. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u366	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr Sak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have a duty and a privilege to present the position of our club. The package of changes presented is another installment of the anti-corruption crusade of our environment, in particular the Solidarna Polska environment, especially in relation to people who have white collars, but unfortunately have dirty hands. There is a severe need for social change that will fight corruption, a disease of dirty hands in a ruthless and uncompromising manner. The perpetrator or potential perpetrator must feel the pressure and breath of the justice system. If he crosses this thin red line and enters the course of crime, he will be met not only by righteous but also by severe retribution. Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of public life, for the political class, it is important that we free ourselves from people of chance, black sheep, who destroy our reputation, who illegally use their positions and discount them, mercantize through geshifs or abuse. Therefore, the proposed provisions, e.g. by extending criminal measures in the form of a deprivation of public rights, a ban on the occupation of functions or the exercise of activity, emerge from this active fight against corruption. We must eliminate from public, state or local life those who have embezzled their obligations and rights, who are buying their positions. In addition to these changes which are presented, it is important to stress the prohibition on taking up posts, the prohibition on the deprivation of public rights, which will be a specific penalty of death, civil or professional death. There is no doubt, however, that there must be adequate and fair payback and response. In addition to these criminal criminal measures, the project aims to increase transparency and clarity, transparency of public life, for example by keeping records of contracts or contributions in relation to political parties. It abolishes a specific information embargo on the registers of contracts, for which the procedure under the Public Information Act had to be initiated so far, and now they will be available to the public. More orthodox provisions will be introduced as regards the possibility of carrying out non-communicable activities. This is a very good and sensible solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Every person who has a public function has received a large social tribute in the form of trust. If it is not able to limit itself, then there must be legal possibilities that will restrain and limit it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club supports the spirit of these rules. I think that, at a later stage in legislative work, we will be able to develop solutions that are the best and most optimal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u368	Thank you very much. The position of the Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project provides for an increase in penalties; more severe penalties are to be imposed. Okay, just tightening up penalties is one thing, and applying them in practice is another. The penalties will not be tightened if we cannot apply them effectively. And unfortunately, for some time now, since he's been in charge, he's been creating a security system... such a protective umbrella over his people. Do you remember the bill passed, according to which the prosecutor could have dropped the case from the court, and that was the case with the court? The court couldn't do anything. And then there were provisions that would deprive us of access to public information and obtain information on the reasons why the proceedings would be terminated or refused to initiate proceedings. If we want to fight corruption effectively, the same tightening of rules is not enough, these rules must be applied, and this must be done by the relevant authorities: CBA, Police, the prosecutor's office managed by Minister Ziobro. Because without effective action, nothing can be achieved in this regard. We will be working on this project, but I am already announcing today that we will be making amendments. There is no point in this text that relates to the statements of property of the spouses of the most important persons in the country and their publication in the Public Information Bulletin. As early as December 2019, we submitted a project on this issue, Clean Hands. So? He didn't even get his print number. The PiS promised a solution in this respect, a bill was passed, but the President addressed it to the Court, and there it was thrown into the epic drawer of Judge Przyłębska and probably will never be recognized. The project refers to the ban on the work of senators, Members, wojts, mayors and presidents in commercial law companies where the Treasury or local authorities have at least 10% shares or shares. But today we see how this situation is being celebrated. Today you can see how often not a Member or Senator works in a company, but his relatives, members of his family, sometimes in one, two, three or even four companies, their knowledge and experience have nothing to do with the rights that the company deals with. We will be working on this project, but I am already announcing amendments today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u370	Thank you, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u371	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The real test of the intention of the authors of this bill was during yesterday's session of the Sejm. Mr Sachajko and his colleagues had the opportunity to have a minister responsible for creating the largest political sitva in the companies of the Treasury in the history of the Third Polish Republic to bear political responsibility for this. I'm talking about Minister Sasina. And how did you behave? You saved him. You voted against giving him a vote of distrust because he's your coalitioner now, he's a colleague now. He doesn't bother you anymore. Now you think that we need to focus on local government, we need to focus on other people who perform public functions, not members of the Council of Ministers. Why is there no regulation here that directly affects the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki? The story of running away with your property, rewriting it to your wife is famous. You don't regulate this country completely. Mr President, please refer to the project very carefully, okay? Excuse me. Excuse me? Please refer to the project. But I refer to this project all the time... Well, not really. But, Your Marshal, I would really, really ask you not to disturb me. I understand that these arguments are painful, but that is the reality. You can create the most stringent law on paper, but it won't pass the exam unless there are appropriate institutions to enforce it. The Central Anti-corruption Bureau has become a political outbuilding of the ruling party. What did he do about the bribe of President Jarosław Kaczyński? Nothing, it took water in the mouth. And that's okay with you guys? You don't see a problem here? What does the prosecutor's office do about getting involved in issues that concern the politicians of the governing party? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a real problem. The important thing is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u372	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Left Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. [[Voice from the room: Come on, Christopher.]] [[I'm not going.]] Oh, no, I'm sorry. Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Club Left. I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: Welcome.]] [[With all my sympathy, but I'm not going.]] [[Your Marshal, please do not interfere with the performance.]] The speech must be on the subject, sir. You know that. [[But, Marshal, you're from following the rules, not judging the substantive statements.]] But don't make it any harder for your friend. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u373	But now you're taking my time. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Time's not on yet.]] Thank you. May I begin? This law is undoubtedly a law which in some way aims to heal Polish public life, including political life. Some of the records that are in it, we respect, are considered to be those that would actually make such an improvement. We want to work on this project, because in our opinion there are a number of shortcomings and lack of anticipation of the consequences of what it will look like in action. We think that the way to fight corruption is certainly to limit accessibility to other places where Members can work, which are in a sense linked to political nominations, but it is not possible to put such a barrier that, in principle, the possibility of public functions for those who have committed a mistake in their lives will be taken for life. Or a corruption crime. So that the changes that you are proposing, Members and Members of the applicant, are changes that we will certainly support in the direction, but think of phenomena such as the payment register issue. I'm talking about political parties here. These are also membership payments and payments of sympathizers and sympathizers. The Constitution guarantees us the protection of sensitive data and the non-disclosure of political sympathies. If a Polish citizen makes donations to a particular political party, it will somehow reveal his sympathies, political preferences, which we believe will not be in line with the Constitution. In our view, too, it is not appropriate for us to disclose contracts for the employment of private workers of political parties who are employed for a number of tasks such as accounting work, cleaning, administrative work, either, because these people may not wish to do so. It's not like there's a duty to be in a political party when there's accounting for it. Some of the members of the political parties are recruited from the labour market and we do not consider it appropriate that, in the case of employment contracts, these data are publicly available. That's why we're gonna want to work on this project. We will, of course, make amendments, but there is also a question of testing and political responsibility. If we really want to set up a dam of corruption now, why do you propose that this law should not apply to Members and Members of this term? Why does he have this? Don't concern us? Does anyone in this room have anything to hide? Does anyone in this room want to work somewhere else, in some place one of the mentioned: the Sejm, the Senate, the President of the Republic of Poland? Why not since this term and not from all the MEPs and MPs who are now doing this, what an honorable, public role? That is why we will make an amendment to delete the whole of the article. 8, which says that this law does not include Members and Members of the current term, because if we are introducing this, then let us introduce it also in relation to ourselves. Let's be responsible and don't be afraid to put such restrictions on ourselves, not that somewhere in the future... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u374	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u375	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present a position regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws contained in the sejm print No. 1252. This project is intended to introduce changes, among others. in the Penal Code, the Act implementing the mandate of Member and Senator, the Political Party Act, the Act limiting the conduct of business by persons performing public functions and the Public Finance Act. As a club, we judge the project highly because of its impact on the prevention of any pathology of public life. This is certainly a step in the right direction. As regards the substantive content, the draft provides that persons convicted of certain corruption offences may be deprived of public rights and that the court will have to rule against persons convicted of corruption offences on the prohibition of taking up any or certain positions or performing any or certain occupations, any or certain work in public bodies and institutions and local authorities, including companies governed by commercial law, where the Treasury or local government unit has at least 10% shares or shares. The removal of public rights would be decided for a period of between 1 and 10 years, while the prohibition on taking up posts would be imposed for a period of between 1 and 15 years. At the same time, it is assumed that a criminal measure to prohibit the taking of posts will be imposed by the court not only on a mandatory basis, but also on a life-long basis in the event of a repeat conviction of the perpetrator for the offence. The project also prohibits the merger of the work in such companies with the execution of the mandate of Member and Senator and with the performance of the function of governor, mayor or president of the city. However, this provision would not apply to persons who had been given a mandate in Parliament or who were in office in the local government before the entry into force of that law. And here's a small reservation, which I would like to make, because this is the impression of treating a certain category of people in an extremely preferential way. This may be a certain baggage burdening this project, because, what is much to say here, the representatives of the current authority are thus excluded from the scope of this project. I therefore think that we could be tempted to consult more widely, and maybe not so much politically, as social organisations and those that deal with transparency in public life. I know that some of these have taken place, but a new opening, a new legislative process would probably not harm the value of this project. However, this does not change the fact that as the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland we will, I think, support this project at the next stages. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u376	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The time has come for such a law to come into force, which will slow down certain urges, which are also on the side of the ruling camp today. It's very good that this is happening. We have here a project that is modelled on the Italian anti-corruption bill. In Italy the problem of corruption, fortunately for us, is bigger than it is for us, but that does not mean that in Poland this problem is irrelevant. Such a law is therefore a step in the right direction. In Poland, however, we have to remember this - and I would like it to sound today - that there are equally big problems, and perhaps even bigger ones, there are some dependencies, links just at the interface of the state, companies of the Treasury with e.g. international corporations or lobbying forces. At this point it is worth pointing out that there would probably be an anti-sitva law, but this might be a topic for later discussion. The same is true of the prohibition introduced by this Act on mergers of public functions and employment in companies of the State Treasury, in companies governed by commercial law, where at least 10% shares are held by public entities. It is prohibited to employ e.g. Members, senators, it is also proposed to refer this to the voivodships. However, we lack some reference to this, e.g. To the councilmen. Because we have different situations, even today - I learned about it - the situation in the Lubuskie voivodeship is interesting, where some councillors employ others, and the guarantee is simply political loyalty. This situation is unhealthy, and this happens, for example. in urban companies. This can't be the case, which is why we're probably going to make amendments, because, as I said at the beginning, the direction is fine. I also like the provision concerning the prohibition of public functions, working in entities associated with the Treasury or taking part in tenders if you are already convicted of corruption and there has been a redecision. Great, good, let it happen. At least he'll cut off a little business while one hand washes the other. I have some doubts about whether or not I am wondering what is the situation regarding the financing of political parties. Because there is no doubt, as mentioned earlier by your messenger, the golden means and many people would not want information about where they work or who they pay money to be public information. Perhaps it would be worth considering, or explain to the applicant what it would look like. Thank you. I'm giving the voice to Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u378	Thank you. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u379	I have mixed impressions about this bill. Unfortunately, I have the impression that it largely distracts attention from the essence of the problem. What is corruption? Corruption is a side effect of regulation. Corruption is a side effect of entrusting too much power to officials. Corruption is the result of someone else making a decision and someone else bearing the cost of this decision. Corruption is created under such conditions, and it is the result of historical, global, rather inevitable experiences. No matter how intense the fight against corruption was, and in some countries the death penalty was threatened, corruption was still there because there was so much pressure between the market, the needs of life, meaningless regulations and regulations that it had to find an outlet somewhere. In such a state of overregulation as we are in Poland at the moment, corruption is often the only way to avoid bad, stupid rules. Unfortunately, it is a sad necessity. But I'm afraid if we were to push the screw so effectively in some cases, life would become even more burdensome than it is if all the stupid, bad rules started to be 100%. enforced. What are the effects of previous ways of fighting typically bureaucratic as in this case? Mostly none. A typical manifestation of such a senseless struggle are e.g. a statement of property where this exhibitionism of property of Members would prevent something. The quality of the regulations issued by the Sejm from this has not improved at all. This deposit register is absolutely to be deleted. I can imagine, I don't know, for example. an employee of the Sejm Chancellery under the service authority of a marshal who would like to fund his payment to the Confederation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think he's gonna have to think 10 times at this point if he makes that provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u380	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 welcomes the draft law with interest. In particular, we subscribe to the statement in the explanatory memorandum: The entry into force of the proposed changes will contribute to increasing public confidence in public institutions, public money-using entities and public functions. In order for the projectors to confirm their sincere intentions - and not even doubt them for a second - they should already think about the amendments concerning matters that the previous speakers have spoken about today, or propose an amendment resembling the clergy, even the archbishops, that they cannot perform public functions according to canonical law, so they can't even be chiefs. And that happened recently. We're gonna join in with the enthusiasm for the Seymary's work. I'm sure the designers are already getting comments, hints, suggestions. Perhaps you have received a letter from Mayor Bartosz Romowicz just as I have received it. The lawyer, an experienced self-government officer, stresses that those who will be elected as mayors, mayors or presidents after 1 January 2022 will not be able to do any activities for the benefit of companies or to sit on their bodies. Mayor Ustrzyk asks why the ban should apply only to wojts, mayors, presidents, not members of county boards, executive bodies at voivodeship level, treasurers, management directors of organizational units, etc.? He's asking another question. According to him, the new law speaks of other activities in commercial law companies, which, according to this local governmentman, is a concept that is too open and too spacious. The prohibition in this way applies not only to employment for employment contracts, contract contracts, work contracts and other such contracts in order to perform any functions in bodies but also to any benefits free of charge to companies. It does not have to be such an abstract example, when the governor as proverbial Kowalski - I hope that the Member is not angry, but is not yet in the Chamber - will conclude a voluntary agreement with the company, for example. As part of some charity action, which is already going to be a violation of the ban. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 assures that it is too wide-ranging public disclosure, and therefore each of our Members will present concrete solutions during further work, as well as amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 - Direct Democracy, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws. This project operates in the media under the name of anti-corruption law. The problem of corruption concerns not only Poland, but is present in all countries of the world, but its scale varies significantly and depends on the anti-corruption arrangements applied in individual countries. Not wanting to repeat the proposals for anti-corruption solutions, which I discussed a few minutes ago as rapporteur for this law, I will start with the history of its creation. The project is modelled on the Italian solution introduced by the Five Star Movement in December 2018 and then made available to Paul Kukiz by the Italian Deputy Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio. As a draft law prepared by Mr Kukiz,15 entered the Marshal's staff in March 2019 and passed through the first reading in the plenary room. Unfortunately, he did not get second reading, third reading. I will ask the question: Why have the solutions proposed in this project not been implemented in the last 30 years? Or is it because fish are easier to catch fish in muddy water, that is, to get lucrative, overpaid contracts, or to get well paid jobs? Or maybe - which is equally likely - almost 50 years of forced so-called. Socialism ruined our innate sensitivity to good and evil? I'll start with some statistics. For many years in Poland we have registered about 30,000. Corruption crimes per year, and in the Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International Poland takes 45th place, behind Lithuania and Estonia. Poland and Malta are also mentioned in the report as negative examples. Both countries have recorded the lowest index since 2012. The statistics cited do not encourage optimism, so Members of the Kukiz Posel Wheels15 - Direct Democracy encourage other clubs and circles to work in substance to radically eliminate people who are going to corruption from their public and economic lives. The draft law was prepared by the Kukiz Group15 and the Law and Justice Group. The fight against corruption should not be political. Corruption is nothing more than robbery in broad daylight. This is just as disgusting as extortion of VAT, pedophilia or alcohol-induced traffic offences that have been banned for life. The State gives everyone the opportunity to work for the common good, and when the mandate of trust is abused, it should be taken away for the rest of its life. Working in public institutions and applying for public contracts is a privilege, not an obligation, and those who rob Poles should be deprived of such opportunities for the rest of their lives. The solutions presented in the project focus on prevention. This is much more effective and cheaper than detection, prosecution and judgment. It's like medicine: it's better to prevent than to cure. The project assumes two fundamental solutions: exclusion from public life and cut-off from money, public procurement. Public bodies should enjoy particular trust and transparency. I would stress that public institutions are not the only place to work in Poland, therefore people working in them should be aware of the honour and responsibility, representing the institutions of the Polish state before citizens. Corruption is also a huge economic loss because, on the one hand, we pay much more for goods and services, but on the other hand, we lead to worse conditions and even bankruptcies of companies that are ethical and do not resort to corruption. To conclude, I would like to recall one of the demands expressed in the last term by Members of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice during the work on the draft anti-corruption law of Kukiz15, namely the proposal to extend the transparency of funding to NGOs. In our view, this is a good proposal because the transparency of funding is crucial for the future of Poland, and I hope that the State from the Civic Platform and the United Right will support these solutions in the bill. I kindly ask the High House to proceed with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u384	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, The official shoe, human dishonesty, greed and ease in breaking the law are factors that lead to corruption, but unfortunately their rule here can also be described with these qualities. When the Platform ruled, in Poland the level of corruption was steadily falling, please take a look here. According to Amnesty International, the moment we took over the PiS government, we were in 61st place. Later, we regularly went up to 29th place. In 2015, the Council The PiS took over for us. And what happened? 2017 - 36th place, 2019 - 41st place, 2020 - 45th place. I'm asking you to explain to the people why this change is happening, since they say the state and the prosecution are doing a great job. No new penalties will stop corruption in Poland (the bell) as long as they rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u386	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! While the need to discuss the elimination of potential areas of public-interest conflicts deserves approval, the way in which this law is dealt with raises serious doubts. The discussion should take place with representatives of central administration and local government. I ask you to answer the question of why such important solutions, which amend a number of laws, among others. The Penal Code, the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, the Law on Political Parties and the Act on the Limitation of Business Activity by Persons with Public Functions shall be considered as a parliamentary project without the participation of representatives of the environments concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, you're making very important regulations without asking anyone's opinion. Was there any public consultation on this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think Amnesty International has shown that the CBA is working because if there's a jump in the cases found, then it's confirmed that we're fighting corruption. I am very pleased that this project has gone to the High House and that we can work together on it. When I signed up for the questions, there was a question about the division of the political class. I am very pleased that the rapporteur said that he sees the whole political class, I mean the local government, and all of us. Corruption must be distinguished from transparency and transparency. What's different is corruption... Of course, let us talk about this, but I would also like us to talk about the transparency of public life and the transparency of funding. These are three separate things. Let's leave them out of this. It would be good for us to focus on the work on corruption and transparency, and we wish that this project be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u390	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Citizens need to be sure that the State is taking preventive action without compromising those who have committed abuse. However, it is different from the declaration of uncompromisingness, but it is different from the actions of power, and these speak for themselves. As for corruption, let us use the example of a person who is supposedly gifted by God with unique abilities. This man has been accused of corruption, and now the rulers have made sure that this case is not tried by the court, through the introduction of a regulation whereby the prosecutor has the opportunity to bring and withdraw an indictment from the court, from which Minister Ziobra's office has taken good advantage. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 64 The rights of the prosecutor's office to act as a public prosecutor allow the prosecution to be revoked if the outcome of the judicial proceedings does not confirm the accusation. This requires neither the court's consent nor the defendant's own. Political and not substantive aspects (The Bell) of the prosecutor's disposal were so intentional that no argument could be found that would undermine the legitimate criticism of his decision. Thank you very much, Member. Wouldn't it be fair... Mrs... ...to abolish or reserve the withdrawal of an indictment with the court's consent? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u392	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who do not have a mask on their face, to assume. There are people in the room who may be in danger, reporting it. Mr President, this is for you, too. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight against corruption is very important and requires a very serious approach from the legislator. Looking at the list of Members who signed up for this project, I see there a whole throng of people who yesterday raised their hand in defending their party colleagues who are subject to very serious allegations made by the Supreme Board of Control. In the explanatory memorandum, the designer wrote, quote: The State treats people who have committed abuse in an uncompromising manner. According to the High Sejm, is this a serious approach to this uncompromisingness? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u394	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Any honest attempt to stop the cancer of corruption that is taking place in our country requires loving attention. I have a lot of doubts. I'd like an answer to one of them. Well, according to the article. 40 § 3 the court may rule on the deprivation of public rights in connection with the conviction for..., and there are listed types, corruption offences, and art. 41 § 1 the court shall rule, i.e. it must declare, prohibit the pursuit of employment in the state, local government sector. I wanted to know, regardless of the analyses, the opinions of the specialists, the carnivalists above all, simply from the Minister, what was the message and the philosophy that the court in one part could decide, and in the other, the ruling, without giving specific reasons (the bell), i.e. any interpretation of the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u397	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the fight against corruption, nepotism are very important issues, and I think that we all share the view that tools must be used to reduce these phenomena. But I have a question for the Member who presented the bill. Well, under the rule of law and justice, corruption rates have deteriorated significantly in Poland, and the state recently signed a coalition with this party. What's it like with the fight against corruption? After all, you are strengthening this power during the term of office of which these indicators have deteriorated. So, do you want to strengthen this harmful trend, or do you want to fight it? And the second question is, why do you want to fight corruption, but you're only pushing it away for another term (the bell) instead of starting now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u398	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please explain in detail how the provisions introduced in Article are implemented. 6 to the Sports Act are intended to contribute to the development of sport and competition. How many people have been convicted by art so far. 46, 47 and 48 Sports Act? I'm asking for this information in writing. We are talking about corruption here, and I am worried that there are still no rules to strengthen the safety of players in sport. It has been violated repeatedly by harassment, mobbing, violence, discreditation, discrimination or even forced sex. The player relationship - the coach, the player - the activist or other similar, very important, the master - the student. Me Too action, loud all over the world - the problem is still sweeping under the rug in Poland. Vulgar, negative, and unworthy behaviors, and we know that there are many of these tragedies. When are the police records finally going to have a clearly known area where there is (the bell) violence, harassment? Thank you very much. When you introduce the rules that coaches or people... Thank you. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. ...who work with children, will have to have no criminal record? Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u400	Yes, I have read the honourable Member, I have invited her to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is needed and we should fight fraud. Designed records and all changes are very restrictive - people with public functions should always be flawless. Will it therefore be effective to tighten up the rules? In my view, this needs to be further clarified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u402	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important project, which concerns the introduction in the Criminal Code of rules aimed at increasing the effective fight against corruption, as well as ensuring greater transparency, clarity and transparency for public service holders. The bill should actually heal public life and be a barrier to those performing public functions in the field of corruption and connection. I ask: Why, then, did the law not include the most important people in the country? Why does the proposal not apply to current Members and Senators? Why does the project exclude all present representatives of the government and their family? An example should go from above. This should be a real anti-corruption bill, not a soaping of the eyes of Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The amendment of the Act also provides for the amendment of the Act on Sports and the mobilisation of public rights deprivation and the ruling on the occupation of public posts for crimes in sport provided for in the Act on Sports, i.e. the setting of sports results, mutual games Or sports bribery. I would like to ask you: Have you considered similar legal solutions - and I am directing this to the Member of the applicant - to apply to all those who use doping in sport? This is very important from an educational point of view, when sports people participate in doping scandals, then receive disqualification for 3 and 5 years. I believe that the application of similar criminal sanctions, as provided for here, should also be considered for corruption in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We cannot disagree when we read in the explanatory memorandum of this law that standards need to be raised for those who perform the mandate of a Member or a Senator. It's true. On the other hand, my question is: Why wait two years? After all, since you can see that these standards are not quite right, since we see that there are Members who combine positions in the Treasury companies with the mandate of a Member, since these doubts arise, my question is: Why wait? It seems to me that the amendment that would allow this law to enter from this term of office would be the most appropriate and fairest. At this point, we are diagnosing an unhealthy situation, and at the same time we are doing everything we can to delay the solution to this problem in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u408	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen in the first place. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u409	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This project represents an important step in the fight against corruption in Polish public life. Therefore, as a representative of the government, I would like to make a positive point, in detail in writing, but I will refer to the most important points. Firstly, it contains two important objectives. Basically, the idea is to eliminate those convicted of corruption in public life from this public life, and to prevent them from seeking public procurement or operating in public life by means of a clear and strict legal response. Secondly, it is about maintaining clear and transparent principles of public life. This is primarily about financing political parties, which are the primary link of the democratic rule of law, but also of other bodies that have public resources to ensure that the principles are clear and transparent in terms of their financing or contract conclusion. The two objectives of this project are realized. In detail, I would like to point out that the optional deprivation of public rights for corruption and related crimes, such as corruption with sport, with pharmacological measures, with foodstuffs, is very important, mainly because this measure, as far as possible, and therefore optionally adjudicated, responds to the question of the Member, first of all constitutes an appropriate legal response to the wrong done, second of all, preventing the exploitation of profits by the perpetrator convicted of corruption. Secondly, a compulsory criminal measure in the form of a ban on labour in commercial companies, where the Treasury or local government units account for more than 10% Shares or shares are another element in eliminating these black sheep from public life and preventing them from benefiting. This measure will be mandatory. In addition, he will be lifeless in a situation where these people once again commit the crime they committed. Optional measure in the form of a deprivation of public rights and a compulsory measure in the form of a ban on work and a bid for public procurement. In addition, this second objective, which I mentioned, is implemented through a ban on the work of a Member, a governor, a mayor or a city president in all places where there would be a potential conflict of interest. This is a very important solution from the point of view of transparency and transparency in public life. The point is that these people are beyond any suspicion that they cannot be involved in a conflict of interest, even if they are potentially involved. The very important solution that we have not discussed today is to exclude the limitation of corruption offences committed by the mobs, mayors or presidents in connection with and during their duties. As a government, we declare our full support for further parliamentary work. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I support the bill presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u410	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15, also requested answers to the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank many parliamentarians who have spoken here, who see the need to adopt such a law. I even liked those voices that said she'd tighten it up. Of course, I'll repeat, there's no permission for corruption. The fight against corruption should not have any political colors. I'm very happy for you. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been several attacks on this bill. Law and Justice will not rule forever. Someday other groups will gain power and will be able to benefit from the provisions of this law. The statements of representatives of the Civic Coalition were extremely political. Dear Mrs Barbara Dolniak really spoke next to this bill and did not listen to what I was talking about. Indeed, the healing of the judiciary is very important. We're preparing a bill on the judges of peace. It is the judges of peace who will relieve the courts and will be able to quickly punish corruption crimes. You, too, are trying to strike law and justice, asking why statements of property of loved ones are not disclosed. [[Why?]] In my opinion, they should be disclosed, but Mrs Barbara Dolniak and her colleague seem to have personal experience with it by Mr Petru, who thus hid his fortune. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no interest in hiding anything. It's the law that reveals everything. Both, Madam President, have something on their conscience, and therefore let us break it off, let us not pass it on from one to the other. Mr. Arkadiusz Myrch is accusing us of working with the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we work with anyone who wants to implement our demands. The state has been in power for so long and has not prepared such an anti-corruption law, and at the moment they resent us for working and introducing system solutions to prevent it. I'm glad Mrs. Anna Maria Żukowska wants to work on this bill. But he has a reservation that we want people who have been tried for corruption, who have been denied the possibility of working in public institutions or applying for public contracts for life. If someone stole once, they get probation, but if someone stole twice already, it's not like he made a mistake once. After all, he has to be convicted twice so that he can't work for life or apply for contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, this is public money. If someone's stealing, how many times do we have to give him a chance? Would you give a child molester the same chance? How about the second time? Or the drunk who hit or killed someone on the street? How about if he kills a second or a third person? No. When he stole it, he stole it. Going on: Mr Urbaniak draws attention - I am very pleased that a few people have pointed out - that it may be appropriate to extend it also to local authorities, councillors. Only, ladies and gentlemen, councillors often earn very little money and we can exclude some valuable people from participating in local governments. Isn't that some kind of discrimination? If anybody's a clerk, can't he be a councilman anymore? What's that? They're supposed to be all businessmen out there? Then you will say that this is also wrong, because entrepreneurs can write or vote only for entrepreneurs. What's that? Are they all unemployed? But I'm glad you want to work on it. There were two votes, including Dobromir Sosnierz, saying that the deposit register should be classified. Ladies and gentlemen, politicians represent the nation. If someone's afraid to reveal that they represent him, then something's wrong with his beliefs. But the worse thing is, whoever pays requires it. Here I address the Confederation in particular. It is particularly important to disclose these revenues so that we know who pays for a given batch, because then we know what environments the group supports. Moving on, there was a question for you... [[Voice from the room: End!]] No, not yet. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Mr. President, maybe we should... Thank you. Mrs. Henrya Krzywonos said it wasn't enough. You're right. The rules aren't enough. That's why I said that for the smooth operation of this and other laws we need anti-corruption law, anti-sitva law, referenda. This whole Kukiz citizens' package15 is needed, so I'm glad you noticed. Mrs Płępek asked why this is done by means of a parliamentary law rather than a government law. Perhaps you do not know that Members should write laws and that the government should implement them. That is what MEPs are for, to consult, write laws and implement them. About the questions about corruption and why there's sports... If you open a document on the fight against corruption by the CBA, please... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'll answer that. See, you have a detailed table from which article, under which law how many reports, how many were there Convicts. My friend Sunday, I think, yelled, consultation. Madame, you know best that there is a committee since the consultation. There's a consult at the committee meeting, and we're consulting... Madam President, we, when preparing this bill, have consulted with many environments, but if there are other environments, we invite everyone to committee meetings, because that should be the committee. It should not have been as recently as it was, that Parliament is for a parliamentarian, the social side cannot come. It shouldn't be that the pharmacy is for the pharmacist and the school is for the teacher. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u412	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws, contained in print No. 1252, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I declare... [[The voice from the room: I submitted...]] But no one mentioned the name of the Member. [[Voice from the room: He exchanged.]] [[He was trading, of course.]] Excuse me, I've closed the discussion. I'm calling a five-minute break. May I remind you that your marshal invites the Convention to a dark living room. Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I've already announced a recess. I'm sorry. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 02 hours 19 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. And for starters, I ask all of you to stand up. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! June 29th this year The 80th anniversary of the death of the great Pole and the outstanding artist Ignacy Jan Paderewski. He was a co-founder of our independence. He always remembered our homeland and always served it. He was her best ambassador. Let us pay tribute to the great Pole, worshiping him with a minute of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Poznań June 1956, print No 1327. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the performance of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, - amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1292 and 1301 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the amendment of certain laws relating to benefits to the family, print No 1300. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the Education System and the Law on the Financing of Educational Tasks, - on the amendment of the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, - amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in No 1312, No 1334, No 1298, No 1320 and No 1297 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the information of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, on the actions taken by the prosecutor's office. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this item on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Poznań June 1956 (prints 1310 and 1327). I ask Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture, which rarely happens, has drawn up a draft resolution by the Sejm on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of the Poznań Uprising - June 1956. The bill was drafted by Mr Rafał Grupiński. I will read you the content of this resolution and I would like to say that I am really proud that the committee in such agreement worked on its content. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 28 June 1956, on the streets of Poznań, demanding 'freedom and bread', workers of Poznań's workplaces went out protesting against the terrible conditions of life in the region and in the country. The direct cause of the revolt of the workers was a long-standing conflict in the Zakłady im. Joseph Stalin (formerly and today im. Hippolite Cegielski), employing about 13 thousand. persons. Their crew demanded reimbursement of wrongly charged taxes on withdrawals, improved safety conditions and better organisation of work, which would end the factory's hours of downtime. Employee demands have also been made to raise wages and lower prices, especially food. After the failed mission of the delegation of workers to Warsaw, a general strike began, and then - a manifestation on the streets of the city. The communist authorities to fight the protest, spilled all over Poznań, directed alongside militias and UBs, including the army: 10,000. soldiers and e.g. 359 tanks. The fights on the streets lasted two days and ended with a bloody pacification of the city. At least 70 protesters were killed, more than 600 were injured, more than 700 demonstrators were arrested, nearly 300 were arrested. Persecution lasted long after the days of rebellion. Repression was also given to the defender of the mecs that were arrested. Stanisław Hejmowski. They strongly believed that Poland was under Soviet occupation, and therefore their protest turned into an independent uprising against the power of foreign power. Another reason for the Poznań Uprising - June 1956 was the fact that the communist authorities spent less money on investments in Poznań and Wielkopolska than in other parts of the country, explaining the need to support the most backward areas. The salaries were also lower than in other regions of the country. The Poznań Uprising - June 1956 echoed widely in the country and in the world and was the main beginning of the later partial democratisation of public life in Poland and in other countries of the so-called at the time. Socialist camp. It has also become a reference point for the next workers' protests in Poland and one of the ideal foundations of the universal 'Solidarity' movement, which was born thanks to the democratic opposition and the workers' strikes on the Coast in 1980. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors the heroes of the Poznań Uprising - June 1956. Poland will never forget you. Please accept this by acclamation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u414	Thank you. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of the Poznań Uprising - June 1956. We would like to return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law - Civil Code. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1218-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act - Civil Code, print Nos 1125, 1218 and 1218-A. At its meeting of 24 June 2021, the committee examined the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission calls on the High Sejm to reject amendments 1 and 2. Attention, amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u416	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1218. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 446 This amendment is combined with the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 81 - for, 232 - against, 117 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1218, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Civil Code. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family (prints No 1286 and No 1298). I ask Mrs Beata Arrow to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, print No 1286. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 22 June this year. the above resolution to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Commission at its meeting on 22 June this year. examine the five amendments of the Senate and propose that the Sejm adopt amendments 1, 3 and 5, amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together and 2 and 4 rejected. These amendments should also be voted on together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u418	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 and 3. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: We can't see, we can't see.]] 430 Members voted. Two for, against - 428, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. Point 6 (1) of the Senate proposes the annual valorisation of the amount of income entitled to receive the benefit from the maintenance fund from 2022 onwards. This amendment is linked to the 4th Senate amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 4, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But there is nothing there.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Your Marshal, there is nothing out there.]] 430 Members voted. For - 229, 200 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 23 The Senate proposes that Article. 1 of the Amending Act entered into force on 1 December 2021. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 1 for, against - 427, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of certain laws relating to benefits to the family. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (Prints No 1293 and 1297). I ask Elizabeth Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u419	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and certain other acts of printing No 1293. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 22 June 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for its consideration. The Social Policy and Family Committee, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 22 June 2021, asks the High Sejm to reject the 1st Senate amendment, with amendments from 1 to 3, from 8 to 13, 15 and 24 voting in total, amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. - reject amendments 6, 7, 14, 16 and 19 in total, amendments 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. - reject amendments 17 and 18, accept amendments 19 and 20. - reject, with amendments 20, 21 and 25 voting in total, amendments 21 and 22. - Reject, Amendment 23. - accept, and amendments 24 and 25. - Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u420	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 19. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 21 and 22 to Articles. 15g. Amendments 2 and 3 from 8 to 13 and 15 and 24 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 1 to 3, from 8 to 13 and 15 and 24 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 229 - for, 200 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 15ggb paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes not to give a new wording to point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 229 - for, 200 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 15ze The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 230 for, against - 199, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 15zs The Senate proposes among others. delete paragraph. 2. Amendments 7, 14, 16 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6, 7, 14, 16 and 19, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 229 - for, 199 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment to the article. 31zq paragraph. 1 and 3 The Senate proposes editorial and legislative changes. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 18. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 17 and 18 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. No one was against - 428, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 20th amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 2nd Amending Act. Amendments 21 and 25 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20, 21 and 25 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 229 - for, 200 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 6 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 229 - for, against - 200, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 7th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. No one was against - 427, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws (Prints No 1284 and 1301). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u421	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 11 amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments today, recommends that all amendments be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u422	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the first amendment to Article. 22a paragraph. 3, Article 28k paragraph. 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 226 - for, 200 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 22a The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 228 - for, 194 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 130a point 2 of the Senate proposes a legislative change. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 228-- for, 200-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 138j paragraph. 6 The Senate proposes a legislative change in point 2. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 229 - for, 200 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 138j paragraph. 6 In point 2, the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 229 - for, 201 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 8th Amendment Act. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 10 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 229 - for, 201 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 11th Amendment Act. This amendment is combined with the 11th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 228 - for, 201 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. The 12th Amendment Act. This amendment is combined with the 9th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 230 for, 198 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments (prints Nos 1287 and 1312). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 June, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry considered two amendments addressed to this committee the day before, which the Senate adopted to the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. Following the work on these amendments, the committee recommends that the High House adopt both amendments put to the vote together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u424	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 72. Point 2 (2) of the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments The Senate also proposes to repeal lit. f. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. No one was in favor, 421 against, 9 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Prints No 1288 and 1334). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report on the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. In its resolution, the Senate made a statement to reject the law in its entirety. The Health Committee, after today's meeting, recommends the High House to reject the Senate's resolution and thus adopt the Sejm Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u426	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 20 May 2021 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 20 May 2021 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 239 - for, 191 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology (prints No 1285 and 1292). I ask Mr Wiesław Szczepański to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report to the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Implementation of Business Activities in the Field of Manufacturing and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military and Police Purpose Products and Technology. The Senate made 11 amendments to the bill. The Commission decided on 21 June to recommend the adoption of all 11 amendments. At the same time, the committee proposes that amendments 1 to 7 and 9 be voted together on amendments 8, 10 and 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u428	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 7. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police-purpose products and technology. In the first amendment to Article. 44 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment in the following paragraph. 2d. Amendments 2 to 7 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 7 and 9 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. No one was in favor, 429 against, holding off on one. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to add an article. 1a to the amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 2 for, 426 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 2a to the amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] It's working now. 430 Members voted. No one was for, 428 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes to add an article. 3a to the amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 1 for, against 428, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police-purpose products and technology. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Education System and the Act on the Financing of Educational Tasks (Prints No. 1289 and 1300). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the system of education and the Act on the financing of educational tasks, print no. 1289. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were adopted on 22 June this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The committee meeting was held on 22 June. The Commission requests that the Senate's resolution be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u430	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 28 May 2021 amending the Law on the system of education and the Law on the financing of educational tasks. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 28 May 2021 amending the Law on the Education System and the Law on the Financing of Educational Tasks, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 241 - for, 188 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of education and the Law on the financing of educational tasks. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives (Prints No. 1283 and 1320). I ask Mrs Beata Arrow to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, print No 1283. Marshal of the Sejm on 22 June this year. addressed this resolution to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission at its meeting yesterday examined the five amendments of the Senate and asks the High Sejm to accept the amendments tabled. In total, amendments 1 and 5 and 2 and 4 should be voted on in accordance with the recommendation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u432	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. In the first amendment to Article. 3 of the amended Act, the Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 5. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 5, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Nobody was for, 430 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 2 to 4. The Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 23b, Art. 25 and Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 2 to 4 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 425, 1 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We are returning to the review of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1212-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft Government Act amending the Social Insurance Act and other laws from print No 1188. At its 33rd meeting, the Sejm again referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The Commission at yesterday's meeting considered all the amendments and recommended that all amendments be rejected and the law adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u434	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1212. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Social Security Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 13. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 196 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 14 applicants shall propose in paragraph. 2 not repeal point 2 or amend paragraph 2. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 197 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 24 applicants shall propose not to amend paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 196-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 198 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 6 to 10 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending law containing amendments to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 2a and 2b in Article 25a. Amendment 13 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 197 for, 230 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose not to repeal the Article. 110 and 110a. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 198 for, 230 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th Amendment, applicants propose not to repeal Article. 110 and 110a and the amendment to Articles 110 and 110a. Paragraph 113. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 187 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 112 and 113. Amendment 15 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 197 for, 232 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 130 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (1) and (2) (a) b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm winning the machine. [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Really, I speak faster than the machine counts. [[Applause]] 430 Members voted. 200 for, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 11 and 12 were tabled in Article. 4 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose not to add paragraph. Article 2 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 190 - for, 233 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 198 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.1212, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 231 - for, 176 - against, 24 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1248-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 1018. At its 33rd meeting on 23 June 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1248 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy considered the amendments tabled at its meeting on 23 June 2021 and recommended that the 1st amendment be rejected and amendments 2 and 3 be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u436	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1248. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the first amendment to Article. 14and applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 185 - for, 239 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 14and applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 417 - for, 11 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 421 - for, 9 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1248, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 420 - for, 1 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1304-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u437	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit an additional report to the Committee on Public Finances from print No 1304-A on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Act - Bank law, print No 1236. At its 33rd meeting of 23 June 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1304 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 24 June 2021, requests that amendments 1, 2 and 3 be rejected. votes jointly and adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u438	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1304. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In Amendment 1. to Article. 108b of the Goods and Services Tax Act, the applicants propose that in paragraph 108b. 11 plus the second sentence. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 201 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1304, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 428 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1258-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Katarzyna Maria Bakerska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! During the second reading, the only amendment was tabled to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws, namely that amendment was tabled by the Law and Justice Club. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs leaned on it today on the twenty-fourth. The Commission recommends adopting the amendment as well as adopting the whole project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u440	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1258. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the only amendment, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 2nd draft law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 430 for, 2 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.1258, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 428 - for, 3 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1296-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna April to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report of the Health Committee, print No. 1296-A, on the government bill amending the Act on the Medical Research Agency and some other laws, print No. 1259. At its 33rd meeting of 23 June 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law to the Health Committee in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends to the High House the support of Amendments 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and the rejection of Amendments 2, 3 and 4, including amendments 5, 6, 8 and 9. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u442	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1296. The Commission is also presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose to add point 2a to the appeal of a member of the Council of the Agency for Medical Research before the end of the term of office of the Board. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 237 - for, 193 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 1 (5) (a) e applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12th Act on the Medical Research Agency. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 193 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Point 8 of point 1 shall be proposed by the applicant to delete point (a) of the first subparagraph. c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 189 - for, 231 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. Two, three, and five, nine. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the 7th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 198 - for, against - 227, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add an article. 4a containing amendments to the Act on State Medical Rescue. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add an article. 4b including amendments to the Refund Act on medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. These amendments are accompanied by amendments 8 and 9. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 5, 6, 8 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 278 - for, against - 29, 126 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 6 (1) applicants propose to amend the content of the document.The right to pursue the profession of physiotherapist. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 283 - for, against - 28, 121 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1296, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 236 - for, 193 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on political parties. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1256. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which the Sejm will vote first. All minority applications have been submitted to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the law on political parties. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 9 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 201 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 10a. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 176 - for, 255 - against, 2 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1256, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 431 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Political Party Act. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1210-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u443	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure. Four amendments were made to the print project no. 1090. One amendment was tabled by around Poland 2050, one amendment - by the Left and two amendments - by the Civic Coalition. The adoption of the amendments of the Civic Coalition would mean that it would be as it was and, after all, it cannot be considered that the Polish State is now obliged to bear the costs of the actions of the communist authorities, including administrative decisions made by them. The actions of the communist authorities of the regime, which adopted acts that were not in line with current standards, and also generally violated even the laws they constituted, cannot burden the current Polish state. I would like to stress that the full responsibility... The responsibility for the pathology of the period of the Polish People's Republic is not borne by the abstract sovereign, but in fact all of us, taxpayers, residents of the city or municipalities, who bear the consequences of the liability of municipal budgets. In fact, the unlimited implementation of damages for decisions sanctioned by annulment has very negative consequences, such as. The unlawful and brutal cleaning of the tenement houses recovered by the heirs... [[But keep your voice down.]] ...or other persons who have purchased, often for invaluable, claims of those affected by nationalisation or their heirs. Not only the rule of law, but also the Polish right of state indicate the necessity of absolute observance... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please! The rapporteur has time and please let the Member speak calmly. Member, please. The statute of limitations... Yes, that is what we talked about today at the committee meeting, Madam Member. I have the right to submit a report and the reasons for the committee's decision. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Tell me what happened at the committee meeting. [[But take it easy.]] Take it easy. Not only the rule of law, but also the Polish right of state indicate the necessity of strict compliance with the principle of statute of limitations of all property claims. [[Your marshal, Madame, is screaming and you can't hear anything.]] The legislator is entitled to establish a time limit for seeking annulment of the decision in the scope of the project, as it is the legislator's duty to ensure a stable legal order, especially since the practice of redress after 1989 reveals many pathologies for various reasons - I mean not only house cleaners, but also the investigation of the so-called. ownership of Lemkowski real estate - deepening this state of legal uncertainty and sense of harm and injustice. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was at the heart of the legislative initiative, was reached more than 6 years ago as a result of a constitutional review carried out in connection with a legal question raised by the court in a specific case. Judgment declaring the non-constitutionality of Article. 156 § 2 c.p.a. in so far as it does not exclude the admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in gross violation of the law, where a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken, it constitutes a omission of legislation and, therefore, in the transitional provisions, we adopt such a solution, i.e. a waiver of the law in all cases which have been brought after 30 years of adoption or notification of the decision and which until the date of entry into force of the new wording of the provisions of the Article. 156 were not completed by final decision or decision. This justification was based on the fact that the committee recommended that all four amendments be rejected and that the draft from print No 1210 be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u444	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1210. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. I would like to inform you that Amendment 1 has been withdrawn by the applicants. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 121 - for, 278 - against, 31 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 of the Law amending the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 73 - for, 238 - against, 118 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. The 4th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 130 for, 289 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1210, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 309 - for, no one was against, stopped 120. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1291-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, print Nos 1222 and 1291-A. Today, the Commission has examined the amendment which was tabled at second reading by the Law and Justice Club and recommends that the amendment be adopted and voted in favour of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u446	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1291. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose the addition of Article. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 253 - for, 157 - against, abstained 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1291, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 416 - for, no one was against, there was a hold-up of 9. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the power market law and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1307. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1307 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 397 - for, no one was against, 34 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Power Market Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law on alien species. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1253-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u447	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft Foreign Species Act, 31 amendments were submitted to this draft. One of these amendments was withdrawn during the work of the committee. The Commission has, of course, examined these amendments in detail and recommends that the High House reject the amendments: 2nd and 23rd, on which we will vote together, Nine, twelve, 22, 24, 26, and 29. The Commission also recommends adopting amendments: 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th, 13th and 16th, on which we will vote together, 14th and 15th, on which we will vote together, and 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 25th, 27th, 28th and 30th. Of course, the committee recommends adopting a draft law on alien species, which is contained in the committee's report in print No 1253. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u448	Thank you very much, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1253. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 applicants propose that the IGO register for the information referred to in that provision be publicly accessible by listing it on the subject-matter page of the Directorate-General for Environment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 425 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 3 applicants propose e.g. Delete paragraph 2. Amendment 23 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Those in favour of Amendments 2 and 23 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 164 - for, 261 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 309 - for, 113 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 420 - for, no one was against, held back 6. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 309 - for, 115 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 418 - for, no one was against, 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 17 (2) applicants propose the new wording of point (a) of the first subparagraph. b and c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 304 - for, 118 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 and 12 applicants propose, among others. an indication of the person signing the control protocol in the case referred to in paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 427 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose e.g. delete paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 191 - for, 226 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 14 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 13. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 306 - for, 114 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 21 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 385 - for, no one was against, 41 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 21 applicants propose to add paragraph. 16 and 17. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Those in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 166 - for, 254 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 23 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 2. Amendment 16 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Those in favour of Amendments 13 and 16 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 421 - for, against was no one, abstained 9. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 (1) applicants shall propose a change of order. Amendment 15 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 14 and 15? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 430 for, no one was against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. 32 applicants shall propose the introduction of an information obligation for the Director-General of the Environment in the event of the expiry of the authorisation to derogate from the prohibitions referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 420 - for, no one was against, held back 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to extend the list of conditions to be taken into account when the penalty is imposed. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 18th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to modify the reference to Article 1 (6). 14. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 19th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 422 was for, 1 against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 36 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 20th amendment? I'm faster than that machine again. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll do the championship. 430 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicant shall propose that paragraph be amended. Article 4 3c Inland Fisheries Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 21st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 385 - for, 44 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Laws - Hunting law applicants propose among others. add point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 170 - for, 262 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (9) of the Animal Protection Act of the applicant proposes to delete point (a). c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 24th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 167 - for, 264 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5b to Article 5b 6 laws on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 25th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 426 was for, 1 against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment, the applicants propose to add lit. e to Article. 5 point 1e of the Nature Conservation Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 26th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 166 - for, 264 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 77 Nature Conservation Act applicants propose to amend the added paragraph. 14. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 428 - for, 2 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment, the applicant shall propose a modification of the reference in paragraph. 37a in Part III of the Annex to the Tax Tax Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 28th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 298 - for, 10 - against, stopped 120. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 49. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 30th amendment futile. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 29th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 18 - for, 412 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment to the article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 applicants propose that the resolution referred to in that provision be an act of local law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 421 - for, 9 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1253, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 418 - for, 10 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law on alien species. We would like to return to the discussion of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on special arrangements for the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1294-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mark Happy to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u449	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022, prints 1278 and 1294. Two amendments to this draft were tabled at today's session of the Sejm. The Sejm has tabled amendments to the committee. After today's meeting, the Commission recommends rejecting Amendments 1 and 2 in the joint vote and adopting the draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u450	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1294. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 21 draft law. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 179 - for, 230 - against, abstained 21. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1294, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For - 411, 8 - against, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a law on special solutions related to the organisation of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022. We would like to return to the discussion of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. An amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft resolution. The Sejm has decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee and to join the third reading after the text of the amendment has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. The amendment was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for print no. 1215. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1215. In the amendment to the Annex, the applicant shall propose an amendment to point 22. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 419 - for, no one was against, no one stopped 9. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print no. 1215, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 314 - for, no one was against, with 115 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We would like to return to the discussion of item 36 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution commemorating the 100th anniversary of the International Poznań Fair. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1308. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1308, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I know. I'm saying I'm faster than a machine. She's still thinking. [[It's overheated.]] It's stuck. [[Voice from the room: Advertisement.]] [[Voice from the room: Back to the remote.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Maybe engineer Suski can fix it.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We did it. We've already voted on this, haven't we? [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, please slow down.]] Okay, once again, ladies and gentlemen. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1308, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 426 - for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of 100. Anniversary of the International Poznań Fair. We would like to return to the discussion of item 37 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 45th anniversary of Radom's June 1976. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1333. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the celebration of the 45th anniversary of Radom's June 1976 in print No 1333, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 426 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 45th anniversary of Radom's June 1976. [[The assembled rise, long-lasting applause.]] Thank you. We return to the review of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1228 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 144 - for, against - 285, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. [[Applause]] That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min 47 hours 20 min 57]] Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020 (Print No 1140) together with the position of the Commission on Justice and Human Rights (Print No 1209). I would like to ask the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National Mr Jarosław Szark to present information. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. I'll see how much time you have. [[Five minutes. Same as Bodnar.]] 15 minutes, Mr. President, at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Present the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance in 2020 within 15 minutes this is a very dwarf task... [[The Ombudsman had five minutes.]] But the Institute of National Remembrance is a much bigger institution. [[That's not true.]] That's 11 branches of IPN all over the country, six delegations. Only last year, ladies and gentlemen, are the thousands of projects we have undertaken. The Institute of National Remembrance never wanted to explore and popularize history alone, but in cooperation with other institutions. Last year these institutions were in the country approx. 520, and in all Poland - 90. The Institute of National Remembrance is not only a scientific, archival, educational activity, but it is a commemoration, a search for the graves of our heroes, it is a illustrative activity, it is the Main Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way to mention everything in 15 minutes, so I will discuss the most important issues of last year. 2020 is the year of two important anniversaries in our history. Anniversary in which Poland's history is at the heart of European and world history. This is also an illustration of our presence in the 20th century. The year 1920 - stopping Bolshevism, and 60 years later the rise of the Solidarity, the beginning of the repulsion of the communist system from Poland and from this part of Europe. As in previous years, we wanted to conduct our activities in agreement, in cooperation with many institutions, outside associations. And that's what we did. The year 1920 is not only a great battlefield, but it is a huge commitment of a large part of the conscious nation, which within a few weeks of July and August 1920, when he realized the threat, made a huge effort to create an internal front, mobilization for the voluntary army, mobilization of sanitary services, communications. This effort - a social effort, not a military effort - allowed us to show in the local perspective in 1920. In dozens of places throughout Poland, we unveiled plaques that commemorated volunteers of a well-known area who responded to the appeal of the Council of State Defence, joining the army, offering sacrifices. This allowed us to celebrate the year 1920 with social commitment as much as possible at that time in connection with numerous sanitary restrictions. Similarly, 1980 - it is not only those people who are already on the pages of history, on the pages of textbooks, but it is also the involvement of tens, hundreds of thousands of people who have already launched a strike on 1 July 1980. It is also a commemoration of these people in local communities, in county cities, in the first ones that took a strike in the summer of 1980. It was also an exhibition of "Solidarity" born here, the largest exhibition project of the Institute of National Remembrance in history, showing us local heroes and simultaneously allowing us to create in local environments this tissue of social identity around history, around the 1980s. - the years the witnesses, the participants, the heroes of these events are still alive. These are, of course, also numerous publications, numerous exhibitions, multimedia materials. Unfortunately, most of these events were intimate. At the end of August last year, all 58 local exhibitions were shown in the square of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, adding one symbolic element - photographs of John Paul II from this place, dated 2 June 1979. Solidarity time is also a commitment of memory. Memory of all those who participated in the events of the 1980s, changing the course of history. It is the largest and only scientific project in Poland of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is the "Encyclopedia of Solidarity." The third and fourth volumes appeared in previous years, after a 7-year break, another is in preparation. Thanks to this undertaking thousands of people, often nameless heroes, have found their place in history. The year 1920 is not only the effort of Poles, but also cooperation with other nations. It is French aid, it is Hungarian aid, and also - what is important - Poland's help by our eastern neighbours, it is cooperation with Semen Petlura and publications on this subject, but it is also the recognition of free Belarusians, free Russians who, alongside Poland, wanted to oppose the Bolshevik system. It is also this international dimension, 1920. These struggles weren't just a classic war, but they were a civilization war, a world war. And under this slogan we organized an international exhibition, a large international scientific conference and a large media campaign, among others. with representatives of the environment, Mon. We tell Poland to the world. The articles were published in dozens of journals and periodicals appearing in dozens of countries around the world. This road to freedom last year, the second one we mentioned, is also December 1970, is the bloody appearances of the world of work in Gdańsk, Gdynia, Szczecin, Elbląg. Everywhere we organized numerous projects, publications, conferences, exhibitions, social media activities. An important part of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance is time World War II. It is a lot of publications on this subject, a few significant, dedicated, among others. German courtship during World War II, but also another volume commemorating our compatriots who are helping the Jewish people and the first scientific, several hundred-page biography of Henryk Sławicz, a man who is a symbol of this help during World War II. However, we must remember that World War II is not only a pact of Ribbentrop-Molotov, the first two years of the German and Soviet occupation, but later victims of Ukrainian nationalists. The Institute of National Remembrance prepared the first Volynski Crime Victims Base in Poland last year. The first dozens of thousands of victims' names on this website have already been found, soon, in several days' time, we will show what we have done over the past year, complementing this database. The Second World War is also Katyn's crime, the 80th anniversary of this crime, the purpose of which was to deprive Poland of its elites. They are also exhibitions, numerous publications, among others. Volume 3 of the Madden Committee's reports, one of the basic sources of Katyn's crimes, issued by the Institute of National Remembrance. The publishing activity of the Institute of National Remembrance last year is over 300 books published only last year. At this point we are the largest publishing house in Poland publishing books on the history of the 20th century. These are not only scientific monographs, not only dictionary publications, encyclopedias, but they are also an offer for the youngest generation, they are comic books, popular brochures. So far we have spent, among others. approx. 70 brochures of the Independent Heroes illustrating this generation, which fought for the borders of the Republic in 1918 and 1921. But it is also a new publishing series of Literature and Memory prepared by the Institute of National Remembrance. Last year, the first paper on the subject, published so far in Poland, was published in 1920 in Polish literature by Prof. Urbanowski. Ladies and gentlemen! The activities of the Institute of National Remembrance are also archival activities. A few years ago, we started the project "Archiwum" full of memory, thanks to which hundreds - so far around 1800 - of invaluable collections, which often, especially in the West, were found somewhere in the compositions of the paper, were saved, preserved, secured thanks to the Institute of National Remembrance. Unfortunately, another generation of our compatriots outside Poland loses ties with the homeland of their grandparents, fathers, but this legacy after the second great emigration thanks to these initiatives of the Institute of National Remembrance is preserved. Ladies and gentlemen! The Institute of National Remembrance is also a broad international cooperation. Public opinion focuses on what is blocked when it comes to our cooperation with the Ukrainian party, i.e. the impossibility to undertake searches, exhumation in Ukraine, but on the other hand, scientific and archival cooperation is very good. Only by the end of last year we acquired about 700,000 from Ukrainian archives. scans previously unknown in Poland documents concerning the operation of the Polish NKVD from the years 1937 and 1938, which are available to Polish scientists in the Archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, unfortunately, we were only able to carry out a wide range of activities for three months. Internet presence, tens, hundreds of Internet projects. Our portals, social media can't replace direct contact, social impact. At the beginning of last year we managed an extremely important project, namely the Institute of National Remembrance all year round, starting from Warsaw, in many cities of Poland he showed an extraordinary collection, sculptures by Samuel Willenberg, i.e. one of the prisoners rescued from a camp in Treblinka. He left the experiences he witnessed in the camp in the form of sculptures. His will was to get these sculptures to Poland. Thanks to the Institute of National Remembrance, this is happening. The last thing, this is also the beginning of the year, we managed to save (The Bell) after many years of efforts NKVD headquarters in Warsaw Prague, in which since the beginning of last year there has been an educational center which illustrates what was the reality that the Soviet army brought here after 1945. Last year is also, ladies and gentlemen, a number of projects...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u452	We thank the President for his report. Mr. President, thank you very much. We ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. Thank you, Mr. President. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on Information on the Activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020, print No 1140. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 4 May 2021 for consideration. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the above mentioned Information at the meeting on 27 May 2021 and the discussion under discussion is requested by the High Sejm to accept printing information No 1140. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u454	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mr Krzysztof July from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to present our position on the information presented by your President on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance in 2020. First of all, I wanted to pay my respects and gratitude to all the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, who are in a difficult situation, although they operate in free Poland, because they have to face various, very often heartless attacks against this state institution, which is guarding national memory. And this is done primarily by representatives of important political forces, because today they are the opposition, but in this matter actually on this stage, the parliamentary stage, there should be one great agreement in the context of support for precisely such an institution, which not only protects the national memory, but, above all, cherishes this memory, and, moreover, carries out activities that are actually based on the fact that white spots in history are being discovered, very often so far the functioning knowledge about our past is lied down by the Institute of National Remembrance. And that's important, thank you very much for that. The Institute of National Remembrance is active in many fields of activity. First of all, research, archival work, educational work, which is extremely important in the context of shaping attitudes of the young generation. After all, we realize that we will never build the future of our nation when we forget the past. And this gap in public activity is filled by the Institute of National Remembrance. It is a rich publishing activity of various positions, each of which certainly bears the marks of a scientific position, because it is supported by research, supported by source work, which is extremely important. I am personally content with the Solidarity Encyclopedia, because I also became a hero of the Solidarity Encyclopedia when my biography was posted there. And for that, thank you very, very much. 2020 is a special year, the year in which we commemorated the very important historical events of our history. And here the Institute of National Remembrance actually stood at the level of the task. These are especially events that were wanted to forget in the dark times of the Polish People's Republic, which were erased from our national memory. However, in many Polish families the memory of these events survived. Today, the Institute of National Remembrance has brought these important events to the surface of our history. It is about the mentioned history of the Polish-Bolshevik war in 1920, and finally about the history of Katyn crime, which we celebrated last year's 80th anniversary, and about the 40th anniversary of the establishment of "Solidarity." I would like to say once again that what the Institute of National Remembrance does deserves both great praise and support from the Polish Parliament. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to declare that this information, which you have presented to us by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, we are taking note of. We acknowledge it with greatness, so to speak, applause and respect for the hard work of the people of the Institute of National Remembrance who care about our national memory, our national identity. It is extremely important that we can forge our future, remembering our national heroes, those people, through whom the Republic has regained freedom and independence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u456	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczebra, Szczeba - sorry, Michał - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u457	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President! On July 22, your five-year term ends happily. I will not only talk about last year on this occasion, but I will also talk about your entire term of office, because I hope to see you for the last time. [[Game in the O.R.]] When the PiS roller finally loses its power, among the many dilemmas facing the future pro-democratic government there will also be this: what to do with a few institutions that have been so deeply degenerate in the last 5 years that it is hard to believe today that they can be repaired in their present form. The first institution, Mr. President, will be TVP Info. It's gonna be wiped out. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] And the second institution will be the IPN, whose future is still difficult to determine. On the other hand, there are various suggestions that other institutions with scientific and social authority should be able to replace them to some extent. When we take a balance after these over 2 decades of IPN activity, we see positive educational activities, investigations by the institute, which have helped to determine beyond any doubt the criminal nature of the activities of certain organizations and figures. Many valuable researchers came through the institute, who did a great job, expanding our knowledge of Polish history. This was especially for the CEOs of Professor Leon Kieres, when there were people around the institute such as Andrzej Friszke, Andrzej Paczkowski, Antoni Dudek. But the last five years, High Izbo, it's a slippery slope. From disaster to disaster - this is what the IPN has been like in the last 5 years. It began with a hearing of Dr. Shark's candidacy in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, who in response to the questions began to question the findings of the investigation of the Chief Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals on the crime in Jedwabne. You remember my questions, don't you? [[Voice from the room: Yes, I'm sure.]] Later you allowed Patrick's Boy Scout, which in the context of the revision of the IPN Act. Later... Or maybe I'll put it another way. Your term of office ends with the appointment of a nationalist neofascist to be the director of the Wrocław branch. It is about the participant and co-organizer of the anti-Semitic assembly, the pre-war assembly, on the anniversary of the Jewish pogrom in Myślenice. Even the College of IPN has cut you off from this nomination. There was one person, today absent in this room, Mr. Marshal Terlecki, who said: I see no obstacle to this function. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... You've distinguished yourself from the cosmic lack of judgment of this situation, and that was also image damage to the institute you're running. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to other issues, to the great desolation to which all these circumstances have led, these situations mentioned by me in Polish-Jewish, Polish-Israeli relations. These are very important relationships that people like Lech Wałęsa, Aleksander Kwasniewski, Minister Bartoszewski, President Lech Kaczyński co-created. By their actions they built reconciliation and trust among the nations. You thought you could get promoted for high schooling. I would also like to draw attention to what you have been doing, what the Institute has been doing in connection with the decounization bill. On the letters of IPN recommended to local governments there appeared names of streets, which had to be deleted, similarly monuments and patrons. Among these people Stanisław Tołwiński appeared to be deleted. I will remind the High House who Stanisław Tołwiński was. First of all, before the war he was the creator of the Warsaw Housing Cooperative. Who was he later during the occupation? The righteous among the nations of the world, he saved Warsaw's Jews. Who was he after the war? President of Warsaw, rebuilt our capital with the Office for Reconstruction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You wanted to cross this person off the list of patrons of Warsaw streets. I'd like to ask you one last question, Mr. Marshal. We have so-called today. Dwórczyk's case, Dwórczyk's e-mails, but I'm getting information that there may also be an issue with Grey's e-mails. I'd like you to come to the High House, to this pulpit, and answer me one brief question. As president of the IPN, did you use a private e-mail on business matters? In particular, whether through private... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...the email you contacted with the directors of the Mirror Office, topics very sensitive, the main crime investigation committee against the Polish National Archives of IPN? I'd like you to answer that question in detail today, because it's worth it for you to answer that question before we read it in the paper tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Fortunately, your term as president of the Institute of National Remembrance is coming to an end. This term will be written in very black letters, because you as an official did not have a problem with the fact that the former ONR activist was at the head of the IPN branch in Wrocław. In December 2019 Dr. Wojciech Muszyński from the Olsztyn IPN fantasized about dropping the Left Members from helicopters. What did you say in response, Mr. President, about those shameful words? In a curial way, you explained that the historian did it in his spare time and that it was not an official position. However, this is an IPN employee's position, and you are also responsible for it. To refer to such practices, you will agree that totalitarian... Such a statement from an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance should be met with your clear condemnation. That's not what happened. The Institute of National Remembrance is a very expensive institution. In 2021 its budget amounted to PLN 397 million. In comparison, the budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences is PLN 91 million. The question is, what are these hundreds of millions of dollars spent on? We know from the Justice and Human Rights Committee's meeting that a penny of this money is spent on prosecutors' salaries. According to NIK, the prosecutor made an average of 18,000 in IPN. PLN per month in 2018 and such prosecutors in IPN are currently 130. We also know from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights that these prosecutors don't have much work to do. Representatives of the Institute of National Remembrance admitted it themselves that they are not covered with classes, simply these investigations do not have enough to work for 130 prosecutors earning 18,000. PLN per month. In our opinion, the Institute of National Remembrance should simply be abolished. We were against his calling, against his existence, and we will be against his liquidation. Why are we in favour of eliminating the IPN? Prof. Andrzej Romanowski, former editor-in-chief of the Polish Biographical Vocabulary, former activist of "Solidarity." The Institute of National Remembrance combines under one roof two institutions, a prosecutor's office and a historical institution, while the objectives of both institutions are opposite, are different. The prosecutor is going to judge the perpetrator, and the historian is not from judging, the historian should be going to understand the mechanisms of history, those that caused certain historical events. The D.A.'s not supposed to look for extenuating circumstances, because that's what a lawyer might be wondering, and it's not in the IPN, because there are no lawyers in the IPN, there's only prosecutors there, but there's a court hearing. Historian is not interested in the question of guilt or punishment, but in the analysis of the historical process. That's the way it's supposed to be. The IPN destroyed a lot of lives because 50,000. Uniform officers have lost their pensions, their uniforms. Were they all criminals, my fellow Member? [[Yeah, they were.]] You think it's a collective responsibility, don't you? We know how you approach the situation - it is very light. There's no... [[Voice from the O.R. The security office was an institution...]] Excuse me, and the sophists, the bordermen, the secretaries, the cleaners, the employees and the creators of the PESEL base were criminals according to the state? I see. We will always defend the honor of these people... [[Are you defending the ubeks? Shame!]] ...who didn't do anything wrong and to whom you applied collective responsibility, not the first, because the first was the Civic Platform. We defend people who were illegally taken away from retirement, as I mentioned, were not just employees of the security office. You put everyone in one bag, just as widows and children with disabilities, those people who didn't do anything wrong and were deprived of their means of life. Yeah, it's a shame... [[You're talking about human rights? Are you defending Ubek? Shame!]] ...I agree with you, sir. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course it's a shame that widows or children are deprived of the means to live your decision on collective responsibility, scandalous and unconstitutional. That is why, of course, we will not be positive about the IPN report, because we are simply against the existence of this institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u460	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u461	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position on information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020. Undoubtedly, for the Institute of National Remembrance, as for many institutions, the past year had a particular dimension, not only because of the need to operate in the COVID regime, which prevented the Institute from taking certain actions. First of all, it was a special year due to the important anniversaries which the IPN tried to commemorate and bring closer to Poles in its work. The 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle - it is also a pity that no activity has been undertaken on the part of the Institute of National Remembrance to clear Wincent Witos, the main constructor of this victory, but I think it is still a challenge that stands before the IPN. It is also another anniversary: the 80th anniversary of Katyn's crime, the 50th anniversary of the massacre on the coast, the 40th anniversary of the creation of the Solidarity. These dates are certainly important for our collective memory and our common identity. All IPN employees should be thanked for the effort they made to commemorate these anniversaries. Numerous and important publications, exhumation works and the search for burial sites of victims of totalitarian regimes, the surrender of a columbarium of victims of totalitarian crimes in Białystok, fruitful cooperation with the Ukrainian party on obtaining copies of documents concerning the crimes of the operation of the Polish NKVD from 1937, plaques commemorating the heroes of the war in 1920 and activists of the Mr. President! However, in addition to the praises due for the activities, a few doubts and reservations about the activities of the Institute have to be raised today, as well as evidence of recognition for the Institute's activities. As I said, 2020 is an important year for Poles, the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle. But questions arise: What actions did you and your institute perform on the construction of the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw? In 2017, Antoni Macierewicz announced the construction of this museum. A year later Minister Błaszczak said that the opening of the museum will take place in 2020. As we know, nothing like this happened, and it's not known when the museum will eventually be built. Of course, we should ask: Have you acted in this direction, and how have you supported the idea of building this institution? It should also be asked whether and in what form you are cooperating with the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum and whether you are concerned as president of the Institute that the International Auschwitz Council has not been operating for several years. Nor can this be overlooked and not asked about the question of Mr Thomas Grenuch, an extremely embarrassing issue for the long-standing achievements of the Institute of National Remembrance. It was a call to the head of the Wroclaw IPN branch of a character who was once one of the leaders of ONR. Although Mr. Grenuch's case came about a year later, in a period that was covered by your information, Mr. Grenuch was an employee of the IPN. His achievements could be verified, but none of this happened. Moreover, Mr. Grenuch was appointed head of the IPN in Wroclaw by you personally. Today in this House it would also require - and I would be very grateful - but some reference, explanation, or perhaps a little humility. This brought, as I said, extremely great losses for the image of Poland (Dzinek) abroad, and I will remind you that we are talking about Poland, which is struggling with unfair accusations about cooperation with the Nazis, about participation in the Holocaust. Mr. President! How are we supposed to combat such slandering of Poland, calling on the position of individuals in the IPN who have enlisted in extremely shameful acts? After all, this is a kind of water for the mill for those who want to speak badly about Poland. I think today it would be important to address these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u462	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are to discuss the report, the report on the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, but at first it is impossible not to refer to the absurd ideas that the representative of the Left gave here. Well, honourable Member, you will not eliminate the Institute of National Remembrance for several reasons. First of all, it's an absurd idea. It is an institution that performs various important functions alongside those that you do not like, also archival functions and has huge archives. The only thing you could do if you were able to build a majority is turn the Institute of National Remembrance into a different-named institution and still performing this function. Secondly, you're not going to build a majority for such absurd ideas, and I don't think you're even expecting it. But let's leave these ideas on the side. The Institute of National Remembrance deserves constructive criticism for the work it does. But before criticism, perhaps a word of appreciation and praise first. I would therefore like to thank all the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, who are doing their duties fairly, making their efforts in everyday work to commemorate important for us, Poles, historical events, including those dark cards, crimes that were committed by the communist, leftist, socialist regime during the communist period of the Polish People's Republic, so that we know how this regime worked, what are the real totalitarian urges of the Left and what is the style of thinking and action of left-wing, communist, socialist staff that created this country. They implemented Marxist ideology here, established atheism with dominant ideology and enforced throughout society, throughout the scientific, cultural, media world. I hope it never happens again. I say, looking towards the leaders of the Left who sat here and did not protest when the Member made her absurd claims. Returning to the Institute of National Remembrance: the report notes that due to the need to transfer many educational activities into space On-line events have reached many more audiences than in the existing stationary system. This sentence may be true - we do not know how it was studied - but the increase in coverage does not necessarily translate into an increase in the effectiveness of education. Seeing and appreciating only an increase in the coverage of events can cause many events to remain on-line in spite of the severity of the epidemic. Is that what this is about, Professor? I hope not. I hope that this whole epidemic situation will not be used to transfer IPN's work to the Internet only under the pretext of wider coverage. We need exhibitions, educational activities, live discussion panels. Second thing. In addition to the criticism of moving only to the sphere On-line attention should also be paid to the insufficient, weak degree of digitization of the archive resources of the Institute of National Remembrance. We need wide access to the IPN archives, the possibility of using them not only in the IPN file reading room, but simply over the Internet, and we would like to make the digitization of the entire archive quicker. Next point to criticism. Attention should be paid to the long, sometimes even several months of waiting for answers regarding the archival query of the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. Here's another thing. It is happy that the publishing activity of the Institute of National Remembrance is wide, but one should ask himself: Who reads these books? Some of them are typical scientific works, thematic studies, while in my opinion the popularization work is failing. The second issue is a long time to wait for the publication of books of a scientific nature, even as we hear, several years old. At this rate, gaps in Polish history cannot be completed. The last thing I want to draw attention to is in my view the passiveness of the Institute of National Remembrance in the current historical debate, in particular the one conducted in English. We need to defend the historical truth. The Institute of National Remembrance, as my previous speakers rightly pointed out, has a huge budget, from our perspective, ordinary Polish Members, even unimaginable. He could defend the Polish state, the Polish historical truth against anti-Polish lies, against smearing German responsibility for the Holocaust, against attacks of certain circles. He could defend her in English. E.g. The holocaust calendar (The Bell) is placed on the Yad Vashem Institute website in English. I wish that we Poles too could tell about our history, about simple facts in English and that the Institute of National Remembrance should take responsibility for this, not for a year to choke out a statement or statement from which it will be clear that what it preaches e.g. Professor Grabowski, they're just lies. So that courage, Professor, courage, all the employees of the IPN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u464	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. President! Several hundred pages of information, and none of the most important. You can hear thunder, and when you read this thick tome, it's the thunder of outrage. Lack of most important information: Why was Tomasz Grenuch an employee and even head of the IPN branch, and why was he not dismissed from this position for so long and ultimately deprived of his job at IPN? A person associated with ONR and known for performing Nazi gestures should never be appointed as a manager. When, thanks to journalists, especially the Gazeta Wyborcza, embarrassing information came out, you, Mr President, did not react properly, and it had to be done at Bolt's pace, instantly. The head of the IPN, which means you, tried to whitewash Thomas Grenuch, calling him a great organizer. It's just the pressure of many institutions and the strong words of many people... It was the Gazeta Wyborcza that informed that scientists from the University of Wrocław sent a letter to the management of the IPN and you did not react to this letter. And in this letter there is this sentence: We do not imagine that the person who defended in his statements the Nazi gesture would represent the IPN, e.g. during the ceremony in the former concentration camp. Many places in this volume of information have been devoted to educational activities. Decent notes are e.g. walks in the Warsaw ghetto. It's an extraordinary lesson in history. These lessons allow us to consolidate knowledge about Poles saving lives. However, when I look at a thick volume of information, I wonder if the emphasis in educational activity is too much on military and clérical history. It goes on, among other things. computer games, concerts, art. I'm going to repeat the words I've said in this room before: You don't need an IPN for that. Let the games be made up of specialists, concerts be organized by professionals, plays be exhibited by independent, independent and non-working creators. Does the IPN budget need to be so high and expanded every year? When we read this book of information, we should be sad, all Members, because, according to the information, the ombudsman's budget is ten times smaller than the IPN budget. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will not approve of your information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u466	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. The question was asked by 17 people. Would any of you like to come in again? There are 18 people. I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I ask Mr. Michael Szczerba of the Civic Coalition to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u467	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President! I would like to ask you about the following situation, which, I think, surprised not only me, but also those sitting in this room. On 28 May the Sejm decided to elect Dr. Karol Nawrocki as President of the IPN. I understand this candidacy is waiting for the Senate to accept it. How come four days after Dr. Karol Nawrocki was elected president, you called Dr. Karol Nawrocki as deputy president? Where are you in such a hurry, Mr. President? After all, this candidacy should be approved by the Senate. I have a question: were there any political environments, figures of Polish politics that pressured you to call Mr. Nawrocki (Dzinek) for this function? Isn't this about the scenario you're preparing, so-called. Plan B, which assumes that if this candidacy is not accepted by the Senate, you will simply give up this symbolic July 22nd and Mr. Nawrocki will be performing his duties? [[Applause]] Was there any pressure on you about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u468	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Having read the information of the Institute of National Remembrance, I felt that there was chaos in this institution. In my opinion, the report was prepared recklessly, even forcefully, because it is simply a statutory requirement. There is little activity of the Institute when it comes to cooperation with foreign organizations, especially from countries whose archival resources could contribute to a more accurate study of the history of Poland. There was also no reference to the breakdown of personnel IPN. The Wrocław case has been silenced. On page 460 it was pointed out that employees with high professional qualifications and high personal competence are employed to carry out the tasks of the IPN. As you can see from the example of Wrocław, with these qualities it is possible to become a high-ranking employee of the IPN. Please refer to my comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Social activist Maria Zajączkowska in a letter published in one of the Bydgoszcz newspapers writes about desecration, mess and negligence in the cemetery of heroes of Bydgoszcz. This war cemetery has more than 1 000. inhabitants of Bydgoszcz murdered during the Nazi occupation in concentration camps, in the city, in the Fordon Valley of Death and in the Podbydgo forests. Among them are councilmen, local teachers, priests, scouts and heroic city defenders from the Bydgoszcz National Defence battalion. I have a question for the president. Did the IPN deal with the state of this cemetery? What action is he going to take? I kindly ask the President to respond in writing on this matter. Homeland is land and graves. The nations, losing their memories, are losing their lives. A nation that loses its memory ceases to be a nation only becomes a collection of people temporarily occupying a given territory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u472	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. You're welcome, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Henryk Sławik - socialist, PPS-city, editor of the Labourer, Righteous among the Nations. You were talking about him. To honor him, you don't need an IPN. We remember him perfectly. It is firmly in memory of the inhabitants of the Śląskie Voivodship. The Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodeship, which I had the honour of being a councilman, established 2014 as the Year of Henryk Sławik. That's not how you're gonna remember that in 2020 you published a book about our hero. 2020 is the year of subsequent changes in street names, schools, is the time of destruction of monuments and employment of nationalists in IPN. From this you will be remembered in Poland and in your family Czechowice-Dziedzice, in which I was elected as a Member. Contrary to the mayor's will, the residents and the councilmen, you led there to destroy (the bell) the monument of the Brotherhood of Arms. There was a Polish soldier on every corner of this monument. The IPN costs nearly PLN 0.5 billion a year, Mr. President. So far you have not been able to organize a memorial plaque commemorating Polish heroes who fought with fascists in August 1939 at the railway station in Mostach near Jabłonkowo. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u474	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The IPN as an institution is famous for the liquidation of monuments. I would very much ask the President to tell you how many monuments under the decision of the IPN were liquidated in 2020 and who covered the costs of their liquidation. Did the IPN spend even a zloty on liquidation, or were the costs transferred as always to local governments and private individuals? If you do not have such information today, I ask for written information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few months ago, Mr. Tomasz Grenuch, director of the IPN branch, was an active activist of the National and Radical Camp, and on the Internet you can find pictures of how he makes a gesture of Nazi greeting. The President of the IPN claimed that Grenuch did not accept his actions and considered him a mistake. So he was high, but he wasn't happy? How could a guy like that work at an IPN? When the media leaked the case, why didn't the president react correctly, why did you defend him? Will additional points be awarded in recruitment for directors' positions in IPN and other state institutions for hijacking? This is all a joke, this is some kind of joke. We need modern historical education, positive patriotism and building a community based on respect for another human being. Your brown dreams about power (the bell) are dangerous and stupid, and their place is in the dumpster of history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u479	High Izbo! I hope to see Mr. Grey for the last time today. Before Mr. Sharek leaves in disgrace, I would like an answer to a very simple question from him: How could you pay tribute to the criminals and murderers of children, Mr. Sharek? On 7 May last year in Tarnavec you celebrated Józef Zadzierskei, a pseudonym called Wołyniak. I remind you that Wołyniak is responsible for the prohibition in Piskorowice, his troops murdered over a hundred Ukrainian civilians there, including women and children. These are your I.P.N. data, and you worshipped him. You honored the criminal and child murderer. I wanted to ask you if, as president of the IPN, it is a patriotic act that deserves to be praised and whether it is your modern patriotism. Because you might think so, since the IPN still participates in the grim cult of Romuald Rajs.Burego, the same Burego (The Bell) who is responsible for the crimes in Zaleshan. I heard from the IPN staff that Bure's troops were fighting against the enemies of his homeland, so maybe it's worth recalling in this room some of those enemies of his homeland that Bury murdered: Kostka Leończuk, who was 3 years old at the time of his death, Sergius Leończuk, who was one year old at the time of his death, Hope Leończuk, who was 2 weeks old at the time of her death, Alex Niczyporuk killed at the age of 3, Anna Niczyporuk, killed at the age of 2. These are your heroes you take to the pedestal, and this is a disgrace, Mr. Sharek. [[Applause]] That's all I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u480	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Maciej Necessary, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to appreciate an institution whose representatives fantasize about throwing you off a helicopter. This is what politicians of the Party together Wojciech Muszyński, an employee of the research paper of the IPN. You'd think our criticism of the IPN was based on personal dislike for people who want to throw us off helicopters. And it might be, if such fascist tendencies of the IPN employees were an incident, but unfortunately they are a plague. In the IPN, warm jobs were found: Mariusz Bechta, who produced fascist music and books, Tomasz Panfil, who famously claimed that the Jews were not badly occupied, Paweł Warot, who wanted to see Poland out of the mess, and this mess was fighting for their rights Polish women. So many words have already been said about Thomas Greniech that it is not worth mentioning. In this context, the enthusiasm of Mr Bosak is not surprising, because there are few good jobs in this country where you can get paid with impunity. At the same time, the last historians who want to conduct reliable research are thrown out of the IPN (The Bell). This was the fate of Professor Adam Puławski and Dr Mariusz Sawa. The IPN continues its efforts to lie to history, whitewash criminals such as Rajs Bury and glorify Nazi collaborators from the Świętokrzyski Brigade, which with the rest of you, Mr President, did personally. The IPN is today a grotesque caricature of a scientific institution which, instead of having a debate about our past, also difficult, destroys this debate. She's a factory of lies and filthy total propaganda. Does anyone really believe that this institution can be saved? But in order for this not only to be bad, I would like to thank the IPN, and I would like to thank Minister Czarnko for his actions in behalf of young people. Do this for a few more years, and the Left won't be 30%, but 80%. support among young people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: And communism will return]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u482	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! Dear President, Maybe it's not a criticism at first, part of a disgraceful statement. You're destroying the past. I think the Poles will never forget this and you will never come to power. Whatever you want. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] And now, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to use my time, at least 1.5 minutes, and thank the Institute of National Remembrance - the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals for their actions in my city in Chojnice. There's a death valley in the Chojnice, a place of execution of about 1.5 thousand. Poles who were brutally shot by the Germans already at the beginning of the war in the autumn of 1939. At that time about 300 representatives of Chojnice intelligence, social activists, teenagers from middle school and more than 200 residents from the (Dawn) mental institution were murdered. Subsequent executions took place in the winter of 1945, shortly after the Soviets entered Chojnice. At that time, about 1,000 remains were murdered and burned. persons, among others: Underground soldiers who were driven from Bydgoszcz. Since last year, archaeological works in the Valley of Death have been conducted by Dr. David Kobiłka, a Chojniczanin, who restores the memory of these terrible times. The work in the Chojnice Valley of Death is carried out under the supervision of prosecutor Tomasz Jankowski, the head of the Crime Investigation Commission against the Polish Nationals. Thank you very much for your work, for your work to restore the dignity of the murdered, buried in collective graves of Poles. The memory of these terrible times is very important. We owe it to all those nameless heroes whose remains are found years later, worthy of burial and giving the possibility to families of prayer on their graves. Your activities and works are very important from the point of view of the Polish State. You can't forget your citizens murdered by Germans and Soviets. Finally, I would like to thank my director, Wojtkowo Rolbiecki, who has been working with the Gdańsk IPN since 2015. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u484	Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! A strong country is a country claiming the truth. [[Yeah, that's right.]] And I'm not surprised the Left wants to take out the IPN because he wants to take out the truth, because [[Applause]] The left is from this environment, which still has much on its conscience. And quite recently, because a few dozen years ago. Some of the Left even pride themselves on being Communists. Ladies and gentlemen! Hence the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, because it fits into a strong state, i.e. one which leads citizens to freedom, but also to justice. This is a country that can account for the past, restore truth and justice to those who died. Therefore, I would like to ask the President, the whole IPN, but also our entire Polish country, to put more work and effort into explaining matters related to the death of Fr. Blaclinicki (Dzwonek), Fr. Stanisława Suchowolca, Fr. Stefan Sunday, Fr. He's dead or Fr. Błaszczak or the Katyn crime case, where no crime scenes and identification data were found over 7,000. citizens murdered by the NKVD. Let the Left not pursue the pursuit of some high-ranking youngsters, but the settlement of its own environment and its own past, for in truth we can build a strong state. Not in a lie. [[You just know that crime starts with these high-ranking youngsters, don't you?]] [[If this isn't a freak, you're right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u486	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Kowalski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance for their great work. The Institute of National Remembrance is in my opinion the most important institution of 30-year-old free Poland, an institution that restores national memory. Its great and wonderful symbol is among others. Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk, a man who restored the dignity of scientific research, restored faith in the fact that information and history of communist crimes will be revealed, among others. Just like in Opole, in the Field of Death, where soldiers of the National Armed Forces were murdered. It is the activities of the IPN that have shown that the truth can be reached. And I am very concerned that today and the post-communist Left, and the Civic Platform, and Simon Hołownia attack this very important institution for the Polish country. If you're not hypocrites... That's what I'm saying to Mr. Michael Honestly. You are looking for anti-Semites, and first, throw the Member out of her own ranks (The bell) Sledzińska-Katarasinska, who participated in a dirty anti-Jewish campaign in 1968. [[Applause]] If you're not... If you're fighting for human rights, who is it? You're defending? You're defending the ubeks, the esbeks, the people with whom the IPN fights and restores dignity. These are human rights. You carry the LGBT flags, here I am speaking to you, and you want to liquidate an institution that reveals information about the actions of Jacint in the 1980s prosecuting people, [[Applause]] who had homosexual tendencies. Is that what you want? You want to blur the truth. It's just unworthy. [[Janusz, what's...?]] And you're defending the ubeks and the esbeks. How much do you have? Here. Thirty-40 years. Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed? [[Aren't you ashamed to stand...?]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u488	Mr... [[Oh, the comment will be, quietly.]] I don't really know what homosexuals are. People, sir, are people. Everyone has a right to be themselves. [[Voice from the room:...homosexuals.]] [[Voice from the hall: Poland is for everyone.]] Mr Grzegorz Gaża, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! In 500 cinemas in the United States, a film was shown showing the family that saved Jews from death in the Polish Warsaw Zoo. Which surprised me. the most of this relationship after the Americans came out of those cinemas? The fact that they were surprised that Poles were saving Jews. They mostly thought it was Poles who killed Jews. That's why congratulations to [[Applause]] The Institute of National Remembrance. [[Hollywood made this movie.]] [[Voice from the hall: But for what, that Americans thought that Poles only killed Jews?]] Poland is divided into two stories. The one before the IPN, where history was falsified so that even here Members believe that story. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I wish once again 100 years for this institution to continue to function. [[Applause]] [[The movie was called Azil, and it was made by Hollywood.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u490	Good. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u491	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. President! High Izbo! Regarding cooperation between the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we can say of moderate optimism, because in the case of counterfeiting of history on an example similar to the return of the Polish death camp in response to my interpellation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs writes that Polish foreign institutions intervened in 2020 in a total of 99 cases in 29 countries, while in 2019 there were 136 interventions in 27 countries. As regards the comparison of 2019 data with the previous reporting period, data from institutions indicate a decrease in the number of cases requiring intervention by 38%. In response to this interpellation, the minister writes that we can be moderate optimists, so talking about the fact that the Institute of National Remembrance, which has cooperated in these interventions with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is unnecessary, that it must be eliminated, is a big mistake. I have called you these numbers because it is not art that is populous to say that the institute should be abolished. These figures show that the institute actually works, that this cooperation allows to build a true historical narrative, the Polish historical narrative on the international stage. Thank you for that. I would like to ask what this cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will look like in the future when it comes to the next defamation of history. What has this cooperation been like so far? Will cooperation with the Ministry on this situation and on future developments develop? What is the basis for increasing these percentages when it comes to deceiving history? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u492	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u493	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President! I have one question for you. Is Mr. Tomasz Grenuch, the high-ranking ONR, still working at this institution at the IPN? I'm asking you to answer in writing because there are voices that he's still working at the IPN as a scientist. It also leads me to comment that it is a great regret that the IPN, an institution that usurps the right to be a scientific institution, spends huge money on building a historical policy based largely on manipulation, breaking our history and harming the contemporary vision of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm really joining those voices that say it's a good thing you're leaving. The question is who will take your position. I hope it's a different format. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Because you studied Stalin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u494	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u495	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The Institute of National Remembrance under the rule of the PiS simply changes into an institute for promoting nationalists. The affair with the appointment of the head of the Wroclaw IPN division of Mr. Tomasz Grenuch, a man who was once one of the leaders of ONR, is an incredible scandal. But let us not be convinced that Grenuch in such an exposed position is a coincidence. It's not a coincidence. It is a rotten fruit of a piss flirt with extreme nationalists, which has lasted for years. You're the one who called Grenuch. That is why I am asking you today: Are you aware that the call to head of the Wroclaw IPN branch of a man who once saw nothing wrong with getting high was like spit in the face of all the soldiers of the Home Army who were killed by high-ranking criminals? It was a display of contempt for the suffering of all the victims of the Holocaust who died at the hands of high-ranking criminals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can't even imagine what family members of all those who lost their lives murdered by those who were high in World War II must feel. What they must feel when they hear that Grenuch was hired and then served as head of the IPN branch. You're the one who's responsible. The Grenuch affair lasted only a few days, but its devastating effects for Poland will have to be repaired for many years. Polish historical policy created by the PiS and its people is what has once again led to the embarrassment of our country in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! If there are persons in this Chamber who are so sorry for the employees of the Security Office and other security staff that they will have nothing to live for, let them throw themselves out of their Members' salaries on these persons. Because it is immoral for victims or their children to pay for the high pensions of those who were oppressors and executioners, especially since these victims often die in poverty, while their oppressors were buried in Powązki with honors. [[Bravo!]] In the Polish People's Republic there were many hits by a security camera. They were beaten with their fists, their rods, they were kicked. There were those who had their fingernails pulled off the chair on their feet. Family communists killed about 50,000 people. Poles. If there were no communism, PZPR, UB, German occupation and Soviet occupation in Poland, the Institute of National Remembrance would not be needed. [[He would be.]] Why are some against the existence of an IPN today? Because IPN is investigating crimes against Poles, crimes committed by Communists and their criminal services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. President! How long will communist criminals be commemorated in Polish cities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u498	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u499	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you how this could have happened in an institution where we can read the Holocaust website. Memory isn't enough. The Holocaust is of special importance to us Poles as well. Most of it took place on Polish lands and concerned Polish citizens. As a result of the criminal plan, which was born in Germany by Adolf Hitler's party and was implemented by this country, 6 million Jews from all over Europe were murdered. About 3 million of them are Polish citizens, 2 million are children... How could it happen that in this institution, Tomasz Grenuch - a former ONR activist, a man we can see in pictures of a high-ranking person, became a director of the Wrocław branch of IPN? I heard we were going to end up with a policy of shame in PiS. Instead, we were ashamed of the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u500	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! From a research, educational institution that's worked pretty well over the years, you've made a propaganda institution. You have a lot of credit when it comes to making this propaganda institution, and a lot of omissions. One of these omissions was that you, that the Institute of National Remembrance, kept silent when the politicians of Solidarna Polska with Patrick, headed by Patryk, prepared an outrageous bill on IPN, which resulted in the fact that the slogan of the Polish death camp appeared most times in the history of search on the Internet. That bill, prepared by Partyki Jakiego and politicians of Solidarna Polska, has firmly established this wrong stereotype, and you were silent then. Mr. President! The truth is not in the middle, the truth is not where the rulers want it. Historical truth isn't exactly what a nation fits in with. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The truth lies where it lies. There's always one truth. And that's what the IPN's job is about. But I still have a specific question for you. In the last 5 years, many Ukrainian necropolises have been devastated in Podkarpacie and in Lublin, it is about Polish citizens. What did the IPN do about it? Did he react in any way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u503	Mr. President! I joined the list at the end when I heard what the PIS Members said. I'd like to ask you... Actually, it's a rhetorical question. The IPN was created to stand in the truth to tell the truth about Poles. And very well, such an institution is needed. But now let's go back to World War II. Germany - and each of us will agree - fascists wanted to murder the entire Jewish nation. They killed 6 million Jews, Polish citizens, citizens of all Europe, children, old people, all of them. Six million. Now what? And now it turns out that Germany has a very good relationship with Israel. Why? Because they could take it on their chests. [[Voice from the hall: Propaganda is paid worldwide. What are you saying?]] The Germans could say: yes, we did it, we were wicked, we were fascists, we were Nazis. We're taking it to the chest. What are we doing? We say, wait, we only have heroes, no one else. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] A man who cannot speak of his weaknesses, his crimes, is a cowardly man. If you continue to run this institution, no one will want to talk to the Poles. They're already looking at us as a black animal in Israel. And why us? Because you cannot take this on your chest and say: yes, Poles were not always heroes. The Poles were also criminals. [[When?]] [[When?]] I can say that. You can't say that. [[The Lord speaks in his name, not in the name of the nation.]] And to those who do not talk about it, I will say: look, here is the wisdom of the Polish people, as in the proverb: Stupid do not sow, they are born themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u504	And in this way, ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. I invite the President of the IPN of Mr Jarosław Shark to the podium. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think I will start by answering one question that was repeated very often, and it concerned Dr. Tomasz Grenuch as the director of the Wrocław branch of the Institute of National Remembrance. I have spoken on this subject many times. I take sole responsibility for this decision. Mr. Dr. Grenuch is not the director of the Department of the Institute of National Remembrance in Wrocław. He's not an employee of the National Remembrance Institute. Let me just add that today we are talking about the 2020 report. It was an event from the beginning of 2021 and was supposed to spoil the image of Poland in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, this poor Poland, if one decision is to destroy our image all over the world. A few days ago, I attended the ceremony of giving the descendants of one of the victims of the German concentration camp of Mr Franciszek Czaplicki watch. This watch is one of the thousands of souvenirs left by prisoners of German concentration camps. This ceremony was only possible because the Institute of National Remembrance cooperates with the German Archive Arolsen. This is an archive that has information about millions of victims of German concentration camps, and the Institute of National Remembrance is the only institution in Poland that has access to this data. Several thousand people learn about their ancestors through our information. Now the watch has been given, a few months ago the ring has been given. This ceremony was attended by the director of this archive, German ambassador, seven representatives of diplomatic offices in Poland. Dr. Grenuch's case is over for the Institute of National Remembrance. We cooperate with many institutions outside Poland. Last year we cooperated with around 90, and in this report they were mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! This report concerns hundreds of initiatives. I'm reminding you of the reality We acted last year. Last year, there were allegations that there was no international cooperation, but it was weaker due to sanitary constraints. Our publications come around in English. Mr President, please take a look at our website prepared specifically in English. Our publications are translated and sent to about 1000 institutions around the world. I remind you of a film by the Institute of National Remembrance about a camp for children on the street. Industrial in Łódź, the only one in occupied Europe. Now the museum is being built. The film, prepared in seven languages, was blocked by Facebook at the beginning of 2021. So the truth about the German occupation is blocked and this is not the first case. I can list a whole catalogue of such activities in relation to our social media activities abroad. Dear Member, perhaps this is an incorrect wording. We used last year's time to expand our online activity, but we always return - and so we believe - and I am glad that this is happening now - to normal activities that provide direct contact between people, because nothing will replace direct meetings of historians at international conferences organized by us. Mr President, I invite you at the beginning of July to an international conference, which will also include representatives of Israel, dedicated to the history of Silk and later to discussions on this subject, the results of scientific research. This is the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. The state is accusing us of propaganda. Here are 70 pages, several hundred publications, articles, books of employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. Please find such content there. You're insulting more than 2,000. employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, accusing them of opinions which you will not find in any publication, at not one exhibition of the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue is the cooperation and activity of the Institute of National Remembrance in the international dimension. We cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is thanks to him that our content reaches Polish institutes around the world, diplomatic institutions. We cooperate with the Polish Community, a newsletter is being sent on an ongoing basis. We respond to all cases of lies appearing in the media abroad. Moreover, this report contains a separate chapter on deformities. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been accusations against the Institute of National Remembrance about glorifying certain unworthy actions during the German occupation and actions striking the civilian population. I recommend to you a book on Rajsa Bure, published by the Institute of National Remembrance, a scientific book. Will you find in this scientific publication, because this is how we are discussing any kind of acceptance of his actions concerning the murder of the civilian population? Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue concerns the responsibility of the Institute of National Remembrance and the accusation of the Institute of National Remembrance for two issues: on the one hand, the taking away of the officers of the communist pension security apparatus, on the other hand, the destruction of monuments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is an institution that executes laws because our archives contain documents illustrating the course of the security camera officers' service. Another institution under State law restricts the provision of security equipment to security officers. I just want to point out one thing, ladies and gentlemen. One of the forms of activity of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance is the giving of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity, the award awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland to all those to whom we owe the struggle for free Poland in 1956 and 1989. I invite Members of the Left who have such a social sensitivity that they may meet with those people who, in years of repression, for throwing them out of work, for being harassed by them and their entire families... They live very poor today. This Cross of Freedom and Solidarity is for them the only expression of recognition by the Polish state. Those who oppressed them, on the other hand, are the owners of the companies, the owners of the great estates. This reduction in pensions is a basic and modest expression of justice by the Polish state. Another issue is the destruction of monuments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the law established by you - the law on decommunization of public space. The Institute of National Remembrance gives an opinion on this subject. Here one of your fellow Members spoke about the destruction of monuments of Ukrainian population in south-eastern Poland. I'm asking for specific examples. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the care of the graves in Bydgoszcz. I'll answer that question in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also another task imposed in 2019 on the Institute of National Remembrance. We take care of the graves of the veterans of our struggle for independence. It is in Upper Silesia that there is a lot of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance regarding the care of the graves of the Silesian insurgents. This was the charge, as regards the release of Henryk Sławik's first scientific biography, that the Institute of National Remembrance is not needed to tell a story about this Poland. I would like to remind you that no one has ever heard of Henryk Sławik, when the Katowice branch of the Institute of National Remembrance named his stop Henryk Sławicz long before the authorities of the Silesian Voivodeship adopted such a resolution. And then there were many of our actions, because they asked: Who is Henry Sławik? Today Henryk Sławik has a bench in Budapest, a bench in Warsaw. It is a long-term organic work of the Institute of National Remembrance: meetings with teachers, workshops, competitions for students. We're not, ladies and gentlemen... There was a question about Vincent Witos. Look at our activity in 2018. Vincenty Witos, one of the fathers of independence - an impressive album. The Institute of National Remembrance has always stressed the importance of folk movement, the importance of Vincent Witos. Our exhibition, our activities, publications about the Polish People's Party from 1944 to 1947 - today is our educational activity, which has gone to every school. Information about the activities of the Polish village in favour of free, independent Poland, from the Polish People's Party to the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers - this is the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance. Ladies and gentlemen! The scandalous words that the institute promotes brown ideology came from the state. That's an insult to $2.5,000. employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. But we are immune to this, because from the very beginning of the Institute of National Remembrance this request for the liquidation of the Institute has appeared. The Institute of National Remembrance, as one of the Members has rightly said here, cannot be eliminated because these 3,000. the scientific books we have published, these hundreds of exhibitions - only last year more than 50 new exhibitions - films, workshops, international conferences, our heroes extracted from graves, well buried, powerful... I invited you, the members of the committee, to visit in the archive so that you could see what the archive is doing (the bell), which you do not know at all. But all over the world, our archivists are working on documentation, collecting collections. Ladies and gentlemen! I've made hundreds of personal decisions. The Institute of National Remembrance for the last five years is thousands of initiatives. On the basis of one personal decision, on the basis of several issues, not always true, the state creates an image of the Institute of National Remembrance. But there is something else: there are Poles, there is public opinion. During these five years I have always stressed that the memory of the nation is the sum of these local memories, so we remembered the Silesian uprisings, we remembered the Pomeranian crime. It's been this president of the last five years: going out from behind desks, social activity, commemorating the people we owe freedom to. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, I'm looking at you from the Left, because there were the most accusations on this side, the most criticism and insulting of the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. Take a look at the publications from last year devoted to the independent activity of the left, the Polish People's Party, Kazimierz Pużak, the independence tradition of the left. On the other hand, we will be uncompromising, because that is also what the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance obliges us to do - to uncompromising attitude towards totalitarian legacy, whether it is brown totalitarianism, whether it is totalitarianism red. One more question, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, from the Civic Coalition. There are opposition activists in your ranks, too, with whom we meet and commemorate. They understand the need for the Institute of National Remembrance, they appreciate our work. We are an institution of the Polish state. We are not the institution of one or the other political camp. We commemorate everyone to whom we owe independent Poland, because we are obliged to do so. Read the preamble to the Constitution. What does it say about our 1,000-year-old heritage, including the Christian heritage? That we're obliged to remember. And that's what the National Remembrance Institute does. [[Two questions: emails and Nawrocki.]] You're Dr. Charles Nawrocki. Ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, when I became president of the Institute of National Remembrance, Dr. Karol Nawrocki was the head of the National Education Office in Gdansk, a longtime employee of the Institute of National Remembrance. Five years ago, I offered Dr. Nawrocki a management position at the Centre of the Institute of National Remembrance, knowing his achievements, but he received a proposal from the Ministry of National Culture to direct the Museum of World War II. He chose that offer. It was bad for the Institute of National Remembrance, it was good for Poland that for 5 years he managed this institution. After reaching retirement age, after retiring one of the vice presidents, I offered Dr. Karol Nawrocki to work as vice president of the Institute of National Remembrance, because indeed, the state, the activity of the Institute in many areas at this moment, in view of what we hear outside Poland, against these numerous lies, the change in the way the occupation in Poland looked, requires strengthening. Hence my proposal to join forces of the Institute of National Remembrance and the Museum of World War II. Besides, Dr. Karol Nawrocki is already in charge of such a project. [[What about those e-mails?]] Mr. President, I have a heartfelt request for you. I have extended your speech for six minutes because the matter is important, but go to the end, please, and answer in writing, Mr Honourable. Look, it's evening, there's other stuff. So, Mr. President, two sentences. President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: One sentence, Marshal. Here you go, and thank you. President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Ladies and gentlemen! 2020 is also a public opinion poll. I have a lot of distance to different polls and so on, but there was one poll that showed that 53% respondents positively evaluate the Institute of National Remembrance. This is an increase of 7% in 2020. On the other hand, negative assessments are 13%. It's down from 18% to 13%. Thank you very much. President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: This is an evaluation, I think, of most Poles. Thank you very much. Thank you, above all, to the staff of the Institute of National Remembrance for this activity. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u507	In correction mode, because a lot of things could be straightened out. But there'll be three. First thing. You're saying you won't whiten Rajsa Burego. It means that you don't know what your institution is doing, you don't know what the IPN is doing in Bialystok, you don't know, among other things. about the celebrations prepared for this year at Gajrowski, where the employees of your institute will participate in building this grim cult of a criminal. Second thing. There's nothing more pathetic than not being able to admit what happened. You didn't answer our question about why you paid homage to the murderer and child murderer Volyniak. [[In what mode?]] Third case, last one. Don't wipe your mouth with Kazimierz Pużak or Zygmunt Zaremba... [[No mode!]] ...and don't put them in the same line with the fascists of the NAS you worship. [[Get off the podium!]] And you know why you shouldn't do that? Read what Zygmunt Zaremba wrote after Kasznica's trial about the Enechetists. If you don't know, I'll quote you. I'll quote you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: But I'm sorry, what's going on here?]] [[What's this? Mr. Marshal, is that a corrigendum? What's this?]] The NSZ, as well as the communists and for similar reasons, was placed outside the brackets of underground Poland. Underground Poland adopted the principles of democracy and social progress and laid them as the foundation of independence... [[Voice from the room: What is it, marshal?]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] ...and the NAS was a fascist ideology, an enemy of democracy. Ladies... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what is this? That's a corrigendum? That's a corrigendum, isn't it?]] This is a corrigendum, sir. This is a corrigendum, because President Sharek said, my fellow Member, that the leader of the left's independence... [[And that's a corrigendum?]] [[Voice from the room: How much time is there to correct?]] ... Kazimierz Pożak and Zygmunt Zaremba can be placed in one line with the criminals and murderers of the children you are defending. Well, they can't, and they won't. [[Applause]] [[It's a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u508	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] But your name wasn't mentioned. [[Excuse me, in corrigendum mode.]] Your name wasn't mentioned. [[I was mentioned.]] No. [[I was, Mr. Marshal, I was replaced.]] [[It's been replaced.]] Please, Mrs Anna Milczanowska, rapporteur for the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, I've been replaced.]] You're welcome. [[I was mentioned by the envoy...]] Mr Anna Milczanowska and then you will have the floor, okay? Wait a minute, sir. Member, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I apologize on behalf of my colleagues at the United Right Club for what you have heard today, for what the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance have heard, who deserve great thanks. The words of attack and aggression directed by some Members towards a professor, a scientist, a historian with passion, the author of dozens of books, scientific studies - this is not appropriate, ladies and gentlemen. Not like this. [[Voice from the Chamber: In the presence of the Ombudsman, how have you behaved? There you go...]] The Institute of National Remembrance is one of the few institutions that were founded after 1989, and is not burdened with the heritage of the Polish People's Republic. People who were free from responsibility for the communist regime started working there, and I know that thanks to Professor Shark many such people have been admitted to the Institute of National Remembrance for the last five years. Moreover, the Institute of National Remembrance as a state institution performs tasks that no university or academy can carry. And here are many of you who would like to do? Eliminate. No college, no academy. These are e.g. reviews concerning false pseudohistorical publications about the Holocaust, Polish concentration camps, and the state often refers to the authors of these publications - I will not mention their names, because I am ashamed to even speak of such authors who destroy the historical truth of our homeland. The role of the Institute of National Remembrance from the beginning was primarily to make it clear that it was not possible to be a democratic society and a nation governed by the rules of democratic institutions if we did not understand our own past. If it does not cut, and already managed a lot, the dependencies which the Third Polish Republic inherited from the Polish People's Republic from its totalitarian character, and there was a great deal of it. There would be no free democratic elections if society did not know the real resumes of candidates who pretend to be councillor, Member or other politician. It is known that people and large lobbies, also in this room... [[Don't yell at us.]] Ma'am, I'm not screaming. [[That's it. That's it.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] Also collected large lobbies here in this room coming from the PZPR or from other services or in some other way involved in the Polish People's Republic, are, of course, in favour of eliminating the Institute of National Remembrance, because you do not want to know the historical truth, you do not want to learn about these facts which for years gather employees of the Institute of National Remembrance and they are available to all of us. We are a nation of free people capable of maintaining a genuine democratic system. After the time of totalitarianism such an institution was very much and is needed. I once again asked the Left at the Justice Committee's meeting if the Left would suggest to Israel that the Jad Yours Institute be destroyed, how important - I think it is very important - because it is expensive and unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance plays a similar role as the Jad Yours Institute. One more thing - some of you have referred to the Gazeta Wyborcza, which, of course, has been opposed to vetting from the very beginning. We know that the head of the newspaper is the brother of an elusive man responsible for dozens of communist crimes, who sentenced innocent people, working especially in an independent underground, to death penalty, to life - I am talking about Stefan Michnik. Ladies and gentlemen, it was your colleagues who referred to Gazeta Wyborcza. Prof. Jarosław Szarek is the author of e.g. Is someone gonna break that wall? About Stanisław Pyjas. No one else, only a certain editor of Malek, worked in the Gazeta Wyborcza, a friend of the sleeper. Stanisław Pyjas, who, as it turns out, was a secret co-worker and did a lot of bad things, reported on his friend and other friends. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth changing this narrative, because in historical truth, which is being violated, lied by many countries in the world, in our Polish historical truth... This depends on the Germans who whitewash in a fantastic way, producing such films, not other films, in history books constantly writing about Polish concentration camps. It's also about other countries that I'm not going to mention here. We should all stand like one husband to defend what the Institute of National Remembrance does to defend Polish historical truth, because based on it we are really able to educate, raise generations of future Poles of patriots. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u510	Thank you very much. In correcting, please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u511	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr Necessary was polite to replace me, to say that I was excited about the performance of Professor Grey or the work of the IPN. I would therefore like to correct that I have made a number of critical comments to the work of the IPN, to the report presented. On the other hand, I will refer briefly to what Mr Zandberg said. Mr President, you do not need to like the National Armed Forces, nor do you need to like the national and Catholic ideas behind the formation. The fact that you've found one historian. Or a publicist who thinks it's fascism or who calls it fascism... [[The leader of underground Poland...]] Yes, you know very well that the underground was highly conflicted internally. Please learn classes from historians who, despite their sympathy, e.g. National or Catholic do not defame the various ideological insults of those who had opinions, e.g. Socialist and fought against the German occupation or the Soviets. However, try to address class with all the formations that fought in the underground. Besides, socialists know well what it means not to be democrats, many of them created dictatorial governments before the war and the totalitarian regime after the war, so the charge on your part that someone there did not identify with democracy sounds ridiculous. You're sitting in the benches of the Left, working in socialist organizations. We know that a lot of people are there for democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u512	Thank you very much. I think today's discussion shows how many bad emotions are gathered around history, and shows how much more to do about it. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights requests that the information contained in print No 1140 be accepted. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. But I will hear an objection because I object. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2020 and comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland (print No 1104) together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (print No 1251). I'm asking Mr. Nicholas Paweł Pawlak to present the information. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u513	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear President, Allow me to address President Shark again. Starting from the end of 2020, in December 2020, I appointed a Council for commemorating Polish children from the German concentration camp in Łódź at the Ombudsman's office. It was not even six months ago, and thanks to you, Prime Minister Peter Gliński, this museum was established a few weeks ago. Thank you, Mr President, for these collections and I hope that this museum will be the memory center of Polish children from different places of execution. Thank you very much for this great work of the Institute of National Remembrance. [[How'd you get dressed?]] In passing, High Izbo, to the information of the annual Ombudsman of the rights of the child and to the observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland in 2020, I would remind you that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child is a constitutional body for the protection of the rights of the child. The fundamental rights of a child are the right to life, health care, the right to family education, decent social conditions, the right to study. It's an open directory, but these most important rights are listed. An important aspect of the Ombudsman's activities in each year from the years of activity is general speeches addressed to institutions and entities. 2020 was an exceptional year especially for children due to the COVID pandemic and the associated restrictions. Children born after 2000, you can say, are a generation of prosperity... [[What do you mean? Poland in ruins.]] ...and they weren't prepared to survive the time of closure and separation in complete peace. Many social aspects will certainly be a subject for various studies. There is a need to address new unpredicted challenges both in the area of legislation and, above all, in mutual support and reconstruction of links and social relations. Health rights, right to family education, social rights, right to study - they will require re-evaluation, sometimes maybe a new definition, or maybe the opposite. There may be a restoration of their original value, which we often forgot before the pandemic. However, 2020 is not just a COVID pandemic, it is also a year of life. And this is the most important human right, mentioned in every constitution, in every convention and in the Ombudsperson's Act. This is where I specially arrived today, with a picture, to have free hands, because the 21st century is a picture language. This picture simply represents the right to live... [[We can read.]] ...listed in The right to life is the most important human right. It benefits everyone regardless of race, skin color, religion, wealth, health, or any other qualities. The right to life is enshrined and enshrined in all the most important acts of law. The right to life stands before any other law with unconditional priority. The rules laid down can only confirm and protect this right. It comes from natural law, it is a fundamental part of it. And that's what happened last year. The right to life is finally protected in Poland as it should be. [[Applause]] The Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child in 2020 was active with the help of the Ombudsman's Office. In the judicial and family affairs team, the most common cases concerned family upbringing, including by both parents, were also about disputes, divorces, separations, protection of life and health, social conditions, the right to science and protection against violence. Special actions have also been undertaken as part of the activities of the Family and Minor Affairs Team due to the COVID pandemic. In 2020, a child's trust phone assigned to this team was launched 24/7. This is the first state-run, 24/7, you can say, specialized support phone. In December alone, there were over 8,000. telephone calls and internet chats. This tool turned out to be very needed for children and young people, and thanks to this phone we saved many lives because the children trusted, called and could be saved at this difficult time. That's gonna be here any minute. In the area of education and upbringing, as I signaled, children had the hardest time in their education. The year 2019 - we remember spring when for three weeks children were completely devoid of education. The right to study - the right guaranteed by the Constitution. However, in 2020 and now, by 2021, this right has been very limited. There were disciplinary proceedings in the education team - almost a thousand cases, cases of children in institutional foster care. Interventions in the field of the functioning of schools, kindergartens, offices. However, above all, the reports concerned various forms of support for children and young people in remote education, because it was the main topic not only of our discussions here, in Parliament, but especially of all those who care about children. Parents have learned how much work is required by teachers and teachers, teachers and educators have also understood how much help parents have in education. And children - which is also apparent from the study that was conducted in December by my office, which we probably did not speak so loudly about two years ago - missed school, meeting with their peers, meeting with a teacher, so that the teacher could pass on this knowledge in an excellent way. And those things in the education team were the most important last year. Social, social and administrative matters, including health - very complicated facts, but also concerning the assistance of specific children, especially during the first period of the pandemic, when hospitals were closed and children were separated from their parents, especially the youngest ones. A very important element of child support, you might say, is the presence of parents. And this right has been repeatedly, due to other, more important rights, such as the right to life and health of others, limited. There have been a lot of my interventions in this regard. There have been cases concerning welfare benefits. I would like to remind you that in March, when the first lockdown was introduced, the Ombudsman's speech on child welfare benefits caused that after a few weeks the High House passed rules granting benefits to parents of the youngest children and some of the older children, especially those with disabilities. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Here's another thing about... [[Excuse me, Marshal, you're sitting here without a mask, can you please get her attention...]] [[Voice from the room: Four times vaccinated.]] I'm asking you to put on a mask. [[I'm sick of the mask.]] Special... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down, please. [[Okay, if we're gonna do the theater, fine.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The next range of cases in the Ombudsman's Office is international. I would like to point out to the High House that matters relating to Polish and foreign families, assistance benefits, the rights of minors of foreigners, but above all cases concerning parental abductions from so-called. The Hague Convention was so much that it was often also addressed to the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, not all courts are yet looking at the welfare of the child, the highest good, but are looking at a tough recipe. This resulted in situations in which children, even after many years of their presence in Poland, were to be returned to their parents, to carers in another country, in a country they did not know. In this respect, many cassation complaints have been brought by me, most of them have already been considered reasonable at the preliminary stage by halting the enforcement of these judgments. There was also good cooperation with the Border Guard when it comes to children and families located in centres for foreigners. Checks were also carried out at voivodship offices in the performance of the relevant tasks concerning legalization of stays. Unfortunately, these proceedings were not conducted at a satisfactory pace in all voivodships. As a spokesman, I participated, due to the pandemic remotely, in several international meetings, among others. at the European Annual Meeting of the European Network of Ombudsmen for the Rights of the Child, and these were basic tasks related to the activities of the Ombudsperson on international issues. As I mentioned, the activity of a child's phone is very important. The campaign to mention this, which unfortunately reminds us of this, was not accepted by all those who want to help their children, supposedly wanting to help their children. My speeches for the social campaign were addressed three times to all the biggest television in Poland and only one, guess which TV responded positively when it came to this social campaign? [[The one who took the money for...]] On the other hand, those remaining who have not responded to the Ombudsman's appeal are the first to show the most difficult cases with the question of what is happening in these cases. I am very cordially appealing and I ask that we all want to help children together, because, as you have repeatedly shown in this Chamber, the rules on children, for example concerning the aspects of international kidnappings from the Hague Convention, such as the anti-violence law and many, many others, are adopted unanimously. Therefore, I ask that this scope of activity be also seen and accepted by all of you. As regards child rights promotion activities, last year caused that it was impossible to visit, as in previous years several thousand children, there were only a few meetings, while there were still active patronages of the Ombudsman over various types of competitions, meetings and initiatives of children. An important element of the Ombudsman's activity in the Ub. R. was involved in the creation of a state committee in short. Pedophilia. I was the first to appoint a person to serve on this committee. Mr Blazej Kmiesiak has become chairman of this committee and thanks to me this committee has begun to act at all. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So it is difficult to take critical remarks when there should be at least a gentle thank you for the fact that it was created at all. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Ladies and gentlemen, right now, laughing at it and mocking it, they indicate that I don't think this committee should be set up, and that's very strange. [[You're just proud of yourself, bravo.]] In addition, the rights of the child were promoted in such a way that there were competitions for master's work. During the pandemic period there was a huge action on the Internet, to which more than 1.5 million children and young people responded, i.e. He stays at home. The afternoons were meetings with our young stars and the result was the release of 100,000. ecz. Children's records so they can tear themselves apart so they can have more than just sit at home. [[Nobody listens to records today. If you were looking after the kids...]] Another point is that he and the Foreign Minister were appointed, and I thank him very warmly, Prof. To Bligev Rau, a common guide for children and families abroad. This common guide in 29 countries has been launched thanks to diplomatic services and this is support for our citizens abroad in the European Union. Among the observations about the state of the child's rights, the most important is, as I pointed out at the beginning, the restoration of the fundamental right to life, and at the same time the difficult laws which were somehow limited, namely the right to science, remote science, isolation. I am pointing out, and it is all of you that have received written information that the children have passed this exam at least for a good grade. [[Voice from the room: What about you? Fuck you.]] And they should be happy with themselves. Or all of us? I have some doubts because we probably didn't all remember whether as carers, parents, or even creating a law about these most fundamental rights of children. Therefore, many topics remain to be addressed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call on the immediate settlement of alimony cases to continue to be settled. I know that they will be supported by all countries. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u514	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. And I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u515	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on information on the activities of the Ombudsman and on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland, print No 1104. The Speaker of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above information to the committee on 14 April to be heard. Joined committees at their meeting on 9 June this year. took note of information about the activities of the Ombudsman and comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland. The Ombudsman, present at the meeting, personally answered the questions asked by Members. The joint committee's report is contained in print No 1251. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u516	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u517	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on information about the activities of the Ombudsman for the year 2020, together with comments on the observance of the rights of the child in Poland. The information is provided in print No 1104. The Ombudsman is tasked with upholding the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other laws, respecting the responsibility, rights and obligations of the parents. It is also a constitutional control body. As Mr Mikołaj Pawlak has repeatedly stressed, serving as a child's spokesperson, the child is every human being from conception to adulthood. The most important human right is the right to life, which is why I express my deep respect, appreciation, satisfaction that the summary of the annual activity begins by quoting the full position of the Ombudsman expressed in the present case before the Constitutional Tribunal. The Ombudsman is in accordance with Polish law for the right to life. Information about activity is a document showing in a substantive way, material activity throughout the year. This year was an extraordinary year due to the pandemic, with its limitations, which in particular affected the youngest generation. The daily Benedictine work of the Ombudsman and his associates was shown in seven chapters. Let me give you a few numbers. In the area of family, juvenile criminal cases, the Ombudsman handled 1971 new cases and 1610 of previous years. The activity of the trust phone has been described very briefly, but it is an important part of the activity. In response to emerging requests for support for children and young people during the pandemic period, the Ombudsman decided to launch a trust phone and internet chat running around the clock. From 7 December to the end of the year, several thousand conversations were held between children and lawyers, psychologists, and educators. Among them were three interventions, which directly contributed to saving life and health, and two which urgently needed to check the child's care and education situation. Even for one phone that saved lives effectively, it was worth doing so. Unfortunately, from the information provided at the committee meeting, we learned that only TV Poland supported the information campaign of the phone trust and internet chat. [[Voice from the room: He gets 2 billion.]] [[Two billion.]] In matters of education and education, intervention was the leading activity of the Ombudsman. They concerned the functioning of nursery and other childcare facilities, kindergartens and schools, and among others. disciplinary proceedings against teachers. A total of 1372 cases were handled by the Social Affairs Team. Many of them were, of course, related to health care. The team saw problems in families where one or more children with disabilities are raised. They represented only, or maybe as much as, 12% All the cases. For various reasons, the Ombudsman's activities in cases with an international dimension which have been notified 402 are important. As in previous years, the Ombudsman has patronised many initiatives and participated in many initiatives concerning children and their rights. Despite the pandemic, the spokesman held more than 40 meetings. The information showed clearly the diversity of actions undertaken by the Ombudsman, always aimed at the child's well-being and the protection of his rights. The second part concerns comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. It begins with a brief, descriptive diagnosis. Let me draw your attention only to selected, identified problems, areas that call for us all to work for the coming years. First of all, remote science, isolation of young people caused a disturbing rise in mental problems. Secondly, serious problems have been reported (the Bell) regarding the quality of the knowledge provided in the remote learning system. Thirdly, it was a failure to attempt to switch to remote mode when it comes to conducting physical education classes. The comments also indicate the legislative changes and practices that have been proposed. Many of them spokespersons have included in numerous speeches... Thank you very much, sir. ...and it's a good thing they're part of the information. [[Time's up.]] Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Ombudsman and his colleagues for such numerous actions aimed always at the child's welfare, and on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will allow myself to invite you to cooperate in the drafting of legal acts. Thank you very much, sir. Children are the hope that blooms again and again... Thank you. ...a project that is constantly being realized, a future that is always open. Let it be realized... [[It's over, it's over.]] ...our shared vision, our vision of Poland, our homeland of children's rights. [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club welcomes information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020. Thank you now. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u518	Thank you. I'm asking you to follow the time. If I ask you to finish your statement, please do so. Please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u519	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present the club's position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020. When I presented the position of the Civic Coalition Club last year, which concerned the activities of the Ombudsman, many organizations, children, scientists called Mr. Michał Pawlak the butcher of the rights of the child. Today, when it comes to doing this again, I find it painful to say that Polish children do not have their spokesperson. And focusing on 2020, it is important to remember that this year was a time to fight pandemics, to learn remotely and isolate children. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman has done nothing in terms of improving distance learning. Overloaded software bases, isolation of children with judgments, children with disabilities. You haven't done anything to make sure that children who are struggling with psychiatric, psychological problems in any way better survive the first, second and third waves of pandemics. There's probably a fourth wave approaching. I hope you'll do what you couldn't do before when you're supposed to be helping and serving children. There were a lot of things that would really require your intervention. I'll give you just one that happened relatively recently. It was 2020. It was election time. That's what he said: he's trying to tell us it's people. This was said at one of President Duda's meetings in the context of non-heteronormative persons. There are also children among the LGBT community. How are they supposed to feel, Mr. Spokesman, when the president of their country dehumanizes this group they belong to? [[Applause]] At the same time, we are reminded of the standards of tragic years, the 1930s. 20th century This is how the Nazis behaved, because the Nazis treated non-heteronormative and disabled people in this way. What are these people supposed to do? They're supposed to disappear? They're supposed to cease to exist? How do you respond to the scandalous words of Minister Czarnek, who at every step stigmatizes, insults, humiliates, while destroying the Polish school that children must use? It is, after all, that your term of office is the most important - and this number of children's suicides has increased. Have you stood up for thousands of young, underage people who have expressed their dissatisfaction in the streets in connection with the pseudo-judgment of the Julia Przyłębska Tribunal? Where were you when the young men were beaten, whipped, struggled? They were often children. They were taken to police cars by the police. [[Applause]] [[Kids don't go to the demonstration.]] Shouldn't you be one of those people who needed help back then? Where did you hide when the police came to see a young boy, Maciek 14 years old, because he posted the Women's Strike Post? Don't you think that the right of children to speak freely shouldn't be crucial from the point of view of the Ombudsman? Recently my son Jakub gave a diploma of equality at a school in Toruń, III LO. This school invites you. That's where you'll learn to respect another man. That's where you'll learn to respect people who are important. In fact, we are all equal, we are free, and Poland is for everyone. And that's what you need to understand. Tonight, you really did make a scene like this with that shirt you showed me. I believe you've shown that you're a spokesman for unborn children. What, then, about the born children? What did you do for children with disabilities when during the pandemic they were locked up in their homes with their guardians? What did you do for those people who weren't vaccinated? I do not believe that you did not know that as a messenger I was running - too late (the bell) because I could do it in December - and I begged Mr Morawiecki to inoculate these people so that they could leave their homes. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Today Polish children do not have a spokesman. But they have an opponent, another opponent at a difficult time of pandemic, in which their lives turned 180 degrees. [[Voice from the room: 22, 23, 24...]] As the Civic Coalition, we will vote against your report. And you'd be ashamed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u520	Thank you very much. Please pay no attention to the fact that your colleague spoke forty seconds longer. I'm letting everyone finish by asking you to get to the punch line. Please don't interrupt. [[Voice from the room: Some elementary justice.]] Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I submit my position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2020 and on the state of non-compliance with the rights of the child in Poland. The year 2020 is mainly a huge amount of socio-economic change resulting from the spread of the pandemic. We adults can say that we are already tired of this topic, which has completely dominated the social discourse of the last several months. However, for children and young people, these are drastic and dynamic changes in everyday functioning. It is about closing schools, which are not only a place of learning, but above all a place of integration, references to a peer group, an invaluable unit of education and socialization. Remote science has stopped this process day by day. The closure of schools also led to the imprisonment of vulnerable victims of this domestic violence in violent homes. Among the youngest, depression, disorder, nervous breakdowns, thoughts, and suicide attempts are increasing. And what does your report focus on? More than 20 pages are written about abortion. It is a long, uncompatible document written from behind the desk and outside the case of this desk. There are many doubts as to how you exercise your position fairly, including on the formal side, such as those contained in the follow-up speech on the implementation of the budget in your unit. Unlawful transfer of 5 million to the State Commission to clarify cases of actions against sexual freedom and morals against minors under the age of 15. There is no control over whether these funds have been spent as intended. In addition, a number of irregularities in the Ombudsman's accounting records. I am also asking for an outstanding report on your activity for 2018, which, to my knowledge, has not yet been submitted to the public. I don't need to add that it's breaking art. 61 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland guarantees citizens and citizens the right to information about the activities of public authorities. However, more than these irregularities frighten the lack of competence, religious fundamentalism, and, above all, the non-fulfilment of your primary task, the protection of the rights of the child. It is no secret that you come from the political environment of Minister Ziobra and his party, which is leading ideological disputes with the LGBT environment. And you personally are at the forefront of this fight. You ridicule the Ombudsman's position not only with your fundamentalistic views, but also with absurd accusations, such as alleged cases of giving children drugs for sex change in one of Poznań's schools. Charges sucked out of his finger, probation center in stupefying. The city of Poznań has spoken and the investigators are embarrassed because you sent a copy of the newspaper article to prove it. Let us add that this article does not even mention this situation. That's what a child's attorney does. One would like to say that you are equal to the infamous spokeswoman, Eve Sowińska, who, years ago, was dealing with the handbag of one of the characters in the fairytale Teletubis. [[Tinky Winky.]] That situation was embarrassing and pitiful. You're no match for her. Oh, my gosh, you're moving on. I could quote many quotes from your statement, which show that you should not be a spokesperson for a minute longer. I'm just gonna quote one statement, and you should resign right away. A statement that you allow children to be beaten: The claps do not leave a big trace. You have to tell the difference between what a spanking is and what a beating is. I remember my father punched me in the ass myself. If we poured our brother's leg down and then set it on fire... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Father responded in time, so that for a good moment I could not sit down, sit down - I'm sorry. Instead of anti-violence education in schools that you and I could use instead of sexual education. I think you have one prescription, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to all the problems and violations of the rights of the child. I'm almost done. Each Pole has his own code of a little Pole and a poem. Who are you? Polish kid. This is the code of the little Pole. I understand you're Catholic. Believe me, it has nothing to do with the charges you're facing. You're just incompetent, ridiculing the office and not defending the rights of the child. Is there something you don't understand? Perhaps I should express it differently: you have defiled this office with speech, deed and negligence and omission. Thank you. [[Applause]] The Left absolutely will not support this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u522	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u523	Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! Mr. Spokesman! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I present the position of our club on information about the activities of the Ombudsman in 2020 and on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland. Children are the great value of our society. Our job, parents, adults, is to make sure that their rights are guaranteed. The right to life, health, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science, have the right to love. Many of these tasks also belong to the duties of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, are enshrined in the Constitution, in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Acts. All our actions should be taken for the child's well-being and care. The Ombudsman, in his capacity, undoubtedly tried to carry them out. We see your intervention on the functioning of schools, kindergartens, on issues of violence, guaranteeing security, and you have taken a lot of action on the issue of minors in institutional foster care and sociotherapy centres. However, there was no strong response and vigilance, or perhaps good will in relation to the situation caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. And the kids and their parents were waiting for her. After almost two years of pandemic, we only recently adopted a law that talks about additional compensatory lessons at school. But this is obviously a drop in the sea, and the problems are huge. The effects of the isolation of our children will be felt for a long time, and there is no response from the Ombudsman. We don't know how many children need immediate psychological and psychiatric assistance. This problem is not monitored. Children and their parents did not know how to behave in a new social situation. How to cope with growing anxiety or severe stress. We didn't notice a child's attorney's reaction here either. Today we hear you're doing some research, but please don't skip the baby. During the pandemic, but not only, children who wanted to commit suicide go to children's hospitals every day. This is our last warning, adults. But I don't see the Ombudsman's decisive actions here either. There's still a big problem with child psychiatry. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the more and more we talk about this problem, the more this problem gets. Children should also be immediately subject to prevention in terms of posture defects. Coronavirus' pandemic put this problem down even more, the children stayed in their homes, stayed in front of their computers, still had a leaning position. I think today is the time for us to take care of the children's rehabilitation clinic. Nor here do we hear any opinions from your Ombudsman on this matter, and the problem, as I say, is very burning. So from this place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, the Polish People's Party, I call for the help of children in matters of mental and physical health, as well as greater care for the safety of children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u524	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u525	Mr. Spokesman! There's a lot in your report of right things. It is a good thing that the Ombudsman emphasizes the right of the child to live, also before birth, and thank you for this symbolic shirt. It would indeed be ridiculous if the Ombudsman questioned the right of the child is the most fundamental, without which other rights this child will never be able to exercise again. [[Applause]] Then it wouldn't be a spokesperson, it would be a prosecutor or a prosecutor or a torturer. We'd have to change the name of this position if he had to speak on the other side of the barricade. When it comes to dehumanizing here, I will appeal to Mrs Hartwich, because you spoke about it, that speech from the president in the campaign may not have been the happiest, but you know very well that he wasn't after the fact that people with homosexual tendencies weren't human. He doesn't understand this shortcut as human. He understands it as ideology. And you know it wasn't about that. [[Let me think on my own.]] But when it comes to dehumanizing, there are people on your side who really say that a child is not human before birth. [[Applause]] That's what they really say. It's not a slip of the tongue, it's what they really think. As far as dehumanization is concerned, I would watch out for words and references to Nazi stories, because it was not anyone else but the aquariumist who introduced, who was the first to legalize abortion in Polish lands. [[Take care of Corwin when he talks about the disabled...]] We're not talking about Mr. Korwin today. Well, maybe we can talk some other time. I am pleased that the Ombudsman sees a number of problems related to national closure, the so-called. National quarantine, with isolation. Indeed, what happened in this and in the previous year will probably be a generational event, something that will probably shape the psyche of the next generation in a lasting way, and it will unfortunately be a burden rather than an advantage. It is also important to note why this happened. It wasn't the virus that locked people in their homes, it was the government that locked people in their homes. It was people who made this fate. But if I were to point out a negative here, this is my main charge, this is an area in Poland where there is really gross discrimination based on sex: no, it is not an extortional pay gap, it is a way of treating fathers in family courts in matters of care, in enforcement of contacts. In the whole practice of judging and supervising contacts with a child, the other side of the problem is the right of the child to contact his father in Poland. We have a really bad family law and even worse judicial practice, which is not sensitive to these mild legislative interventions so far. Even if the legislator allows for alternate care, the courts still believe that they know better, they recognize that alternate care is incompatible with the welfare of the child, because the child should have one center of life. It's such a simple mechanism: the mother stops the child, she's safe for it, if the father does, she has an immediate police entrance to the cabin. The father comes to the court before he hears from you, he's already got a claim for protection, and he's starting to pay his alimony before the court even settles the case at all. Then it's hard to make the decision different, since we've been on the run since the first minute, we're playing on the curveball field. The mother, because most often the mother is this party to make sure that the child stays with her, blocks or limits the child's contact with the father, the child begins to fear these contacts, ceases to feel naturally in them, often the freedom of these contacts is limited, there is such a self-fulfilling mechanism in psychological tests: the relationship with the father turns out to be weakened, so the mother wins what she wants, and the father becomes only a provider of money. A radical change in family law is needed, just as this problem is radical. The current regulations simply push people into such a conflict, because if the court insists that it must give one this care, only one can win, then, of course, it puts them in a conflict position. This should be the starting point. The arbitrary category of child's welfare, which is contained in the code, opens the gates of hell when the official decides what's good for the child. But why am I talking about this? Recently, in April, in your speech, you showed an understanding of this problem and even said what should be changed: that alternate care should be the default form of custody ruling and that non-fulfilment of contacts should be validated. But still under senate print number 63, which introduces these things, you have a negative opinion. I understand your reservations about this project, and I even think that they are largely right, but this opinion is a typical way of pouring out a baby with a bath. The reservations you raise can be made in the course of work on the project, even if it needs to be quite thoroughly altered. Mr. Spokesman! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here's the perfect state, and here's print number 63, while we're somewhere where the Left sits. Every day that this pathological condition is maintained is the day that thousands of children forever lose touch with their fathers. This damage can no longer be repaired in many cases. And in the case of children without a father, there is a much greater chance of conflicting with the law, addiction, the emergence of mental problems, and less chance of a successful family life. If we had only this choice: the present state or the one from print no.63 without any corrections, we should press the button from no.63 without hesitation. Sir, I'm asking you to withdraw this opinion or modify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u526	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u527	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! I have no doubt that you are a person who would be cut up for his own views - and your shirt shows it today - but I have great doubts that you would be cut up for any Polish child. [[Applause]] And that's the biggest problem with you as the man in charge. Polish children really do not need an ideologist, they need a person who will seek help in specific matters and will provide this help herself. You started your report by quoting in full the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the admissibility of abortion. I have to say, it's a surprising decision, although today's choice of shirt makes it maybe more readable. However, I wanted to remind you that even Jarosław Kaczyński says that you can go abroad and have an abortion there without any problem. You're a little out of the mainstream with a decision like that. And you know what? There's one simple way to find out what the real intentions are when someone talks so much about abortion. I wanted to ask you if you really mean these children or the fetuses - we're not here to argue about the words... [[You need to know a bit of science.]] [[The fetus is the stage of child development.]] Is it really about their health? Have you ever made any intervention regarding the access of Polish women to a gynecologist? And yet, if you are talking about the welfare of children or fetuses, the lack of access of Polish women to gynecological care is an absolute basis for them to develop properly. [[Applause]] You know, the problem is that there are problems of Polish children where you see them, because the problem of Polish children is their suicides and suicide attempts. You're talking about the call of trust you've launched, but your report shows that only three interventions have dealt with this type of issue. Look at how many suicide attempts are taken by Polish children, Polish teenagers, how many suicide attempts are unfortunately effective and how the number grows, because this is the most frightening. You're talking about the right to live in the family. I wanted to ask you how important and important your interventions were to ensure that institutional care, when it comes to children who remain outside their families, turns into foster families and does not remain cared for in their institutions. Because it's a real implementation of the right of children to be raised in the family. You speak in your report about the right of children to live without violence. This is one of the most important rights of a happy childhood. It's just, you know, there's a clear dilemma about which side you're gonna stand on, if on the one hand you have the value of family inviolability, and on the other hand, there's another value: that child's right to live without violence. Which side will you be on in this dispute? Because unfortunately, the growing number of children who are beaten, even killed, go to hospitals, indicates that we have something very important to do here. I feel like you're on the wrong side of this argument. The right to study. I'm not talking about last year, because it was really dramatic. We've got depressed kids, we've got posture flaws. Thank you very much one of my previous speakers for paying attention to this. Today, almost all Polish children have flaws in attitudes. It's a drama. These are children who in 10, 20, 30 years will not be able to function normally. Are we aware of this? Now is the moment when children continue to study in stationary mode. I don't see your activity in this situation. Somewhere here, in an earlier speech, that this year, the year of lockdown, when the kids couldn't learn in normal mode, you had 40 meetings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Congratulations. It's really shocking. They're going out about four meetings a month. [[Applause]] I have a lot of other charges against you here, but I'm going to repeat what I started with: children really don't need ideology. [[LGBT ideology.]] Unfortunately, some forms of this ideology kill Polish children. Kids just need help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u528	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If so, do so. I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. There's one minute to ask a question. I'm asking you to follow the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! If there's nothing to brag about, it's happening. And that's the situation today. [[Oh, that's good.]] In 2020, 843 children attempted suicide, 107 children died. The youngest was eight years old. [[Don't play with these suicides.]] [[The voice from the room: It's a mess.]] I'm asking you to calm down. It's the end of April. In Mazowsze... [[Voice from the room: Play with suicides...]] [[So what did you do to help?]] [[Voice from the hall: What did you do?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. It's the end of April. In Mazowsze there is one psychiatric ward for children under the age of 14 (the bell), 22 beds. This branch in Józefów also serves the Podlaskie voivodship because, Mr. Spokesperson, there is no psych ward for children in the Podlaskie voivodship. Go ahead and finish it, sir. I'd like to ask you a question, Marshal. What are you doing for child psychiatry, to provide more beds and better care for Polish children? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u530	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? [[I'm here.]] [[And to you, gentlemen and ladies, I will disturb you. Smart guys...]] [[A voice from the room: Oh, that's a threat.]] I'm asking you to... [[A moment ago, the Member said he would be intruding.]] I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal, here it has already been announced that the Member will be intruding.]] I would ask for peace in the court, sir. And on one side, and on the other side, I ask you to remain calm. Please, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u531	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, millions of young people do not have access to adequate healthcare. In solitude, they deal with their own problems, anxiety, and depression. In many cases, it ends tragically. In 2020, 116 children committed suicide, the youngest of whom were 8 years old. About one in five children's deaths are caused by suicide. Psychological care is only 60% of schools, often once a week. There are no psychiatrists available. For 7 million children, there are only 31 psychiatric units facing underfunding. Your relationship is best summarized by the disgusting rumors of yesterday's LGBT+ suicides. Why does a child's rights spokesman pay so little attention to the collapse of child psychiatry? Are you speaking to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health? Unfortunately, as we can see, you're busy with some kind of ideological war, wearing stupid T-shirts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, you are a spokesperson for children's rights, provided that the child is not a woman, is not an LGBT person, he is not a disabled person. Thank you very much, sir. Last word. Every day of your contempt and inaction means another child's tragedy. Change your inhuman politics, right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u532	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u533	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! My previous speakers have rightly noted that there is a very big problem when it comes to psychological and psychiatric care for children and young people. You wrote a letter to the minister, but what have you done besides that? Because this problem is getting worse with the pandemic. He makes Poland second in Europe in terms of the number of suicides of minors. The problem is particularly evident among young people LGBT+. As many as 69% of them have suicidal thoughts, and your work needs to be done by young people, such as those of the Ostra Zielenia Association, young green people who support LGBT+ people with an action of hope burning, like the Student Rights Foundation, who collects signatures under the citizens' bill to make it mandatory for a psychologist in schools. What concrete actions have you taken (the bell) on psychiatric and psychological assistance for children and young people and on combating discrimination against young people LGBT+? Finally, the final question is: Are you going to respond to the shameful words of Minister Czarnek in which he called LGBT+ abnormals? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u534	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u535	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! There were 33 references to suicides among young people in the Ombudsman's activity, and, attention, only three references to the Ombudsman's activity in the subject of child psychiatry. If there are more, I ask the Ombudsman to correct it. Meanwhile, in terms of suicide attempts of young people, Poland is second in Europe. Even worse, according to the KPH report, as much as 70% LGBT patients under the age of 18 have suicidal thoughts. Do you know how many times in your information it's LGBT? Zero, zero times. This number is so eloquent, I'll leave it without comment. All I ask is for you to know what action you have taken to reform psychiatric health care for children and young people. How will you respond to the data I have quoted and the problem of suicidal thoughts among LGBT teenagers? Does the Office of the Ombudsman intend to take action and monitor in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u536	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I'm not gonna say anything but everyone, because this is a tragic thing about kids who commit suicide. But can you say that to a man who comes in a fetus T-shirt? If you'd come in a T-shirt where it says, "I respect the children and I'm here to help them, I'd probably expect something from you. [[Applause]] And now I actually don't expect anything from you. But here's what I'm going to say. And you, dear government, like to be in high places in the ranking, so here you go: Poland is at the forefront of Europe in terms of the number of suicides. In 2020 as many as 843 suicide attempts among children and adolescents were reported in Poland for the total number of suicides - 12 013. There were 29 cases in the age group 7,12 and 814 cases in the age group 13, 18 years. The worst figures are for 2020. This year, as many as 107 suicide attempts (The Bell) among children and adolescents under the age of 18 proved effective. The police reported one fatal case in the age group 7 and 12 and as many as 106 fatal cases in the age range 13 and 18. In comparison, the total number of suicide attempts in Poland ended in death was 5164. Go ahead and finish it, sir. As the NIK report summarizes, mental health problems are increasing and are the result of many factors: globalisation, socio-economic conditions, difficulties of growing up, problems of family life, as well as parents' relations with children... Go ahead and finish it, sir. ...which can increase the sense of loneliness and the risk of self-destruct. What are you doing in this regard? Thank you very much. I want this answer in writing so I can show Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u538	Thank you very much. Please comply with time discipline. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! In your speech, you said that it was you who created the Office of the State Commission for Foreign Affairs. explain cases of action against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under 15 years of age. It's bad if they don't work together with offices that have been set up to take care of the child's well-being and to keep him safe and exchange opinions in newspapers. So I have a question for you, sir. What exactly is the cooperation of the Ombudsman's office with the State Commission? How many meetings have these institutions held on matters relating to children? What was the effect of these conversations? What's the flow of information between your office and the committee? How many cases have you handled at the committee's request? What is the monitoring of your office's proceedings in committee concerning children who are molested (the bell) for whom paedophile activities are being undertaken? Does the Ombudsman respond to letters addressed to him by the Commission's office? How many letters did you receive, how much did you reply to? Thank you very much. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u540	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I see that the Ombudsman has kindly exchanged letters with the Minister of Education on the problems of students related to remote education. But what exactly did you arrange for the students in these matters? How did the Minister react to your letter? With regard to inclusive education, how do you respond to the fact that you are trying to work with students with disabilities who are qualified to teach only in general schools? Isn't that a violation of the rights of disabled children? What problems did you diagnose in special schools, and how did you solve them? Did these problems also concern schools, e.g. in Bydgoszcz and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? And one last thing. What did you do to improve the tragic psychiatric care of children in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? I kindly ask you to answer in writing on this matter, because this is what the people of my voivodship expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u542	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u543	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman, when I listened to your speech, I had the impression that it was - among other things. For an hour, like the word on Friday. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Spokesman, I would very much like to hear about the child's phone being advertised. I'll remind you of this number that you didn't mention, so that it can hold on to all those in need: 800 12 12 12. I would like to know how many minors victims of paedophile crimes have been reported to this number in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u544	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u545	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You have to tell the difference between what a spanking is and what a beating is. The clap doesn't leave a big trace. I'd like to remind you that my dad gave me a bullet in the ass. What do you think, are those the words that he said to the court about hitting the children with a degenerate? No, these are the words of the child's spokesperson, Nicholas Pawlak, who, as the law provides, is taking action to protect the child from violence, cruelty and mistreatment. A man of such views as yourself should never be a spokesman for anyone and certainly not children. You have no idea of their problems. When your children took remote schooling at home for months without contact with their peers, you were talking about some gender-change pills in schools. It sounds like a cabaret, but it's not funny at all, because it's a total embarrassment of your person and the total collapse of the office you represent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u546	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u547	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman, when I saw you entering this room, I admit, I was terrified when I saw you in your shirt, because the fact that you sympathize - and it's working out well - and it's in good relations with power, absolutely not surprising anyone, but I admit that I was afraid that if you took off your jacket, I would see the image of Marshal Richard Terletki. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because yesterday, here, standing and unbuttoning the breast, Mr Waldemar Andzel paraded in this shirt. So far, the appearances of happiness remain. [[Get to the point.]] Nevertheless, Mr. Spokesperson, I would like to repeat with my previous speakers the question about child psychiatry and the actions you have taken. Why were there so few and what further steps are you going to take to improve the situation in this crazyly important area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u548	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska. There is no Member. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u549	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! In the first quarter of 2021, 19 minors committed suicide and attempted to kill themselves in 271. 44% adolescents have symptoms of depression and 16% have symptoms of depression. It's mutilated. Yesterday we were able to see what the government was thinking when ministers clapped in the speech of Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bąk, who reminded us of the disgraceful words and reminded us of the violence that is being applied to young people of LGBT+. A few more facts, Mr. Spokesman, because about 50% Students and students don't have access to a psychologist at school. Young people, students, students, organized themselves and collected signatures under the citizens' bill on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal Elżbieta Witek said that during the school year we will provide psychological assistance to every student in every school. [[The Dentobuses will be in any one of them.]] Mr. Spokesman, do you intend to engage in these activities, observe them, participate actively... [[There's been dentobuses in every school for six years.]] ...do you have a plan? I have no doubt that there should be a psychologist in every school... Thank you very much, Member. ... especially given the number of victims of this system that I have mentioned, a system that does not protect young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u550	Thank you very much. I'd really like you to finish your speeches, but please watch your time. Come in, Mrs Barbara Nowacka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u551	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! It was an extremely difficult time for Polish kids. So many misfortunes have never beenfallen upon them in recent years. Pandemic, exclusion, often locked in a house that can be oppressive. Then the oppressive country, which some Polish children persecuted. Unworthy statements by education ministers, even the President of the Republic of Poland, the threat of suicide, a school in which they are not understood, and the horror of the climate crisis. The Lord comes to us, to the High House, he gives us trim tales here, he tells us how wonderful you are, and that's bullshit. You weren't with the kids. You didn't want to work where you needed your job. It is great that you attend online conferences, but Polish children needed your activity when the schools were closed (the bell), and the poorer children, the poorer ones, did not have access to the cafeteria when they did not return to sport, return to normal life, and their safety at home is often threatened. You weren't there because you loved yourself. Mr. Spokesman, take care of your work. That's what we pay you to protect your children for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u552	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u553	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[I'm a replacement. Talk to me.]] Where were you, Mr. Spokesman, when my parents called me because they couldn't find their children illegally detained by the police on a rainbow night? When the police called the police to the precinct, they accused them of corruption for participating in a women's strike, when they were strangled by a homophobic environment. Victor committed suicide by throwing himself under the subway? What were you thinking? That it's a pity he was gay? Where were you when the number of cases of depression and suicides has increased avalanche among young people? When the Minister of Education doesn't condemn physical punishment? When Poland refused to grant international protection Chechen Mainie along with seven children, [[Applause]] Who was running from the war in Chechnya? When Mr. Czarnek forces his children to confess Catholic religion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When paedophiles in cloths that hurt children are transferred to other parishes to hurt others? You're not the spokesperson for the rights of the child. You're the spokesperson for the rights of the children of PiS. Loyalty to the party that called you to this position is above the welfare of your children. While you were silent, about the harm that happened to the children... Finish it, Member. ...Citizen's lawyer. Shame! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u554	Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u555	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! This is rare, but this time it happened and in December 2020 the Civic Coalition applied for an appeal from the Ombudsman. This conclusion lies in the seym prints. Ladies and gentlemen, we did it at a time when the spokesperson was talking about sex-change pills, when he said in vitro was wickedness, hitting 25,000. The children who were born as a result of this procedure, when your spokesperson said that spanking was not a problem. When it was a difficult year for all children, when the differences between children stemmed from remote education, when children had mental problems due to closure at home, when we had to deal with a situation where we had to lean over access to psychological assistance, Mr. Spokesman dealt mainly with the unborn ones. Mr. Spokesman is a fundamentalist and amazing egocentric (The Bell) for whom his views are more important than the welfare of the child. The most frequently repeated word in his statements is not a child, only I, because he is the most important and not the welfare of children in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u556	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u557	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't think I'd live to see the MPs tease a T-shirt with an unborn child. [[Applause]] I didn't think I'd live to see a time when something extraordinary would be... [[Take care of the living children, not the embryos. Doctors take care of germs. He's not a doctor.]] ...that the spokesperson for the rights of the child is for life, for a fundamental human right. I didn't think I'd live to see a time like this, that he'd be attacked for it. [[And he's a gynecologist or a spokesperson for children's rights?]] You are playing very rude suicides today, something dramatic, which requires care, assistance, only in political discussion. And what's your offer for the kids? Invite you to a parade of equality or strike. This is the only offer left. You should be ashamed of yourselves. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Gynecologist, that's what you call him. He doesn't take care of children. He takes care of embryos. Gynecologist, pseudogynecologist.]] Mr. Spokesman! A request for you and a thank you at the same time. John Paul II said that the future is culture, not politics, that the future is education and upbringing. These three pillars are the most important today: culture, education and upbringing. And unfortunately, this company, through left-wing ideologies, is attacking these three areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Attacks the most vulnerable: children and young people. And I thank you for defending children and young people from such left-wing ideologies. Thank you very much. You have to resist. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u558	Thank you. I'm asking you to calm down. It seems that John Paul II also spoke of love in all that we forget here. [[Applause]] [[I love you, I love them, but I don't accept what they do.]] Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u559	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! According to the last report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, over 44,000. children in Poland have diagnosed autism or Asperger syndrome. During the pandemic period, children from the spectrum of autism were particularly severely affected by forced remote science. The results in science got worse, mental problems got worse. Did you know that before lockdown 66% The Asperger kids had serious suicidal thoughts? Now these processes are getting worse. I have a question: What have you and your office done for the children of Asperger? Mr. Spokesman, you like T-shirts. I like it, too. Sometimes I have a Bella Ciao or a Kościuszka. Why don't you have one today? A blue T-shirt that supports autistic kids? Why don't you have a purple T-shirt that supports kids who were born prematurely? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Because he's got a T-shirt with a heart.]] Why don't you have a rainbow T-shirt to support the kids who are fighting Minister Czarnek's ideology, but you have a T-shirt that supports the private medical business? [[The voice from the room: What nonsense.]] Is that consistent with professional ethics? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u560	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 2 (2) 1 The Act on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights is a child of every human being from conception to adulthood. You have no right to talk about children's rights because you children want to kill. [[Applause]] Today Ewa Kopacz voted in favour of killing children, and 21 years ago Ewa Kopacz voted in favour of this bill, among others. Grzegorz Schetyn. [[Click...]] What happened to you guys? Today, your heads are filled with LGBT ideology. You want to protect the kids in school? We have to ban homopropagands. Children are to learn and have childhood, not to deal with gender ideology. Rafał Trzaskowski wanted to offer kindergarteners some ideological games in dressing up boys as girls, etc. That's what you're proposing. You have no right to talk about the children, the rights of the children you want to kill. [[You guys dress up at night...]] And it's very good, Mr. Spokesman, that you wore that shirt today, that you reminded me of who the child was. A child is a human being since conception. You can't kill. You're closer to the German Left, who cares about chicks, and you want to kill children. Shame. [[Applause]] [[You're a political chick yourself.]] [[You have no right to judge us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u562	I'm asking you to calm down. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u563	Good evening, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! In this discussion, questions have already been asked about fathers who have problems in contact with their children. Sadly, when there is a conflict in marriage, fathers have many difficulties in getting into these children. They're manipulated in some way, too. The influence of the mother often ends in the fact that after a few years the father has no contact with the child at all. The child is thus prepared for these meetings and discouraged. The situation is that when fathers come to the parliamentary offices, they really have no one to turn to, they have no way of getting help. These conclusions often come to you, Mr. Spokesman. Please tell me what happened last year with regard to statistics. And my big appeal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask that, within your term of office, these matters which come from us, the parliamentarians, also through the parliamentary offices, be dealt with. It's about helping your fathers in this situation. It is very important that the child's right to have contact with the father as well. Sir, I'm asking you to help me in these situations as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u564	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk asked a question in writing. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u565	High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, First of all, great thanks for the work that has been done so far, the initiatives taken during this time, for taking care of the welfare of all children, for the truth proclaimed that every human being is a child from conception to adulthood, for being willing to stand up for the child, above all the most vulnerable, because he is only conceived. Kids have the best mouthpiece. Even this gorgeous T-shirt, unfortunately, is a circle in the eyes of the left side of the room. It is contempt for life, for the man on this side of the room, that puts you in the light of the unreliable people when you talk about equality and tolerance. It's pure hypocrisy. Hypocritical politicians. It is clear that all institutions dealing with children's rights, including international ones, emphasized that the natural environment of the child's development is a family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: End.]] However, there is no way to avoid conflicts between spouses that often end in a parent's removal or detention abroad without knowledge or against the will of another parent. Recently, we have been getting a lot of information about cases concerning mother applications that returned to Poland with children without the consent of the second parent. A spokesperson for the rights of the child, doing his duty... Go ahead and finish it, Member. [[I think it's over.]] ...first of all, he should be guided by the principle of child welfare... [[Time.]] ...and take all actions in the best interests. Question: "What have you done in matters of the Hague Convention, in which the Polish courts have agreed... Thank you very much. ...send out Polish children abroad? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u566	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice. [[Mr. Spokesman could have come in here with an anti-abortion van.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u567	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! At the very beginning, I would like to thank you very warmly for the number of interventions that you have understood under the Hague Convention. I myself addressed your spokesman in one appalling case, when the mother of four children, with a fifth pregnancy, was forced to flee from Germany to Poland together with the children, because her children were harmed - hurt by the father, harmed by the father's family. And then who? Then it was Santa Pawlak who stood up for this woman and those children and led them not to be handed over to the oppressors. [[Voice from the room: That's good.]] [[Voice from the room: I think that's normal.]] [[He did something for once.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. And I would also like to ask, in the context of... [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...the law that we adopted last year, a very important law on domestic violence - a law that was adopted on the initiative of Minister Ziobro and Minister Romanowski [[Applause]] In this case... [[At the request of the Ombudsman?]] ...and which made it possible for the perpetrators to leave the house and not the victims, in a situation where there was domestic violence: from the perspective of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, do you see an improvement in the situation of Polish families, children and victims in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u568	You're welcome. Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u569	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I'll start by saying thank you... [[For what?]] ...for the proper performance of the role of child's ombudsman. You always put the best-understood welfare of children first as the weakest, needing help and protection. First of all, I thank you for what some call ideology, and you just remind me of art. 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland as follows: Rzeczpospolita Polska provides legal protection of life for every man. Art. The 2nd Act on the Ombudsperson of the Children's Rights reminds you, too, that is, the legal acts according to which every human being is a child from conception to adulthood. In order not to be literal, I will remind you of the loud case of ten children from Izdebek. The siblings went to the maid sisters, found decent conditions and care there. Unfortunately, the offices were being held financially responsible, and the sisters were sent from door to door. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, how did this disgusting matter end for the whole public opinion? I'm asking that you speak here on this subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u570	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u571	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Instead of being a spokesperson, you've just become a political Happener. You want to protect your life, take care of homophobia... [[Come on, guys.]] ...and a transphobia that really kills. Zuza, Michał, Kacper, Viktor, Milo, Dominic and many other victims of this real problem. Where were you when Mr. Czarnek said that LGBT people aren't equal to normal people? We need to finish talking about human rights. Where were you when the LGBT-free zones were created? Tell me how many unattended parents are in the DPS and ZOLs. What did you do to prevent this from happening? [[Applause]] How many children under the age of 10 stay in institutional foster care? [[Applause]] What did you do to prevent this from happening? Why do children's homes still operate in violation of Polish law? And what did you do? Or maybe you took care of Mrs. Marty's case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She refused treatment at MMA when she was pregnant, gave birth to a FAS child because she was refused treatment for alcohol disease? Where have you been, Mr. Spokesman? You don't care about the children, [[Applause]] You only care about yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u572	Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u573	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! We just watched a pathetic show. Mr Pawlak, who should be a public servant, a spokesperson for the rights of the child, played the role of activist Kai Godek and fell into ecstasy because of the disgraceful decision of the Constitutional Court of Julia Przyłębska, which forced women to bear mortally damaged foetuses. But I have some bad news for you, Mr. Przylebska's sentence doesn't save any children, thousands of women are going abroad to stop their pregnancy, and your joy is the height of hypocrisy. You need to know that a ban on abortion doesn't eliminate her, but exposes women to the consequences of illegal abortions. If you had the same passion to deal with children born, Polish children would have a paradise here on earth. But you're not interested in them. I'm asking if you've made any intervention on the numerous students and students who have been repressed (the bell) in schools because of their participation in women's protests. Or were you at a protest to protect the kids from police repression? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u574	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u575	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Member, do you know what hypocrisy is? Hypocrisy is to tighten up abortion law, and Polish women say they can go abroad... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Who said that?]] ...if they can afford it. This is hypocrisy. Who said that? Jarosław Kaczyński said that in an interview with PAP, Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Because children must be protected abroad, too.]] ...and that's hypocrisy. Mr. Spokesman, you are not fit for this office, and this is proof of that. [[Voice from the room: You will not judge this.]] You weren't talking about children's problems, you weren't talking about interventions, you were talking about yourself. [[He was reporting his work.]] You were talking about how tough you are. You're not interested in children's opinions. And how isolated you are from children's problems, it also shows that in the pandemic year, when there are a lot of problems that children experience, you say you have prepared records. Mr. Spokesman, no one listens to records today, children don't even know what a CD is, and you've prepared CDs for them. [[Voice from the hall: My knowledge.]] They don't need it for anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you bragging about the phone number you can call? You've been proven by the editor Mazurek that you can't reach this phone number. And that's hypocrisy, too. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Voice from the hall: All Poland saw.]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Thank you very much, sir. And a specific question: What did you do, Mr. Spokesperson, with the increase in domestic violence during the pandemic? Because you didn't say a word about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u576	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u577	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Today, on the building of the Education Center in Poznań, young people attached the text of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the names of all children who committed suicide as a result of homophobia. He wants to divide us, to intimidate us, to take away the autonomy of deciding about himself. Who was that? About Przemysław Czarnek, about Przemysław Czarnek, whom young people refer to as the one they will remember as having the blood of children on their hands. Once again, Minister Czarnek a few days ago called solidarity with young people non-heteronormative insult, demoralization of society and once again, his fascism of who is and who is not normal. [[Don't segregate people through orientation. Children are children, people are people.]] Mr. Spokesman! You came here today wearing a fetal image shirt and it says he's defending life. So (The bell) when you start defending the lives of Polish children, Polish young people committing suicide because of, among others, the sting. Minister Czarnek? When will you respond appropriately to the situation and lead to the resignation of Przemysław Czarnka? When are you going to file a complaint with the Prime Minister for the work of a minister who threatens the life and emotional health of children, psychosexual development? [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. [[It's been over half a minute.]] Last sentence. When you respond to Minister Czarnek's threats... Thank you very much. ...to the real threats he wants to put to schools and school heads of terror for three years only because they want to allow anti-discrimination, anti-violence and sexual education into schools? [[You have to be able to fit in time.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u578	Thank you. Thank you very much, Member. Member, because I'm really gonna... Ladies and gentlemen, please, because I'm going to have to turn off the microphone, and I wouldn't want to do that. If I ask you to finish your sentence, please do so. [[Voice from the room: Now we have plenty of time.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not open. We've got time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's respect each other. We're dating for a minute, I'm gonna let you finish your sentence, but I really... You're welcome, my fellow Member. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u579	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! As a public servant, you should know that the campaign organizers you are promoting today as a spokesman for the rights of the child in the Sejm have spent PLN 30 million on propaganda billboards that have not helped anyone in all, have not helped at all. Nor do they want to make available documentation indicating where they got the funds, despite their responsibility. The graphic designer protests the use of her work in this campaign, but what it is for a spokesman who has in his name the right, the rights. [[She sold the law, and it's not about that.]] But maybe you're interested and maybe you'll answer the question: How many interventions have you made about children who have been subjected to violence in schools, their student rights being violated by denying them the right to participate in lessons because of overlays on women's strike profiles, participation in walks or homophobic attacks on young people? How many interventions have you taken to protect children from poverty who can't eat one warm meal? [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, yes, there are such children.]] I'm gonna need that information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u580	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u581	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been a doctor for 45 years, I've seen a lot of things and I know a lot about human life. A child is a man of conception, and abortion is the killing of a child and the killing of a man. [[Even before that. Even if we think...]] So the cause of the tragedy of our children and problems, and suicide, unfortunately, is the deep internal disintegration of these children. There is a problem of breakdown of the family and there is also a problem of ideology of children. Children need really proper care, they need love that nobody talks about or few people talk about. [[Especially your spokesperson.]] Excuse me, our side is talking. And if it wasn't for Law and Justice, this is where we'd be talking about the suicides of LGBT children. But it's LGBT that's what's causing the kids to commit suicide, this ideology. [[Applause]] It's just that. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Are you a doctor?]] This is such a deep disintegration (The Bell), which I have examples of. [[Did you graduate from any school?]] [[Voice from the room: That's the truth.]] I have a question for your spokesperson because I disagree with Mr Sosnier. Thank you for the interventions you've made. I ask for a change of law in court towards the welfare and empowerment of the child, because children in a conflict between men and women, husbands and wives, fathers and mothers are unfortunately treated subjectively and not subjectively in court. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u582	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u583	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Spokesman! When and how many times have you intervened with the office on child psychiatry? When and how many times do I have to talk about psychologists in schools that need kids? When and how many times have you been involved in reducing spending on a glass of milk for children in schools and fruit? And one last thing. Pedophilia Committee. The pedophilia committee is addressing the Vatican because it does not receive any documents from the Episcopate. In this case, an important matter, did you intervene in any way, as a spokesperson for children's rights, so that this Episcopate... [[But these children are already born, then why?]] ...the individual dioceses handed over the cases that were taken in 2002 and 2020 so that there would be no need to go to the Vatican in this case? These are important things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if you have a T-shirt like that today, you should be working with the pedophilia committee every day. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u584	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u585	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The Ombudsman takes action to protect the child from violence, cruelty and other mistreatment. He's a guardian of the rights of the child. Children with disabilities are particularly concerned. It's a theory. In practice, the spokesperson says: spanking doesn't leave a big trace, spanking doesn't kill, spanking isn't beating, and sexual educators give pills or drugs to change their children's sexes. Just a shock, ladies and gentlemen. Meanwhile, in Poland the number of suicide attempts among children and young people is increasing avalanchely. 5164, of which, unfortunately, 107 effective cases. What are you doing in this regard? I think he's making a record, like he told us today, so the kids won't get bored. [[The voice from the hall: With Kukiz let him give it.]] What have you done, Mr. Spokesperson, for children with disabilities in terms of vaccination? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What have you done in terms of Children's psychiatry in Lublin Voivodeship? Because as far as I know, nothing. Polish children don't have a spokesperson today. Polish children have a fanatic today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u586	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u587	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! I have a very substantive question for you, I think. I'd like to ask you what your position is on the vaccination of children. I'm asking for mandatory vaccinations. I'm asking if you're in contact with the Health Minister on vaccination against COVID children under the age of 18, whether you have knowledge of scientific evidence, whether these children should be vaccinated in your opinion or not, whether they should be vaccinated with parental consent, or whether they should decide for themselves. Vaccines for HPV - Is there any opinion of you on this? I would very much like to know what your views on this subject are. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u588	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u589	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I wanted to ask - there are many very important questions here - one more important thing that is important for young people. It's about education. Unfortunately, today we have a very ideological minister of education, Minister Czarnek. [[Normal's not an ideology.]] I am so concerned that these actions which he is undertaking will result in young people, instead of getting tools, in normal education - yes, normal education useful in life, which will later help them to realize their dreams - receiving education that will only suit the needs of this part of the House. In this context, what kind of action did you take to actually deal with those who have competence in the Ministry of Education and not just the political mandate of the current majority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u590	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, Child Rights Officer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u591	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! [[And who let you in that shirt?]] [[That's what hate is.]] Thank you very much for these substantive comments, because there were very many substantive comments, especially in the speeches of the clubs of the Polish Coalition, the Confederation. I also thank the United Right for these substantive comments. About some of the questions... Mr Sterczewski - I was even about to commend you, but at the end it worked out, so this is the end of my discussion on the subject. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't judge us.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Now, on the other hand, the most important things, summing up which may also connect some of you, because there are topics that connect, as I said, in matters of children. Parental alienation cases - there are different views on these subjects. I pledge that in the Senate with Senator Kwiatkowski and Pociej I will make conversations so that this subject of alienation can be worked out somehow. The proposal for immediate and family support - it seems that two years ago, Mr Szłapka said at the committee meeting that you have good projects. There was such a statement, I believe, from the Member's side. So there are those that connect. I hope you put them into practice. Thank you for that. You have repeatedly and in various ways raised the issue of child psychiatry. There were a whole lot of speeches by the Ombudsman, but there are two main issues. First of all, I know it's hard for some people to get the name of Minister Szumowski through their throats, but it was during his term of office that a great reform of child psychiatry began. Thank you very much for that. Many, many years of neglect have led to the fact that we actually have a collapse, because there are 300 or less than 400 doctors of children's psychiatrists in Poland. It shouldn't be like that. On the other hand, Minister Szumowski started a reform of child psychiatry. And thank you for that. [[And he didn't.]] As for psychiatry... He didn't finish, because the psychiatrist education lasts a few years. These are neglects from previous years, and now they're being made up for. Of course, it's bad that this has come to a very difficult period of pandemics. This is obviously - I have also written about this and I have talked about it many times - the topic to be improved as soon as possible, because it cannot be that for 22 thousand. There are 11,000 schools. school psychologists. This can't be right. It's got to be as broad as possible since September. I've offered you ideas. Many disadvantaged aid centres, which are financed, inter alia, From the Justice Fund... Those psychologists and educators who work there, help the victims of crime, should also be and apply to schools, to wards, mayors, to help in schools, as much as possible now as possible. And these centres are several hundred in Poland thanks to the Justice Fund, and for that, I thank the Minister of Justice. Another name that is hard to pass through many throats or only in a negative sense, Minister Czarnek and the education system in this difficult year. It is thanks to Mr Czarnko that the basis of the programme has been cut off at this most difficult time so that children and young people can, although in this respect, survive this difficult period and thank you very much to the Minister, Prof. Przemysław Czarnko. Back to psychiatry, ladies and gentlemen. There were questions about what the spokesperson did, among others. in this case. I'll remind you last year - it's about to be an even year. For 3 months together with one of the largest shops in the world - I will mention, because this is, you can say, a business responsibility - IKEA we have delivered equipment worth over PLN 2 million to all psychiatric departments in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: But it was IKEA who did it, not the spokesperson.]] The Ordinators were surprised that there is such activity that you can choose for yourself what children need: mattresses, equipment, everything. And what did it turn out to be? But which TV gave you information about it? Only Polish Television, no one else gave this information. So in support of psychiatry, a reminder of how children already need to be helped in school, at this most difficult time - by educators, teachers who knew children during the pre-pandemic period and may know where the problems were. That's where the biggest help should be. Psychiatric assistance, support for the phone of trust - thank you to the Member for quoting this issue, because it is indeed necessary to repeat this... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Adamczyk reminded you of this.]] ... 800 121 212. Let's promote this phone. Let's promote this phone, like a lot of others I'm talking about. Now let's get to the T-shirt. Ladies and gentlemen, heart. [[Did you buy it for yours or did you buy it for yours?]] Today I thought all parliamentarians had great hearts. There were two hearts in this room - one heart had Mrs Hartwich with a supposed rainbow and that heart. I thought that heart didn't rule it out, but it turns out that it doesn't. [[Applause]] [[Tell me what you did, not what you're wearing.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Is this really the way it is, or should we be ashamed that we are questioning the law that applies in Poland? A few days ago, Mr Kierwiński asked for this on the air of one radio to apply only Polish law. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's apply the Polish law. [[Applause]] [[Come on, man, talk about clothes and yourself. Talk about the kids.]] I don't take care of myself. I take care of the kids. Day after day we take care of the children. And let's go, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: For two minutes, you talk about your shirt...]] Thank you very much to all my colleagues, because 100 employees of the Office of the Ombudsman are advocates of the rights of the child. The ombudsmen of the rights of the child are also all those who, every day, in silence, in foster families, about which I am about to speak, especially Mr Szczerbie, Mrs Rosie, hug abandoned children or left behind, affected by violence, about which they are all the ombudsmen of the rights of the child in a moment. Everyone should be awarded an ombudsman. About the anti-violence bill. Few people know that in the Ministry of Justice, among others. I have worked on this bill with Minister Romanowski and for Minister Ziobra, she has entered into force for children and protects children. [[You didn't do anything about it, we do it.]] These texts, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, 24 hours ago, when you were working here, I got, among others. Police headquarters, and I'm still getting it. It's from the north. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 23.25 A doctor on duty at a children's hospital in one city reported that he had been brought to the facility by an ambulance with his mother in a heavy state of 2 months Oscar. The infant was diagnosed with a massive subdural hematoma over the frontal, parietal, occipital, temporal left lobe, brain tissue, skull fracture on the left side. The baby's in a coma. Severe condition, stable. The child's father Sebastian was detained - three booze shots, mother sober. I have these cases every day, just because of the anti-violence bill that you put together, because you can protect children and detect these crimes. This is a real tool - anti-violence law, not various ideological conventions or other kinds of legislation that have no meaning. [[Doesn't the phone line matter? The shelters don't matter?]] These are tough rules also introduced by the Ombudsman who protects children. The children of Izdebek. There was a specific question from the Member concerning the support of ten children who fell victim to a paedophile two years ago, three years ago almost received after such a cruel crime. Thanks to the spokesperson for the rights of the child - again I, I know, but that's what I'm here to protect the children because no one stood up for them - the court didn't separate the ten because there was a plan to separate them. Thanks to my appeal, the kids are together, only they didn't get the money. All the time, for 10 months, ten children -- that's almost 4,000. zł per child per month - they took care of the sisters, whom I thank very warmly. [[You didn't get the money for this family?]] After many interventions and letters from the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, this money was transferred and in May the old age signed a contract, the children will have a maintenance until they are adults. I keep an eye on the case all the time. How many years of prison did you get for doing things on your children? Nine years, I think. So I'm probably gonna file a cassation against that sentence so that the punishment is also dissuasive for the future, because such mild punishments for such brutal crimes against children are unacceptable. Here's another thing. Part of the questions, ladies and gentlemen, concerned, in particular in the field of education, support for children in the early pandemic period. Well, one of my first speeches during this period was to support children in the use of funds that were directed to the mobs, mayors, presidents, almost PLN 300 million, because they did not know how to spend them, that they had to go to shops immediately and buy computers and routers for children. From my office more than 50 computers were transferred in the first two weeks directly to children who needed it in rural areas. This is real help as much as the spokesperson could have done, and in other cases, he made sure that the money wasn't missing. And, of course, it's just that you can't say fully... This is a problem across Europe because we met with child rights attorneys from all over Europe, three or four weeks ago... [[Is that what you found time for?]] ...and everyone first found that they were unable to determine how many children did not take part in remote lessons. Ladies and gentlemen! Regarding violence, about support for child psychiatry, about support for fathers and families, because it is not only about alienation of fathers, but about family disputes, which unfortunately digest Polish families and children... Family matters in Polish courts are 0.5 million each year, i.e. at least 0.5 million children, it is a dispute between parents. This baby crying when he sees his parents, whether it's a marriage or not, arguing about a child or playing a child, that's a shame, and that's a great harm to the child. [[And what did you do to speed things up?]] (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The immediate family information that I have been seeking for 3 years, if it enters into force, will immediately relieve the courts of 60 thousand. cases per year. An immediate improvement, but unfortunately you have not yet passed these rules and I am seeking it, and I ask you to do so... [[To the president, to the president.]] ...that these regulations should soon be adopted. At the same time, I would like to thank the Left that in March she recently cut herself out of the immediate maintenance project with an algorithm, from this project two years ago... and reported this project. Thank you very much. I thanked the media very much for this too. If there's anything we can do, I'd like it to be the end of the year today, because it's June 25th, and I'm asking that we at least do it together and wish our children a happy, peaceful, stress-free holiday so that parents and carers can rest without stress during this time, because we certainly don't need stress from children. This is the most important wish for all our children. I'm asking you to do this together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u592	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u593	Mr. Spokesman! Recently, you have responded to one of your fellow Members on the Committee for Foreign Affairs. pedophilia: Dear Member, if it weren't for me, the committee couldn't start working. Called up, but penniless for business. I even gave them computers and desks! Are you unhappy that the committee is still working? The case concerned opposition to the implementation of the budget of the Ombudsperson for the year 2020 in the Social Policy Committee on the transfer of funds from the RPD budget to the RPD Committee on Children's Rights. Pedophilia. Therefore, I ask you to answer: If this committee is already funded by the RPD, do you supervise its work? What issues have been identified so far? What actions have you taken on the basis of or following the findings of the Panel's work. Pedophilia?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u594	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for the comprehensive, well prepared, substantive report on the Ombudsman's activities. I would like to ask you to clarify: Are the teachers of the classes at school also a threat to children, as the opposition say, as expressed in the joint committee meeting? Of course, I strongly disagree with that. Is it true that only TV Poland has supported the information campaign of the phone trust and internet chat, from which children can use tools 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u595	Women's sports, women's sports. According to the material that I had the pleasure of presenting during the debate, women in sport - breaking barriers and discrimination is wrong and even very bad. Sport is widespread and therefore there is no discrimination in sport based on sex. Mr. Spokesman! What measures have you taken to combat discrimination in sports based on sex, to combat violence, harassment, sexual abuse? What have you done to ensure that sports participants, especially girls, women, are safe in sports? Women's sport requires immediate action to ensure equality at all levels and levels. What action did you take to protect girls, women from vulgar, unworthy behavior, discreditation, mobbing? In addition, I ask: What did you do to improve the situation of children in schools? As an athlete, I would like to draw your attention to physical education. The reform of education carried out by the PiS led to the return to primary schools of classes VII and VIII. The sports infrastructure of Polish schools has not been significantly expanded. Neither has the education subsidy increased. And gym classes are held in groups of at least 25 people. In one gym at the same time, the lessons have a class of 2 and 3 at the same time, i.e. there are 50 and 75 children in a small room. You can't do an effective WF lesson in such a large group on such a small area. The mobility is falling, overweight and obesity is increasing. I ask: How many schools in Poland have WF in common? What did you do to change that to make your gym class attractive and effective? How many classes from the first level of education - class I-III - have access to the gym once, twice, three times a week? What did you do to counteract overweight and obesity? The problem of obesity, overweight, worsening overall mobility among children and young people is growing. What did you do? What kind of action did you take? Please respond in writing. [[Some of the Members get up, the Members give flowers to the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child]] [[I state that the Sejm has heard information about the activities of the Ombudsman for the year 2020, together with comments on the state of compliance...]] [[The voice from the hall: Why, has he finished his term of office?]] [[...child rights in Poland.]] [[I'd like a written reply.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Can you ask for a written answer to all those questions that you have not answered? Not a word about Asperger, why he's supporting a private foundation...]] [[I ask you, sir, to answer these questions that you have written down, and there is no answer to them, to answer them in writing. Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: I'll have it in writing, too.]] [[Dear Marshal! I've written down all the questions, including the ones I asked for. Thank you very much.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General about the actions taken by the prosecutor's office in the period from 4 March 2016 in order to issue an order refusing to investigate or investigate; redemption of an investigation or investigation; withdrawal of an indictment; referral to the court of application referred to in Article. 5 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Act - Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on the Rights of Patient and Ombudsperson of Patients (Journal of Laws). from 2016 poz. 1070) in all cases in which Daniel Obajtek was suspected or accused - the current President of the Polish oil company ORLEN S.A.]] [[I'd like the first Deputy Attorney General, national prosecutor, Mr. Bogdan Święczkowski, to present the information.]] [[You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u596	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm extremely... I'm extremely surprised, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have to give you information about this case again, because... [[That's the job.]] ...in writing, as well as before the High Sejm, I performed and presented information on the subject. However, it is of course extremely pleasant to see and exchange views with you. [[We'd like to say to each other.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is one criminal procedure, which was conducted under different signatures and numbers, so I will start from the beginning. On 24 February 2012, no 5D/3/2012, the District Prosecutor's Office in Ostrów Wielkopolski opened an investigation into the extortion of the armed robbery to the detriment of Artur M. and Michał Ś. The basis for initiating the investigation was the materials collected by the Central Bureau of Investigation of the Management Board in Łódź. During this investigation, Maciej C. was accused of committing the offence referred to in Article. § 258 (3), i.e. directing in 2011 and 2012 in Zduńska Wola and other localities in the country an organized criminal group consisting of Jerzy R., Robert J. and Krzysztof M., aimed at committing violent crimes and threats of unlawful extortion of funds for the recovery of claims, actual and apparent. It was also alleged to have committed 15 offences referred to in Article. 282 Penal Code, Art. 286 § 1 of the Penal Code and Art. 189 § 1 of the Criminal Code. The allegations of participation in a criminal group led by Maciej C. and committing a series of crimes against property and freedom were heard by Robert J., Jerzy R. and Krzysztof M. In the course of this investigation, Daniel Obajtek also heard the charge of committing three crimes. I would like to stress that Daniel Obajtek did not have the alleged participation in an organised criminal group. The above-mentioned Daniel Objtwa prosecutor has accused him of committing an art crime. 228 § 1 of the Criminal Code, i.e. the adoption in 2010 of an amount of 50,000 in connection with the performance of the public office of the municipality of Pcim. PLN in exchange for the promise to conclude a contract for the development and execution of projects for the construction of sewage networks for the municipalities of Pcim, Lubień and Tokarnia and two crimes of fraud in the years 2003-2004 to the detriment of Elektroplast for a total amount of about 800 thousand. PLN and the charge related to the misappropriation of objects worth around 600 000 in 2003 and 2004. to the detriment of Aluplast and the acquisition of these items. In the course of the investigation, Daniel Obajtka was detained on 15 April 2013. On the following day, on 16 April, the above-mentioned charge of committing an offence was declared. § 228 § 1 of the Criminal Code. The suspect did not confess to the alleged act and made extensive explanations. The prosecutor applied to the court for a provisional arrest against Daniel Obajtka. By decision of 17 April 2013, the District Court of Ostrów Wielkopolski failed to take into account the prosecutor's request, stating that the evidence collected does not permit the assumption that there is a high likelihood of a suspect committing the alleged act. The court pointed to numerous gaps in the evidence. The court also ordered the immediate release of Daniel Obajtek. This was released on 17 April 2013. In the absence of a general indication, i.e. the absence of evidence indicating a high probability of committing an alleged act, until the end of the investigation against Daniel Obejtka, the prosecutor did not take any preventive measures. On 28 October 2013, the District Prosecutor's Office in Ostrów Wielkopolski sent an indictment file against Maciej C. and seven other suspects to the District Court in Sieradz after the investigation was closed. At the stage of legal proceedings for the prosecution in the case of the accused Daniel Obajtek and others before the District Court in Sieradz, the regional prosecutor in Łódź appointed the District Prosecutor's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski. In the course of its judicial proceedings prior to the commencement of the judicial line, the prosecutor sent a request for convictions against Maciej C., Robert J. and Krzysztof M. by the Judgments of the District Court of Sieradz of 19 and 20 December 2014 and of 13 January 2015. Maciej C., Robert J. and Krzysztof M. were found guilty of committing the alleged acts. The appeal against the above judgment of the District Court in Sieradz was filed by the Attorney General of Andrzej Seremet by letter of 15 May 2015. The Supreme Court composed of Tomasz Grzegorczyk, Małgorzata Gierszon, Michał Laskowski as rapporteur, taking into account the cassation delivered by the Attorney General, by judgment of 6 August 2015, sygn. Act II of KK 142/2015 repealed the judgment of the District Court of Sieradz under appeal and referred the case to that court for review. The Supreme Court held that the judgment had been delivered as a result of a gross violation of the procedural law by the District Court of Sieradz by taking into account the prosecutor's request for a fine agreed with the defendants lodged almost one year after the end of the preliminary investigation. On 9 August 2016, Defender Daniel Obajtka filed a request in the District Attorney's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski for referral to the District Court in Sieradz, where under number II K 52/2013 there was a criminal case against Daniel Obajtka and others, requesting that the case be referred to the prosecutor in order to supplement the investigation, indicating the need to carry out numerous evidence activities, in particular to secure financial and accounting records and obtain expert advice. Deputy District Attorney in Piotrków Trybunalski, i.e. not District Attorney in Piotrków Trybunalski, sharing the legitimacy of the application of Defender Daniel Obajtka on 2 September 2016, acting on the basis of the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Act - Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients, addressed to the District Court of Sieradz a request to refer the case to the prosecutor to complete the investigation. The explanatory memorandum of the proposal states that it is justified in view of the existence of material deficiencies in the preparatory procedure which prevent a proper settlement within a reasonable period of time. It was found that the resolution of the identified deficiencies in the jurisdiction proceedings would be at least significantly impeded. It also pointed to the need to establish the terms of reference, the powers of Daniel Obajtka as the manager of Elektroplast during the period covered by the charge of the indictment, the determination of the quantity actually delivered to the above mentioned. companies of the commodity in the form of granules and the marketing of products produced from it. The prosecutor also pointed out the need to complete the investigation by carrying out a number of very important evidence activities in the form of interrogation of many witnesses, securing financial and accounting records that have not yet been secured, Elektroplast, familiarising himself with court files, and determining whether Daniel Obajtek had a real opportunity to influence the results of the tendering procedure. By order of 11 October 2016, the District Court in Sieradz, having regard to the request of the Deputy District Prosecutor in Piotrków Trybunalski, handed over the criminal case of Daniel Obajtka and seven other defendants to the District Prosecutor in Piotrków Trybunalski to complete the investigation. In the explanatory memorandum of the order, the court argued that, after examining the case file, it could indeed be argued that the investigation of disclosure, including to a large extent after referring the case to the court, should be supplemented by new, relevant circumstances and the need to seek new evidence. Then, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 January 2017, the defender of suspect Daniel Obajtko asked me to refer the case from the District Attorney's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski against Daniel Obajtki and others according to the local property to Kraków. By order of 15 February 2017, the investigation of the same prosecutor's office excluded materials against Daniel Obajtwa and four other suspects. The basis for such a decision was the need to carry out additional and extensive evidence activities in the disabled thread. Since 2 March 2017, by my decision, i.e. the national prosecutor, this investigation against Daniel Obajtki and four other suspects has been transferred to the best unit, the highest in the Polish prosecutor's office, and thus to the Małopolska Department of the Local Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Krakow, where it was registered under the signature of PK IV WZ Ds. 10/2017. In the course of the investigation, following the court's orders to return the case to the prosecutor's office for the addition of evidence, among others. By re-interviewing suspects, interrogating dozens of witnesses and securing appropriate documentation, by order of 9 June 2017, a prosecutor from the Małopolska Department of the Local Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Krakow discontinued the entire investigation of PK IV WZ Ds. 10/2013: as regards suspected Daniel Obejtek for an act under Article. 228 § 1 of the Penal Code, or corruption - in the absence of sufficient data to justify the suspicion of committing an act... [[Lex Obajtek. Change of law.]] ...as regards the offence of fraud in respect of property of a significant value of at least PLN 334 170 - in view of the finding that the act does not contain the marks of a prohibited act, as well as in respect of the offence of a significant value of at least PLN 1 075 847 62 - also in view of the finding that the act does not contain the marks of a prohibited act. The complaint, ladies and gentlemen, was brought by a representative of the injured company Elektroplast and by a decision of 29 December 2017 by the District Court in Krakow, after the decision to terminate the investigation, by order of the prosecutor. The Court of First Instance found that the prosecutor meticulously, diligently and reliably conducted evidence proceedings by carrying out a comprehensive and detailed assessment of the evidence. The Court of First Instance accepted in its entirety the factual and legal assessment carried out by the prosecutor, indicating that the complainant's allegations were unfounded. In view of such a decision of the district court in Krakow, the decision to terminate the investigation is final. However, despite... [[It'll be resumed, it will be.]] It can't be resumed. [[It will be because there will be new evidence.]] Despite... maybe otherwise: as a result of various types of information from the state, as a result of various types of information and requests, as well as interpellations and enquiries by the prosecutors of the Department of Criminality of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw, they re-examined the file of this procedure. The prosecutor took note of these materials from March to April 2021. After examining the files of the investigation, the prosecutor stated that the termination of the investigation was correct and that there were no new circumstances that would in any way allow the decision to be touched. I would also like to inform you that if the investigation against a person is terminated and one year has elapsed since the termination of this investigation, there is no legal possibility to resume or resume this proceeding. [[All you have to do is make a new bill. A new bill will be made.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's all I had to say about this procedure, because that's what your request for information was about. [[Your way, we'll make a new bill for one night.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u597	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Krzysztof July, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u598	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicant! You wanted it, you got it. [[38 properties, poor thing.]] Legal material has been presented and you'd like to say that enough and that's it. But in my opinion, since this case is here for a parliamentary debate, it needs to be continued, and I will try to do so. This material, which was presented today by the national prosecutor, is indisputable, because that is not only the decision of the prosecution, which you will say is government-dependent, but its decision has been approved by a court which, according to various puzzles, depends more on you than on us. [[Yeah, yeah, and then he gets promoted...]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there would never have been this debate in the Seym if it hadn't been for the Gazeta Wyborcza Gazeta, who once again is hurting Poland, and politicians have come into all this. It was a peacock because this material, which was published, was based on knowledge from a man who was convicted of false testimony, which he was - you can say - a criminal, because there were other sentences on him. If politicians, with that knowledge, are in this debate, that's it. It's just a scandal. The question is, what is it really about opposition politicians? To me, it's incomprehensible. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] Today I'm not going to be Daniel Obajtka's attorney, because Daniel Obajtek has a great defense of his own. [[The real estate champion.]] He defended himself through various activities, among others, although he was not obliged to do so, he presented declarations of property. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[You're the ones who defended him. After all, you voted for it.]] He was also very effective in defending himself against the justice system. But you did not mean to humiliate Daniel Obajtek, but only to take care of the interests of those who so far managed. fuel companies and present in defence of non-Polish interests. It is really about the Gdańsk oligarchy, it is about the interests of those who want to harm Poland, looking at it from the point of view of other countries. [[Swedes in particular.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Daniel Obajtek, as president of an important energy company, had very high achievements. That's what bothered you. [[Voice from the hall: How fit for a private school graduate...]] [[How many parcels does he have...]] The truth is, if we are talking about Orlen: in your governments, the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, the profit was 2.9 billion PLN. Eight years of your rule. 5 years of rule by Daniel Obietka - 26.2 billion PLN. [[Voice from the hall: But he doesn't rule for five years.]] [[And 14 billion in debt.]] And 2020 was a profitable year during the crisis - 3.5 billions. Not much? [[Voice from the room: Always not enough.]] [[But you know he's been in Orlena since 2018?]] Show me a better score. Show him better activity. It is the expansion of this group to other countries: Lithuania, Germany, Czechoslovakia, has been, so the Czech Republic and Slovakia today as separate countries. [[Yeah, Czechoslovakia.]] [[GDR.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it bothers you very much. [[Czechoslovakia.]] Yeah, there used to be an East German, and you guys really miss him. Ladies and gentlemen, today I encourage you to recognise in your Polish policy the right state, the right state of Polish enterprises. [[Voice from the room: Briefly. How much gas is there?]] I know that bothers you very much, especially the merger of Orlen with Lotus. [[Voice from the hall: Of course, because the Russians will get rich.]] And it's an incredible thing. No one else but Daniel Obajtek as CEO wants to build a multi-concert. [[Daniel didn't...]] One that will stand at the height of the task in difficult times when it comes to fighting energy for cheap, Polish, good energy. [[The fuel for paper turns.]] And I'm so convinced that Orlen's leadership is a well-managed man, it's not in your mind (the bell), it bothers you very much, and that's all that needs to be hurt. I move that the High Sejm accept the information of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, in this case requested by the applicant. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There's no minister. We can't accept it because the minister isn't here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u599	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u600	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! It wasn't the information we were waiting for. [[Applause]] The High Chamber, putting today's information on the agenda, expected reliable information based on facts, and we heard two speeches in the interests of Daniel Obajtka. So I'm going to try to do part of your service and quote everything that is precisely described in the indictment by the District Attorney's Office in Ostrów Wielkopolski to the court in Sieradz. There we have described practically everything and the entire participation of the criminal group, whose Daniel Obajtek was a very important link. In this story we have everything: bribes, envelopes, actions to the detriment of the company, fictional invoices, and Daniel Obajtek appears everywhere. In this story, we also have information about who was the real CEO of Daniel Obajtek. And to the surprise of the right-wing politicians, it was probably not Jarosław Kaczyński. The real CEO was Maciej C., a farmer, a debt collector, accused of running an organized crime group, extortion and robbery, and illegal business with Obitek. A ruthless man. And what did Obietek do? According to investigators, Obajtek was bribed by the president, and before that he was cheating with the company Elektroplast. He got five bucks for his uncle. This money was transferred to Jerzy R. in the parking lot in front of the Staropolska restaurant in Wojkowice Kościelne. Both of them and the President were involved in a common criminal investigation involving the fraud of significant amounts of money related to fictional deliveries of so-called "fictitious" supplies. Elektroplast granulate to the detriment of the company in Strza. For this reason, Daniel Obajtek earned nearly 800,000. zł. We know that Obietek over-delivered by 25%, approved fictional invoices. In total, Elektroplast paid for 141 t of raw material that wasn't there. As far as profit is concerned, Daniel Obajtka's share had a fixed rate of half the amount of fictional, virtual supplies and similarly half of the surplus added to real supplies. In addition, Daniel Obajtek added 40 gr per kg of goods. This commission was based on the fact that he could simply buy somewhere else. It's all the testimony that's been filed in the indictment, and it's available. And here it is worth to return to Daniel Obajtka's estate, because perhaps the prosecution has at least partially established additional sources of income for Daniel Obajtka, and I will remind you that in 2014 Daniel Obajtek was already a very rich man. He owned over a 3-hectare farm in the Guardians, plot in the cellar, Łężkowice, Sasin, Kopalin and Lanckoron... [[Voice from the room: Sasin?]] ...worth more than 0.5 million, two apartments in Myślenice, three houses in the Guardian, Sasin and then built a palace in Łężkowice, four holiday houses in Kopalin, 10% shares in ERG Bieruń-Folie sp. z o.o. purchased in 2012 for 260 thousand zł. Besides, a similar investment was made by Daniel Obajtka's mother, who was earning 1700 PLN at the time. [[A voice from the room: Coincidence?]] [[Midas.]] This multimillion-dollar estate couldn't be financed from a local salary, and we all know it, and you know it, too. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So where did Daniel Obajtek get the money? It was the service's job to explain it all. And this is not the end, because they invested a brother, a mother, a father, and even a 20-year-old brother-in-law, who in 2003 bought a 28-year-old plot from the municipality for 102 thousand. zł. [[Voice from the hall: A was unemployed.]] And what did he do? After a year, Daniel Obajtek gave this parcel on the way of a donation to a completely foreign person, who was accidentally Daniel Obajtka's father, and Daniel Obajtek himself had an unlimited loan on this plot for life. Coincidence? I don't think so. There are much more similar operations where the wealth was wandering along the family line. It's a merry-go-round. The CBA found irregularities. Mr. District Attorney didn't say a word about it at all. Daniel Obajtek didn't show any holiday homes, show no loans, lower his income, hide his assets. Why didn't you say a word about it? Why didn't the D.A.'s office ever take advantage of the CBA notice and investigate this case? [[Applause]] The question is: What did PiS do? Well, PiS paved the way for Daniel Obajtkowi to the most important functions in the country, changing the law and involving the entire state apparatus. Instead of explaining it, you covered it up. [[Applause]] And now a few words about what's going on... But you must leave now, sir. The last few seconds. In the whole matter, the politicians of PiS - Commissioner of the European Union for Agriculture Janusz Wojciechowski, three senators: Wojciechowski, Jackowski, Dobkowski, Prosecutor of... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ... District Prosecutor's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski Magdalena Witko, privately married to former Member of PiS and President Tomaszow Mazowiecki. She's the one who dropped the indictment from the courthouse. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time!]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] The President is a close associate of Janusz Wojciechowski. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time!]] The PiS Members have amended the bill so that the indictment can be withdrawn from the court. That wasn't the case before, only the court had the right to return the indictment in order to complete it, and you dropped the indictment to cover it up. But you're not gonna make it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Well, look, that's the truth.]] But if you'll excuse me, sir. What were the D.A.'s office doing on this case? I won't even mention Kaczynski. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder what he's got on you guys that you're defending him like that. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time!]] What does he have on you that you're defending him like that? Thank you very much, sir. You're acting like an organized group. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am filing a motion to reject the information of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u601	Thank you very much. I would very much ask you not to raise your voice to me. Thank you very much. [[It's worth listening to, that's the truth.]] You're welcome, Mr... [[Your Marshal, but don't allow time to be dragged.]] But, sir, I allow Members to both... [[Why?]] Mr President, Members of the Law and Justice have also been able to finish their statements today. I allow Members to finish their speeches for up to 1 minute. I'd like it to be calm and calm today. I'm sitting here till morning, so I'd really like to hear your comments. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u602	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After listening to the national prosecutor, we can tell that the raven's raven won't derail the eye. This raven mentality has its next appearances and let me give you three examples here. President Andrzej Duda made use of this term in November 2015 although it was actually more accurate: he exercised the right of grace in relation to Minister Kaminski and Minister Wąsik. So immediately after his election as president, he used his powers for party purposes. Six months later, because in June 2016, Law and Justice, of which you did not mention, immediately after winning the elections, introduces a law, whose article. 5 gives an opportunity, or even requires the court to withdraw the indictment at the request of the prosecution. The first strange arrangement of fate is the indictment of Daniel Obajtek - here on the pretext of supplementing the material in the ongoing investigation. Then under the cover of the so-called. The PiS MEPs proposed a change in the legislation that was to bear the criminal responsibility of officials who violated their duties - see Minister Sasin here. Does that surprise us? I don't think so. You gotta admit, you've got a lot of momentum in your cover, and nothing's gonna stop you, not even writing a bill on purpose. Returning to Mr.Daniel Obajtek - you could say: Mr.Daniel Everything I Can Obajtka - it is worth asking why and who cared so much and who insisted on the prosecution that the proceedings concerning Obajtka were taken away from the District Prosecutor's Office in Ostrów Wielkopolski and handed over to prosecutors from Piotrków Trybunalski, and then even further, who already in September 2016, so literally moments after the entry into force of the specific article. 5... [[Lex Obajtek.]] ...lex Obajtek, filed a motion to withdraw the indictment from the court and hand it back to the prosecutor's office. As they claimed, it was necessary to supplement the evidence. And by chance, in addition to the evidence, so far accused of cooperating with organized crime group Daniel Obajtek in June 2017 no longer appears in this particular case, which was brought to court. How the prosecution figured out, because you're not so perfect, that a complaint about withdrawing the case could also be brought, among other things. In November 2016, one of the eight other defendants, or the defendant's aid prosecutor, adopted a modification of the special provision, which in a strange way eliminated the possibility of filing a complaint for the withdrawal of the indictment from the court. Is that a coincidence? I don't think so. It's worth it from here. So ask the question, how many more cases did the prosecution use art. Five specials after Daniel Obajtka? Who's Daniel Obajtek that you do that for him? What were the circumstances that led to the prosecution's disappearance of Obejtek's story? Did Minister Ziobro supervise the case directly, or did he give direct instructions on the matter? Isn't it the case that under the bill, this particular legislation was signed by people whose families were employed in Orlena in gratitude? It is a description of the activities of an organized group, an organized group using power to cover up, sweep under the carpet, acquittal and surrounded by a protective umbrella of PiS guys, smart guys and combinators who in a democratic state of law would be condemned and sat for many years. Continuing Obejtek's theme, it is also worth noting that when an organized group holding power, called by many of the United Right, jumped at each other's throats in the fight for influence and money, they came to light. Obejtka tapes mentioned here, exposing its true face and revealing its huge wealth, acquired under at least obscure natural circumstances. But as the president of PiS himself said, the said Obejtek has something that God gives, and which is difficult to define. I do not know if God gives this, but it is certainly described in the ten messages of God, or Decalogue. Here with special attention I recommend point 7 of the same Decalogue. You've turned the state into a pathological political system (the bell) and an economic one. You've created a clip that doesn't trust each other, but you're protecting your dark interests, and it's not necessary in an honest way. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] He'll come to pay for it. I know my hand washes. And in the end, Mrs. Marshal, I wanted to - there is no President of Mr. Obajtek - as a placczanin to tell him that the próccczans put up such a big, nice banner: cancer for Płock, money for Kraków. You've forgotten something that is the social responsibility of business, building relationships with the local community. And instead of helping us in Płock for the fact that we have an establishment that is bothersome for us, which causes and increases the incidence of cancer, mainly in women, you give money to Krakow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u603	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u604	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! The analysis of the last few years of service proceedings, the prosecution's case against a kind of phenomenon, repeatedly praised by the leader of the government camp in Poland today, proves the unmistakably one thing: that in the future this prosecutor's office, these services, must be as far away from politics as possible, from politicians, from the current influence of politicians on these services, because the analysis of the whole matter, step by step, shows how pathetic it is that these institutions are confused with current policies. With all due respect, Mr. District Attorney, how much time you haven't spent here to translate the actions of your subordinates, the case seems extremely suspicious from a distance. Looking at the next steps of the institution under your authority, you can see clearly how untouchable Mr Daniel Obajtek is today in Poland under the rule of law and justice. There's a lot of confusion, there's a lot of crazy translations about it, and there's clear evidence showing how he made a joke about the rules that he should follow when it comes to transparency, transparency about the wealth he collected and the ways in which he collected it. This is an amazing thing, a thing that must also look forward to explaining in the future. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland also requests that this information be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u605	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u606	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! High Izbo! It is characteristic: it is the middle of the night, almost 25 minutes after hours. 1... [[Both of you are asleep.]] [[He's still asleep, but at about an hour. Six knocks.]] ...and the PiS is handling their darkest cases. I think that this result of the vote and the fact that this point is even on the schedule is a miracle, one of the many miracles concerning Daniel Obajtek. The second miracle is a bravado speech, Mr. District Attorney: nothing happened, Poles, nothing happened. But we see many events that, without exaggeration, can be called miracles, ranging from the surprising decisions of the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the incredible favor of party power. Some of these stories for an ordinary citizen would end in a tough meeting with the justice system, but not in this case. So either we believe in miracles and miraculous transformations of evidence, or it's behind all of this full of shoes and political arrogance, a dark arrangement guaranteeing impunity. Either Daniel Obajtek, who was born under a happy star, is protected by this star, or a black protective umbrella was rolled over him. If it has been mapped out, this black umbrella guarantees impunity and that the organized political group behind all of this can take advantage of the state's assets in peace. But we're asking your D.A. today about these miracles. It's a news story. Year 2013, Daniel Obajtek detained by the Central Bureau of Police Investigation. He heard the charge of working with the president's organized crime group. Mr. Daniel Obajtek likes the CEOs. It was about cheating, cheating, and taking a bribe. The D.A.'s office is sending an indictment to the court. It's been years. The year is coming 2016, Law and Justice amends the Code of Criminal Procedure in such a way as to be able to cancel proceedings in cases which have been referred to the court. It's a wonderful arrangement for fate that allows the D.A.'s office to extract the file from the court, and then the D.A.'s attorneys drop the case at the request of the defense. It's all blowing up in the air. How can you not believe in miracles? Mr. District Attorney! Did the government really change the rules in such a way that the accused of serious crimes could avoid conviction? Is it true that exactly one month after the law came into force, the prosecution withdrew the indictment of Daniel Obajtek from the court? And, Mr. District Attorney, the most important question is: How many such miracles were there in Poland? And one more question: Does it not seem strange to the prosecutor that more than 98% of criminal cases are being prosecuted, and in this case the prosecution filed an indictment, then dropped him and dropped the case? And this is the case in the case of the ex-law and justice of the former uncle. But that's not all. One of the journals reveals tapes recorded in 2009. The contents of these tapes indicate that Daniel Obajtek, being Pcimia's Gate, was in practice running the company. This would mean committing a crime because the law prohibits local governments from doing business. Moreover, during one of the trials, as we read in the media, Daniel Obajtek testified that he had never run a secret company. That would mean he lied to the court, which falls under the false testimony rule. The D.A.'s got those tapes. So? Nothing. He doesn't see the tapes lying on the D.A.'s desk. And how can you not believe in miracles, Mr. District Attorney? Another miracle, in fact another band of miracles, would have thought if the CBA hadn't reported to the prosecution a few years ago that ownership of the property and debt had been withheld. But it did. The D.A. thought it was nothing, but the public had a red light. The unbuilt plot that Daniel Obajtek gave to his loved ones returns to it. Who paid for the construction? By what means? The public didn't get enough explanations. Daniel Obajtek also has a mansion in Borkówko's squad. That's where miracles happen. First the property took over one foundation, then the other. Both of these foundations received ministerial grants for the costly renovation of Mr. Obajtek's private property. And finally purchase apartment, 187 m Mr. District Attorney! Does the D.A. Really believe in miracles? Or maybe the ministry and the D.A.'s office have the wrong roles? Instead of pursuing the truth, they're in charge of security. Maybe this is a political and business arrangement that has a patronage at the highest levels of power. But on the other hand (the bell) I don't think anyone in their right senses, which is called law and justice, would tolerate in their ranks a system that destroys the state. Unless I believe in miracles in this case. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 I request that the information of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General be rejected because she has brought absolutely nothing into this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u607	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute and please observe time discipline. Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u608	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! High Izbo! There's a company in this case that's suffering a million and a half losses. There's a defendant named Obejtek in this case who's supposed to have a property benefit of 800,000. zł. There's a ton of paperwork on this case, witnesses, suspects. There are even some suspects who plead guilty in the course of the proceedings. How come you're knee-deep to change the law just to withdraw an indictment from the courthouse? How come you're losing the main witness of the prosecution because you can't find him in Poland, and on this basis you find his testimony unbelievable? How is it that in the case of investigators who have brought an indictment to the court, you are filing a misdemeanor case, and then silently dismissing it? How is it that when you withdraw an indictment from the court, you lie about doing it to supplement the proceedings, to determine what the role of the defendant Obietka in the company was? Criminals are to be afraid, not their victims - says your boss, Minister Ziobro. How come he's not here? Where does your law and your justice end, and where does the protection of your colleagues begin? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u609	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u610	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to ask you one thing, actually. As a mathematician, I can't believe one thing. As the prosecution decided to take the case away from the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor in Ostrów Wielkopolski, instead moved it to the District Attorney's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski and by chance - given that we have more than 5,000. Prosecutors in Poland - this case went to Mrs Magdalena Witko, who is privately married to President Tomaszow Mazowiecki and previously to Mr PiS? And I wanted to ask, how many prosecutors are in the D.A.'s office who are directly family-related to the P.I.S. Members? Or is it just that it had to happen? [[Applause]] [[By way of a draw naturally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u611	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u612	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In politics, we're used to people saying things on the same subject. But I think it's a bigger difference than in today's debate on the actions of justice against Daniel Obajtka, a bigger difference than the speech of your Attorney General and the speeches of parliamentarians can't be imagined. So I will not repeat the facts that my previous speakers mentioned, whether Mr Marek Sowa or other parliamentarians, but I would like to ask the prosecutor to refer to the facts that have been presented here. It is not the first time you have heard of them, not the first time we have heard of them - about the property of Mr.Daniel Obajtek and his closer and further family, the property that could not have been covered in their income, the serious clues of doing business when he could not do business. I wanted to ask the prosecutor: Don't you think that these are matters that the prosecution should be deeply interested in, that you should not only present us with information about the actions of the court and the prosecution years ago, but (The bell) should try to resolve this matter thoroughly? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u613	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Nowacka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u614	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! First of all, I am deeply amazed that Minister Ziobro does not have the courage to come. I remember a few weeks ago, when he tried to get to the podium, Marshal Terlecki wouldn't let him. I understand it's some kind of post-traumatic shock that he's already afraid of the speakers and he's afraid of confronting parliamentarians, all the more so now that he has to answer some uncomfortable questions. [[Applause]] You've created a lex Obajtek, specifically for one guy. This is amazing. I would like to ask: Is there any other case for the prosecution to withdraw an indictment under the revised 2016 Act? I'd really ask for this. I would also like to ask, because you, Mr. Prosecutor, are very closely associated with the Party of Law and Justice, you ran from her letter, you were an active politician of Law and Justice: How do you feel about having such slogans: law and justice, being a prosecutor, knowing that you are introducing these laws under the table, that in the COVID act you will include impunity, that in the profession of dentist - lex Obejtek? Do you think this is good lawmaking? Are these the right standards? Is that lawless? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u615	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u616	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! Do you, as a lawyer, a prosecutor, an honest man who upholds the rule of law and honesty, not hurt Mr. Obajtek's multimillion-dollar estate, which was born - attention - from the local government salary? Aren't you being manipulated in the transfer of your assets, in the creation and construction of it? Doesn't it bother you that a government majority for one man with a knee pushed a bill that was designed to withdraw an indictment? Doesn't the political involvement of law and justice politicians in the protection of Mr. Obietko disturb you? I also wanted to know: Is it true that the legally convicted have entered into an agreement with the company Elektroplast - legally convicted for causing damage to this company to at least PLN 1.4 million? Has such an agreement between those legally convicted and the company Elektroplast been concluded? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u617	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u618	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! No, Mr. Counselor! [[Applause]] 'Cause I think you guys got the wrong part, 'cause in the case of both of you, you're way out of line. You're not the D.A.'s office, you're the attorney. - only in the case of Obietka. [[You don't know what the D.A.'s office is.]] Since the election was won by the Law and Justice of the Attorney-General of Ziobra and yours, he's been working to protect the interests of Obietka. It is no different to describe everything that has happened since 2015, in Daniel Obajtka's case since 2016, a transfer from one prosecutor's office, writing a special law to protect Daniel Obajtka. You need him because you need your oligarchy. What you want to create is in political science it's called state capitalism. It already works, unfortunately quite well, in Putin Russia... [[China.]] ...where there are businessmen who are fattened with state money (the bell), then protected, and their money is used to use power. And that's your job on this one. You're defending him, and you're not the D.A.'s office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u619	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u620	Mr. District Attorney! As you ran for the one on the PiS list from Sosnowiec, you had such a password: safe and fair Poland. This password has been realized, this Poland is very safe for Daniel Obajtka, but unfortunately it is not fair. We want to ask you very clearly, because it was 2016, you were already in the National Public Prosecutor's Office: Are you the author of this provision, which in the media is called lex Obajtek - a provision that concerns allowing cases to be brought back from the judicial stage to the stage of the prosecution's investigation? Daniel Obajtek used this recipe. His case was removed from the district court in Sieradsk, and then the district department of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, headed by you, dropped the case. It is said that there are bets in the PiS, whether you are the author of this recipe or Minister Warchoł. I'd appreciate it if you could come here and answer honestly whether you or Mr. Warchoł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How about somebody else? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u621	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u622	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! I was wondering why you guys were acting like this. I think the answer is simple. Daniel Obejtek's story shows how a kind of closed circuit works, which you are creating as a political camp. And everything in the PiS state has been subject to this arrangement. You're an organized organization... [[Criminal.]] ...of great influences, connections with people at different levels of power, business and services. Let me ask you one question: Are you credible and do you have any sense of shame or embarrassment at all? After all, there is a person who connects Minister Ziobra, former Prime Minister Szydło and Daniel Obajtka. Do you know who that is? Defender of each of these people, Counselor Zaborowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u623	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u624	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, the media has told us that there is no record of these allegations in the D.A.'s office to confirm the false testimony of Mr. Obajtek. In the PiS state, things are suddenly either disappearing or breaking down: the record from the accident premier Szydło broke, the 400-page folder Fr. Dymer's misplaced in the other case file, the CD on Mr. Obietka's case is gone. [[Miracles.]] It's like touching a magic wand in matters that aren't comfortable with the current power, evidence either disappears into thin air, or it breaks down. [[And pedophiles from the parish to the parish.]] Minister! Information, please. Has any action been taken to determine what happened to the evidence plate in Mr. Obietka's case? Has it been established who is responsible for their disappearance? Whose care were they in, and did the person responsible have consequences? High Izbo! In a normal country, an explanation of doubts and questions concerning Obajtka would be dealt with by long ago (the bell) by independent prosecutors and independent services. The problem is, we don't have an independent prosecutor's office or an independent service. Therefore, we will wait until the end of your reign for reliable answers about Mr. Obietka. Luckily, it will be soon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u625	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u626	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Abandoned Minister of Justice! Didn't both prosecutors knock on your door yet because they don't know which of their palaces, manor houses or apartments she's sleeping in? You can get lost in tens of millions of grants, discounts on apartments, sponsorships, rewrited plots, palaces, villas. We just still haven't heard the D.A.'s office explain one of these cases. And even though the D.A.'s office hasn't taken care of it, we all know how it's gonna end. Let us remind you that in 2013 the later head of Orlen was Daniel O. He heard allegations of co-operation with organized crime groups and taking bribes from her boss. In 2016, the Council PiS passed laws that allowed the D.A.'s office to drop the case first and then drop it. Thanks to you, Daniel O. from 2013. [[♪ The bell ♪]] without a judgment, Daniel Obajtek became a strange coincidence in 2016. Today, when you look people in the eye, you will answer the question: Have these regulations been adopted specifically for Obietka? Why didn't the D.A.'s office you're overseeing allow the court to explain these charges? Was it you who gave the order or suggested the termination of the preliminary proceedings against both of you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u627	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u628	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! High Izbo! Whatever, but the crystals in the PiS aren't missing. If one wears an armor, another appears. This is basically the situation, it seems, standard. But every one of them - you have to admit - is better, although all of them are definitely characterized by a few things: conflict of interest, hiding property, nepotism, illegal activities. It's most frightening that all these things are most often swept under the rug as if they weren't there. It is all for the good of the country, for higher purposes, for the Republic of Poland. That's what we hear most of the time. It's really shocking that this is happening. I have two specific questions for you, and I would ask you to answer them. Is it true that it was the prosecutor's office that dropped the indictment from the court in Sieradz after the change (the bell) in criminal law in 2016 to supplement the charges? And the second question is: Did the indictment, after completion, go back to court and include Daniel Obajtka and three legally convicted collaborators in 2015? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u629	Thank you very much. Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u630	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! I'm not gonna ask you about Mr. Obietka's estate because gentlemen don't ask for money. I will only say one thing: in Reval - not everyone in Poland knows where it is - the apartment costs 15 thousand. PLN per 1 m [[May I? Yes, you can.]] May I? Yes, you can. I think you guys can do anything. Mr. District Attorney! Do you realize that the combination of Lotus and Orlen is harmful to Poland? Did you in the United Right have documents that would state what the benefits of the merger between Lotus and Orlen will be? Because I will tell you: 30% of Lotus will have to be put on the market for Western companies, because this is what the European Union requires. We're gonna have to pay back 30%. Warehouses, we're gonna have to give up 30% of the waterfront. This is a crime against Polish property. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to see these documents, documents which state that this is a good business for Poland. Last sentence. Do you realize you're starting to grow oligarchs like Putin in Russia? It's a massacre. in this country. Thank you very much. This is the first oligarch. We'll have 10 of these in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u631	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u632	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney or Counselor! I wanted to ask what the others were asking, because that question must sound. So I have a question about the famous specscript, which is art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, commonly known as lex Obajtek. Because it is a strange fact that a special provision, which already at the legislative stage raised a lot of doubts, the criticism of the then National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court or the National Council of Legal Counsels, entered into force on 5 August 2019 and a month later, on 5 September, the prosecutor withdrew the case of Daniel Obejtka from the court. In the same year, a modification of the special provision was adopted, which removed the possibility of filing a complaint (the bell) to withdraw the indictment from the court. This is a very strange case. That's why I'm gonna ask you straight and I'd like to get the answer straight: yes or no. Thank you. Just one more question. Was this provision applicable to a matter other than the case of Daniel Obajtka, or was it specifically designed for him? Yes or no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u633	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u634	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You're not here, Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! We see what's going on with Mr. Obietek. We see how the whole oligarchic structure is being built around it, how this House unfortunately adopts laws only to clear Mr. Obejtek of the various charges which are being brought to him by various courts. This is obviously a scandal. It's all about building a party state, taking over the press, not leading to any energy reform and centralizing, stubborning the whole country. Why is the U.S. Attorney General building an oligarchy instead of defending the public interest? Why the prosecution, instead of simply defending public affairs, defending (the bell) a man who worked with gangsters? It's just a scandal, and it's got to stop, maybe after the election, which unfortunately you're gonna lose. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u635	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u636	I'm looking for Zbigniew Ziobra, Minister of Justice. There isn't. [[There isn't.]] I don't know where he's hiding. He's gone. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Perhaps.]] I see. Any minister would be so scared if he introduced Lex Obajtek in such an impertinent way, wouldn't he? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! I have a completely different case. You haven't dealt with all of Mr. Obietka's issues. E.g. A large company, Enea's energy company with its headquarters in Poznań, purchased the highest quality shield pipes for power cables in the Wielkopolska companies Arot and Q-Systems. Mr. Daniel Obajtek becomes the CEO of Energi. What happens after a while? The Board of Enea S.A. instructs companies to diversify the purchases of casing pipes. Where do you want them to buy? At Bernadette Obajtek's in TT Plast in Małopolska. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: Do you really have to allow this kind of oligarchization of the Polish state? Is the D.A.'s office really blind and not seeing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u637	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u638	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grupiński has not found Minister Ziobra. I have a question for Minister Ziobra: Is Daniel crystal? I'd like to know about it, because the state in this podium said that some people were crystal, and then things turned out different. From this information that you presented to the prosecutor and confronted Mr Owl's statement, there is something different, really different. First of all, lex specialis, lex Obajtek. I'd like to ask who was the initiator of this recipe. Because in this case, the State should investigate. What was the opinion of the Government Legislative Center? The point is never to deal with such apparent, untrue rules, unnecessary for one person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Besides, isn't Mr. D.A. wondering how many apparent actions Mr. Obietek has done? Aren't you surprised by so many actions concerning donations of great amounts, which are apparent acts? [[Nowhere undisclosed.]] Undisclosed. Thank you very much. I'd like to get one, Your Marshal. We're all waiting in this room. PiS benches are pretty loose because they only know how to scream and spread propaganda. We would like an honest, true answer to all the questions that we have asked and which Mr Owl asked on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u639	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u640	Dear Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! High Izbo! Numerous donations from loved ones, as my previous speaker said, are one of the characteristic signs of Daniel Obajtka's estate. Noble Nest in Choczew, land in Małopolska Lężkowice, almost 2 hectares of land, etc. How many donations were there? How many of them have been reported to the IRS? That's the first question. And second question, basically a problem. The representative of Daniel Obajtka is Maciej Zaborowski, who has been representing Zbigniew Ziobra, his wife for years. He is a patron who sits on the Supervisory Board of PZU, whose main shareholder is the State Treasury, a patron who was recommended by the PiS club to the Court of State. This patron, working closely with Zbigniew Ziobra, represents Daniel Obajtka, whose case is to be investigated by the prosecution under Zbigniew Ziobrze. Mr. District Attorney! Don't you really think it's something deeply inappropriate? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u641	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u642	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an hour. 2 at night, 25 June 2021 Mr. District Attorney, do you enjoy working in the hours in which you respond to Members today? Do you like being in this situation? But I get it. In addition, there is not a single Member of the PiS in this Chamber where we should create law and also account for those who break this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, what are you ashamed of? I could probably say here that Mr. Obajtek is the star of the power camp, that Mr. Obajtek is an excellent manager on the one hand, but on the other hand, the one prosecuted by the law. This is the one (the bell), which is lucky to have a CD with recorded interviews from 2009 in the Krakow State's Attorney's Office. Mr. District Attorney, where's the record? Where's that record that might have been important evidence in the case? Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. District Attorney! Believe me, there will be a day like this, a time like today, in a few years' time, that this House will have a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry... Thank you very much. ...to investigate this case, and then this case will be settled. Believe it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u643	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u644	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! Mr. Prosecutor, how do you want to convince Poles and Poles that Poland is a country of law and justice? Limited to a month's freedom for a retired man for eating a plum in chocolate at the grocery store. Mediaally publicized lock-in of a mentally incapacitated person for stealing or eating a waffle for 99 gr. I could continue and quote a whole list of cases like this. Meanwhile, here we have thefts on several hundred zlotys, bribes taken at the time when he was a wojew, fictional invoices, unexplained sources of monstrous wealth, the creation of laws by politicians, the cleaning in courts, the transfer of files (the bell), the remission of charges, i.e. the evident action organized like the mafia of a political-criminal group. We have a return of lawlessness, shoes... Finish it, Member. ...specific to the darkest times, coming back here like phantoms from the afterlife of Polish feudalism. It's about mentality. Member, finish up. ...typical for the Polish country, where one was oppressed and the other was allowed to do so. Thank you very much. I have a question for you, Mr. District Attorney. We all have a question you can't answer because you can't. He can only say what he can say, what his rulers allow him to say. But here was a question about Orlen and Lotus, their connection, which is detrimental to Poland. Mr. District Attorney! You're gonna have to draw conclusions. Who is the principal of your power, if all this leads to an unfavorable solution for Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u645	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, really, next time it won't be a minute longer, I'm gonna have to turn off the microphones. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. I know it's the middle of the night, we're all tired, but let's respect the rules. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u646	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney, I think you're more of a politician than a prosecutor, but I think you do remember how you worked organized crime 20 years ago. I wanted to ask you if you had a red light when you heard those tapes when you read these accounts. Don't you have a red light on that this is evidence that someone might have committed a crime? Don't you have a red light on? Because if you don't, that means that this policy has dulled your vigilance. Half of Poland lit a red lamp. And the second question, about the property in Borkówko's squad. There is a mechanism: foundation, grant, ministerial grant, from companies of the Treasury, another foundation. Isn't Mr. D.A. lighting a red light in this case? Half of Poland is lit (the bell), and the prosecutor's office is not. I would very much ask you to be kind enough to explain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u647	Thank you very much. I'm asking the prosecutor to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u648	Dear Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would ask you not to insult me by calling me an attorney. I'm the D.A. And I'm asking you to. I understand different statements, but don't call me an attorney. [[That doesn't seem to be the case.]] I also want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I have no power. I'm a national prosecutor, I'm an independent prosecutor, and no one's my boss. That's two things, ladies and gentlemen. Third thing. If you also requested information about proceedings concerning claims of property or other cases in which the name of Mr.Daniel Obajtek appears, I would provide you with such information. Of course, I have this information, and I prepared it because I suspected that you could ask me that. This, in fact, concerns cases which were concluded in 2013 with the final remission of proceedings concerning the misrepresentation or concealment of the truth by Mr.Daniel Obajtka in statements of property by the District Prosecutor's Office of Kraków-Śródmieście-West in 2013 when they were so-called. Independent prosecutor and Attorney General Andrzej Seremet. [[No, tell me who was the prosecutor in Krakow and who did this case.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there was a sign-check. PR 2 Ds. 1090.2016 concerning the submission of false statements on 12 December 2014 in the course of the proceedings before the district court by Mr.Daniel Obajtka, which ended with an order to refuse to open an investigation against the conclusion that the act does not contain the marks of a criminal offence. On the other hand, the last notification, dated 1 March, by Mr Mark Sowa and Mr Aleksander Mishalski concerning the 2012 property statements by Mr Daniel Obajtek, ended on 27 April 2021 in the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Kraków-Krowodrz, with a decision to refuse to initiate an investigation due to the statute of limitations on the criminality of the act. So that I briefly presented to you these other proceedings in which the name Daniel Obajtka appears. On the other hand, if you are looking for any more detailed information, please, of course, we will present it in writing if you so request. As for Mr Owl's performance here, to be honest, I feel as if there were some schizophrenic behavior here. [[Are you a doctor or a lawyer?]] On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecution is directing an indictment against your Senator Stanisław Gawłowski and you believe that this indictment is false, it contains false information, it is bad, bad, but the indictment that was sent in 2013 was wonderful, good and there was only truth and only facts. [[Where did this guy get the money for 38 properties? From the uncle's salary?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Prosecutors are people. There are perfect prosecutors, there are good prosecutors, there are prosecutors who make mistakes that don't make those mistakes. That's why there's supervision at the D.A.'s office to avoid such mistakes. If the investigation of this proceeding was carried out and the proceedings were dismissed and the court's decision was subsequently maintained, there is therefore no reason to believe that the arguments put forward in that indictment were true. The main question that arises among your questions was the introduction of an article. 5. [[Lex Obajtek.]] To be honest, I am very surprised that you are asking the prosecutor's office, the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, me, because it is you who adopt the law in Poland. [[But you knew who it was for.]] I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that if you knew the Code of Criminal Procedure, you would know that such a provision was in force in Poland until 2003 in the Polish Code of Criminal Procedure. In 2003, during the rule of the left, this rule was changed... [[Happily and rightly.]] ...and was repealed in 2015. I suspect that the ratio legis of adopting this provision was most likely that the prosecutor could... [[Voice from the gym: Become a lawyer.]] ...to ask the court to return the case to pre-trial proceedings, either to supplement or to improve the proceedings, or when new essential circumstances arose. I stress once again, ladies and gentlemen, because I've already said this, and I don't think it sounded like Mr. Daniel Obajtek didn't have a charge of participating in an organized criminal group in this investigation. Anyone who keeps saying that says it isn't true. I've told you the charges against Mr. Daniel Obajtek. With regard to your patron Zaborowski, as such questions have also arisen here, I would like to tell you that in 2016 this case was dealt with by another lawyer. I'm not gonna give you my name because I don't want to disclose your personal information, but another lawyer, not Mr. Counselor Zaborowski. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear, because I repeated this several times during my speech, but I do not think you have remembered that in this case you did not take decisions by the District Attorney in Piotrków Trybunalski, Mrs Magdalena Witko, only her deputy. In light of the above, ladies and gentlemen... [[More respect for our intelligence.]] ...if you ask for the truth and I tell you the truth, you laugh. Of course. The truth may not be relevant to you. It's important to me because I'm a prosecutor. [[Voice from the room: Oh, sir...]] And I'm not a politician, although some say so. [[But you were.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As for the other questions that I have not answered, we will give them in writing, because, of course, we want to give you as detailed and reliable information as possible. Thank you very much. [[Your Marshal...]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u649	The discussion is closed... [[I'm asking for a correction, because you're insinuating things to me...]] You're welcome, one minute. But one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u650	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! Tell me what role Mr. Obietka Dudek played in the case - has anyone else been investigating Daniel Dudek's case from the very beginning? - not say Seremet did it there. Say it. Tell me if you're really offended by the fact that a guy in a year with $130,000. net income, invests 800 million PLN, 800 thousand PLN. Evil? Isn't it really outrageous that the CBA is reporting to the D.A.'s office that they haven't released four summer homes for $300,000? He said he didn't reveal the property's value? Isn't that really outrageous? We ask: Where did Obejtek have money for his investments? Because he didn't have it from his job, from his uncle's salary. [[He got his first communion as a gift.]] Thank you very much. And the role of the service, the role of the prosecution is to explain it, not to cover for Obietka. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u651	Thank you very much, sir. It was not a corrigendum, but certainly a valid question. The discussion is closed. A request was made to reject the information of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. [[And thank you, Marshal.]] [[Give it up for the marshal.]] That's what we've run out of... There will still be statements, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] On this we exhausted the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members still like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will be the first to make a statement. [[Voice from the room: He's found himself!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Finally some member of the PiS.]] [[Voice from the O.R.:...they weren't in the O.R. long ago.]] [[Voice from the room: We were there all the time.]] I'm asking you to calm down. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u652	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Zelów in the Bełchatów district is a specific place. This is due to the fact that its inhabitants are a true mixture of religions and cultures. The history of this small village is an example of the fact that for centuries they can exist side by side peacefully communities confessing the Lord God in their own way. Zelów was, and in some cases he is still home to Catholics, Lutherans, Calvins, Baptists, and Muslims. Truism is therefore a statement that the above fact has made a significant impact on the history of this city. A special ritual was left by the Czech Protestants, the Czech brothers living in Zelów. The exiles of religion from the Austrian Empire in the 16th century created a dynamic society. The parish created at the beginning of the 19th century is still a very important place. In a small museum on its territory there is a school chamber which is a reproduction of such one from the time of one of the founders of the Czech brothers Jan Amos Komenski with real equipment from the 17th century. Very important for the city and region is the Jelinka family, whose nestor was Pastor Jan Jelinek born and raised in Zelów, the hero of World War II. He acted on Volyn, helped Poles persecuted by Germans, Russians, and Ukrainians, as well as Jews. He took part in the fights of the first Czechoslovak corps for the Dukelska Pass. After the war he decided to stay in Czechoslovakia. He strongly rejected and disagreed with the communist regime and was sentenced and imprisoned for two years. Zelów aren't just Czechs. Many other famous people are associated with this place, such as Waldemar Krygier, a painter who died in 2006, a close associate of Jerzy Grotowski, buried in an evangelical-reformed cemetery in Zelów. Other Protestant clergymen, such as Pastor Robert Liersch or Roman Lipiński, co-author of the ecumenical translation of the Bible, should be mentioned. I would also like to mention Prof. Emilian Klemens Nowicki, who was born in 1781, a Polish doctor called the father of Polish surgery. He died on 5 March 1876 in the city of Zelów, buried in an evangelical-reformed cemetery in Zelów. Professor Józef Jersak born in Zelów in 1929, geography, geologist, one of the best Polish paleontologists should also be mentioned. Founder of the Polish Antarctic Station Henry Arctowski on Spitsbergen. He died in 1991 and was buried in an evangelical cemetery in Zelów. Paweł Wondraczek. He was born on 13 August 1897 in the village of Ignacy, the municipality of Zelów. The Wondraczka family line comes from the first migration of the Czech brothers to Zelów. After the outbreak of World War I, he is enlisted in the army and served in 10. The Kaniowski Light Artillery Regiment, which is part of the 10. Infantry Division. On 4 July 1920, the first day of the Soviet offensive took part in the battle of Ulin, now in northern Belarus. It is characterized by extraordinary valour and heroism. When his battery is forced to retreat, he fights to the end. He's the last to come off the battlefield while saving a wounded soldier. He is awarded the Virtuti Militari V Cross for his deed. Order number 2806, order 17 April 1921. After World War II, he returned to Czechoslovakia. He died on 19 February 1978 at the age of 81. Paweł Hulka-Laskowski, 1881 Polish writer, translator, activist, social publicist and above all religious. He was born on 25 June 1881 in Żyrardów in a family of Czech evangelicals, descendants of Czech brothers. Ladies and gentlemen! Zelów is a small point on the map, but its history makes it worth remembering. It's an ordinary and unusual small town. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u653	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u654	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Mateusz Lisiecki, Councillor of the Mogile District, asked me to intervene with a message on the problems caused by the government's delay in amending the so-called 'Mięgilenski County'. a odor law defining, inter alia, minimum distances from buildings in which they can function e.g. pigs, henhouses, farms or landfills. The stench associated with the operation of such facilities is one of the big problems not only for villagers in the area of Mogilenski County, but also for residents of other districts. The activity of industrial storage or waste collection is not only often carried out in violation of the living conditions and welfare of villagers, but also carries measurable health risks associated with the effects of toxic substances such as hydrogen sulphide or ammonia. The measles have a negative effect on human health. They can cause depression, fatigue, respiratory problems, headaches, nausea, eye and throat irritation. The problem of strong and annoying odors from the landfill of municipal waste in Bydgoszcz is also raised by a group of inhabitants of the settlement Siernieczek, whose representatives stress that the response of companies responsible for pollution can be achieved mainly through social protests, not by requiring the application of appropriate law to those who pollute air. Therefore, they should enter into force as soon as possible and, at the same time, effectively eliminate these cases with regard to cities as well. Local government workers from rural areas are not opposed to the operation of farms or other establishments related to breeding and processing, but according to them this type of production activity cannot be carried out in violation of the health or life of residents of neighbouring areas, especially since in the opinion of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Poland is not at risk of lack of food or meat, so the possible multiplication of plants on a relatively small area should not be an economic priority in Poland. Similarly, local government officials do not oppose the operation of landfills provided that these landfills do not hinder the lives of residents and are not hazardous to the environment. In the matter I am talking about, High Izbo, I have allowed myself to address to the Minister of Climate and Environment a proper interpellation and I hope that the Minister will lean over it and will agree to the conclusions I have concluded in it. Similarly, my club submitted a bill to the Marshal of the Sejm, also at the hands of the Marshal of the Sejm. We hope that this project will be on the agenda of this House relatively quickly and we will be able to adopt a good bill that will eliminate these inconveniences for the inhabitants of Polish villages and cities, including the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the Mogile District. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u655	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u656	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In 2020, 25 years have passed since the creation of the Special Economic Zone Euro-Park Mielec. In retrospect, this event can definitely be seen as groundbreaking for the city of Mielec and the district of Mielec, as well as the development of Polish entrepreneurship. The pandemic of Coronavirus and its associated sanitary tightening prevented the celebration of the anniversary of the event last year. It was only an improvement in the epidemiological situation that allowed for a formal meeting and a conference on the subject. Euro-Park Mielec - from tradition to industry 4.0, which took place at the castle in Baranów Sandomierski on 11 June 2021, i.e. the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Industrial Development Agency, which manages a special economic zone in Mielec. The meeting was primarily driven by one goal, which was undoubtedly to appreciate the role she played, to play and to play the first special economic zone in Poland, which was established in 1995 in Mielec. It was a period of transformation, the city's largest workplace fell. Unemployment was over 30% at the time. Every third person in the region was unemployed. There were no prospects, there was an economic threat. The rise of the zone was a great hope. Success has been achieved, although many did not believe it. It was thanks to many people, including local authorities from Mielec and the Mielec region, as well as employees of the Industrial Development Agency from the headquarters of the company in Warsaw and the branch in Mielec, who worked in the formation of the zone and took care of its further development. All of these people deserve a heartfelt thank you. Thanks are also due to entrepreneurs who have trusted this idea and invested their capital. Speaking of the 25-year history of the Euro-Park Mielec Special Economic Zone, it is impossible not to mention the dead person. Stanisława Padykuła, who co-created the Mielec economic zone, in 1991 and 1996 Deputy Minister of Industry, and since 1997 Vice President of the Industrial Development Agency, who died in 2001 in a plane crash on a business trip to Venezuela. He had great and undisputed merits in the uprising and in the first years of the special economic zone in Mielec. During this conference in Baranów Sandomierski was posthumously awarded with a badge of honor.Deserved for the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. The Euro-Park Mielec Special Economic Zone is currently over 1700 hectares of space in 33 subzones in 19 powiats in four voivodships, i.e. Podkarpackie, Małopolskie, Śląskie and Zachodniopomorskie. The total investment expenditure at the end of March 2021 is PLN 11.6 billion, also thanks to which 35 900 jobs were created. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u657	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u658	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the time is very late or very early, because hour. 2.20, in spite of these very turbulent discussions, it is worth to talk today about the great tragedy experienced by the inhabitants of Małopolska and Silesia in terms of extremely intense hailstorming, which was such a disturbing weather situation that some citizens who showed pictures of this situation showed even hail balls the size of chicken eggs. This is a very dramatic situation. The crisis facility in Małopolska met hours ago. We wondered how the ministry could help the people. On the other hand, the great crisis also concerns agriculture in these regions. We've seen pictures from those areas. Many hundreds of hectares of crops are unrebuildable. This potential in agriculture is very difficult to rebuild. Some crops are no longer suitable for any work, for any harvest. It is worth noting that at the present meeting of the Sejm in the Parliament's committee we discussed the issue of insurance in agriculture. The problem is very big because many farmers have not insured enough of their crops. I am very pleased that Mr Grzegorz Puda, Minister of Agriculture, in response to the interpellation of 20 April, stated that it would be a priority for the government to increase the amount of insurance in the years to come, but if it is possible to move some funds in the budget, there may still be further funds this year. I also submitted an interpellation on this matter to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, as well as at the meeting in Krakow regarding the Polish Agricultural Deal I signalled to him that there would probably be a problem not only with hailing, with nawal rain, but perhaps this year with drought. The problem is complex and started not now, not a few years ago, not a dozen years ago, but actually in the 1990s, because in the early 1990s mandatory insurance in agriculture was given up. This later led to the situation that these insurances were expensive. The state paid for these insurances, it still pays. And farmers are never safe when it comes to their crops, because they're being haunted all the time by a cataclysm, and if they were insured from all the cataclysms, then agricultural work wouldn't be worth it. By insurance against everything, farmers are not able to earn enough when it comes to their work to pay for these insurances. So farmers play roulette, once they're insured from one cataclysm, once from another, sometimes they're trying to find some kind of gold center. This ends with the State having to intervene. And the government of the United Right, as far as drought is concerned, intervened on record. In the previous term, it was a record money for drought, for this help. It's just an emergency all the time. I am very happy that we want to build a really good insurance system, in fact to return to this old mutual insurance system, which will lead to a situation where farmers will help each other. Even with the addition from the state budget, we will protect farmers from the difficult situations they find themselves in. That is why it is very important to secure, in this term of office, for sure, to build this bill, because in the future we will meet with further cataclysms. These cataclysms, as we can see, come all the time, once it's hailing, once it's drought, once it's heavy rain, and we can't protect ourselves from everything. Only comprehensive insurance can lead to good security. I would also like to appeal to road users because we are approaching the harvest with great steps. Often road users, car drivers complain about farmers driving too much equipment, that they move on these roads in a dangerous way. Farmers believe, but we have to look out for each other, and they are going to collect Polish bread. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I wish you understanding for drivers as well as for farmers. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u659	Thank you very much. Is Mr Antoni Macierewicz, Law and Justice here? There isn't. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u660	Statement of events June '76 Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Exactly 45 years ago, on 24 June communist Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz announced increases. It is worth recalling that the authorities of that time knew very well that the 70% increase in product prices would trigger mass protests - the military readiness of MO officers was increased, who were to investigate the protesters. These activities were called Operation Summer 1976. A day later mass strikes began, among others. in Ursus, Płock and the largest - in Radom. Workers' speeches were bloody suppressed and 2.5 thousand were arrested all over Poland. persons. Let us remember all the victims of the communist regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u661	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Bleeding is one of the most beautiful social actions that are the instincts of selflessness, which aims to obtain blood and its components from healthy people for the benefit of those in need. Each year, on June 14th, the World Blood Career Day established by the World Health Organization is celebrated on the anniversary of Karl Landsteiner, Austrian immunologist, Nobel laureate who discovered blood groups in 1901. At this point, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to involve themselves and the people closest to you in promoting the idea of blood donation, all the more so as the beginning of the holiday period should be a reason for all of us to further mobilise. The annual summer months are those during which the amount of blood given significantly decreases. Regional blood donation and blood treatment centres increase promotional activities at this time and encourage special attention to this important problem. I would like to join these calls and encourage all of you to join this good initiative. At the same time, it has been during recent months that we have drawn attention to the great impact of blood treatment. Coronavirus pandemic showed that the blood component, plasma, could save lives for many people. The eyes of the healers are still considered to be one of the most effective drugs on COVID-19, all thanks to blood donors. By taking this opportunity, I wish all blood donors and employees of regional blood donation and blood treatment centers to continue their determination and satisfaction in carrying out this wonderful gift of heart and every success. Let the feeling of unselfish help to those in need be a source of your satisfaction and joy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u662	Due to the risk of another viral mutation - delta variant and the already active South American lambda variant, the only effective defense against severe disease or mild illness are vaccinations which are carried out in Poland by the National Vaccination Program. At present, access to vaccination is common for every person over the age of 16. In view of the huge renunciations in the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus in our country, which we have behind us, due to the possible threat of a new wave of disease we should increase health requirements for arriving in Poland during the holiday period. The danger of another wave can come from the British Isles, where the number of diseases is increasing and the cause is the delta variant in 90% cases. In the recent period, 250,000. children in the UK were quarantined or treated - it was school absenteeism. Children from Polish families will travel to their families in Poland, especially their grandparents, and this can be the reason for the increase of infections. Ms Merkel spoke about unification of sanitary measures in the EU. With this in mind, in Poland we should reduce the age limit for PCR tests from 12 years to 6 years, in other countries there are lower ranges, e.g. Germany - 10 years old, Ireland - 7 years old. A hotel quarantine should also be considered for arrivals from the UK. Our Polish restrictions on travelers are too liberal for other EU countries. If the current number of diseases in the country is close to the number of deaths, it means that the elderly and the weaker are dying and the symptoms are ignored, and it is not the fault of the medics, but the disregard of sanitary rules - masks, disinfection - and aversion to vaccination. I will also refer to the special medical procedure, which is the teleporade - it is generally considered an acceptable form of medical assistance, but also the decision not to make the necessary personal contact with the patient requires knowledge and intuition of a physician based on the basis of Primum non nocere.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u663	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today's parliamentary statement I wanted to devote to the harmful phenomenon in the global and European economy, which is tax havens. Despite raising this problem in the European Union by Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mateusz Morawiecki still thrives. The European Union and its leading countries, such as Germany, France, are trying to impose a moral revolution on Poland through its bodies and are silent about the use of less wealthy taxpayers from Eastern European countries. The phenomenon of tax havens strangles real competition because of privileged companies, leads to illegal financial benefits. By transferring capital to a place of low or zero taxation, corporations and persons charged with a high tax rate avoid the transfer of their own country's debts. They hide the actual level of their income and transfer profits from parent countries, e.g. from Poland, significantly reduce the costs of their actual business. One of the most common opportunities offered by tax havens is the creation of fictional business costs by entrepreneurs. In order to achieve this, company owners form companies based in one of the countries of tax haven and use these fictional branches as a kind of hidden bank. By transferring profits from business to companies registered in a tax paradise, entrepreneurs hide their actual income from tax authorities in their own country. One of the most frequently used methods of artificially reducing profits is the sale of products manufactured by the company to a daughter located in a tax paradise. The products are sold at the manufacturing price, so that the company officially does not make any profits on transactions. The company then sells products at a higher price, thus generating non-taxable profits in the home country and with a favourable tax rate on the spot in the tax paradise. Another popular way that corporations are willing to use is to sell licenses or copyrights to names and logotypes for disproportionately high amounts, making up a large part of all the company's income. Such costs significantly reduce the tax base, which in turn leads to a reduction in the amount of income tax that the company has to pay in its home country. It is estimated that 9 to more than 32 trillion dollars are hidden in tax havens as a result of the use of such runways. According to the Financial Ministry's announcement of 7 July 2020, the EU blacklist of tax havens includes the Republic of Fiji, Guam, Cayman Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Sultanate of Oman, the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago and the American Samoa. This list includes jurisdictions which are not included in the list of countries and territories applying harmful tax competition issued under the Polish income tax legislation PIT and CIT. In addition to these seven jurisdictions, the EU list includes Panama, Samoa, Seychelles, United States Virgin Islands and Vanuatu. A total of 12 dependent countries and territories are listed. Some EU Member States benefit from artificial profit transfer and should be called tax havens. These countries are deliberately implementing such regulations as are conducive to artificial transfer of profits to them. Moreover, these countries are often also used by international corporations as intermediary states to further transfer profits to traditional tax havens such as the Cayman Islands and the Virgin Islands. If the EU does not take effective action against tax havens, it will undermine trust and solidarity between countries. The biggest beneficiaries of tax optimisation are the Netherlands, Ireland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Malta and Cyprus. It's time to put an end to these dishonest practices once and for all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-24-sejm-33-2.u664	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 33rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm, scheduled for 7 and 8 July 2021, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. Thank you all very much. [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 2 min 27]]
