ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u1	I open the 20th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Viktor Durlak and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to the Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Viktor Durlak and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor in room 217. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to take the designated seats. Dear Senators, in connection with the epidemic, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special, yet established formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217 shall be asked to enroll in questions and to speak in the discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Viktor Durlak and in Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? I hope so. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the trial vote, which is intended only to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons after the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. I'm asking for a test vote. Please state the results of the vote. The IT state, there's a small picture on the middle screen. It's like you're... If you could just take a look... There's a small image on my middle screen showing the results of remote voting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 87 senators voted, and so many are attending... It's like you're an IT guy looking at what's going on on my middle screen... You're not listening to what I'm saying... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is this how it's supposed to look, or is it supposed to be all over the screen? It always took up the whole screen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I repeat: 87 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] So many are currently attending the meeting, but this figure is likely to increase. I inform that the Sejm, at its twenty-fourth meeting on 17 and 18 December, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws, accepted most of the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Public Roads and some other laws, rejected the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the Self-Government Roads Fund and some other laws, rejected the amendments of the Senate to the Act on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2021, rejected the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 17th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighteenth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 2 and 8 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution at the end of the year of St John Paul II and considering it as the item of the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Objection.]] As the opposition has been raised, we are voting on the proposed... [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, two words of justification.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u2	In 2019 we adopted a resolution establishing the year 2020 as John Paul's Year II, also in connection with the 100th anniversary of birth. And this year, in fact, I'm going to say, passed under that sign. At the moment we are dealing with a resolution which says that this year we are ending with a resolution at the end of this year. Although she has a new version in the title that she is in connection with the century of her birth, but in connection with the century of her birth it was already that year. This is bad practice, Mr. Marshal. Once we adopt a resolution on a particular matter, the meaning of a particular person in our social, political life, and we do not repeat such a resolution at the end of the year. As such precedents will widen, and we are still making a lot of these resolutions, I think it will not be well accepted by the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u3	Thank you very much. In the face of the vote of opposition, we proceed to the vote on my proposal to complete the agenda for the item: the second reading of the draft resolution at the end of the year of St John Paul II and to consider it as a point of the last agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking one of the remote voters to see if she pressed the right buttons. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 54 for, 18 against, 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] And that's right. Senator Ambrosik, please pay attention to your vote. The motion has been accepted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 20th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. I would like to inform you that the vote on the budget bill will be held on the second day of the meeting, because this is the last day the Senate can comment on this. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. If the committees finish their work and the Senate Work Office prepares the documents, the discussion of the points will be interrupted during the second day and the budget will be voted on so that we can pass it on to the Sejm. Probably tomorrow afternoon. Dear Senators, if the committees prepare their reports on the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and on the draft resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States, the agenda may be supplemented tomorrow by a second reading of these projects. The item concerning the second reading of the draft resolution at the end of the Year of St John Paul II will be discussed on the third day of the meeting. I would also like to inform you that, on Wednesday at 1 p.m., if the session and the vote are not completed, an adjournment will be announced until 4 p.m., because at 2 p.m., the Senate plenary room will hold a meeting with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Maroš Šefčovič, responsible for interinstitutional relations and forecasting. The meeting will adopt the videoconference formula with the participation of translators. In general, the plan discussed at the Seniors' Convention is that, if possible, the budgetary debate should be concluded today, the committee's meetings on this point will be held tomorrow morning and then the vote will proceed. The remaining points will be discussed tomorrow. With you, Marshal Witek, we'll take... This does not directly concern you, but I would like to inform you that there will be a video conference of the presidents of the parliaments of the Visegrad Group. The item on John Paul II will be discussed on the third day of the meeting and then the other items will be voted on. That's the working plan. I would like to remind you that a meeting is planned on Wednesday, a video conference with Mr Maroš Šefčovič, Vice-President of the European Commission. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the budget law for 2021. The Senate Marshal sent the Budget Act to the Senate Committee. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on this matter on the basis of which. The text of the Act is contained in print No 294 and the report of the Commission In print No 294 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the Budget Act 2021, on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 17 December 2020. The report on the work of our committee is contained in print No 294 A. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance recommends adopting the amendments that are included in the printing. These amendments, which I will discuss later, are included in this document 20. At the same time, I inform the High House that during the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, a minority request for adoption of the law was made without amendment. The rapporteur will present the reasons for this proposal at the appropriate time. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance worked on this law at its meetings on 4 and 5 January this year. Work on the budget law, as usual, as has been the case for years, as has been the case since the beginning, since the Senate adopted the budget for the current year, took place in the same way this year. First, all the Senate's industry committees have examined the various parts of the budget law that are relevant to their competence. The representatives of the committee met with the Minister of Finance and the ministers and heads of offices responsible for the part of the budget which were examined by the various committees. The committees of their meetings prepared reports which were submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on 5 January this year. Part of the committee proposes the adoption of a budget law without amendments in parts which concern their activity and some committees recommend the adoption of a budget law together with the proposed amendments. At its meeting on 5 January this year. We have listened to all the reports. Then, at the next meeting, we voted on the amendments that were tabled within the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and on the amendments that were prepared by the various sectoral committees. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate in this part of my report, I am obliged to present amendments which have been adopted by the budgetary committee and amendments by the sectoral committees which have not been supported by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. I am also obliged to make a decision to refuse to support these amendments to justify it to the High Chamber. This justification will, of course, be the result of the discussion and the decisions taken by the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance at its meeting on 5 January 2021. As I said earlier, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends that 20 amendments be adopted, but 18 of these amendments are substantive. As a result of these decisions, we have made changes to individual parts or annexes of the budget, in line with the practice that has been applied for years. In turn, 2 amendments, 19th and 20th amendments in the table of amendments, are amendments that relate to amendments... They are technical, legislative in nature. These are amendments that change the names of the ministries, which is necessary after the change that took place at the end of last year. The respective names of the ministries, which in the end of last year were included in the budget law adopted by the Sejm, simply lost their validity and needed to be amended. Thus, the words "Ministry of Science and Higher Education' shall be replaced by "Ministry of Education and Science', as well as the words "Ministry of National Education', because the two ministries have been merged. The substantive amendments are as follows. I will briefly discuss these amendments, which have been adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and which we are presenting to the High House in the hope that you will accept our proposals. The first amendment is an amendment which increases the current expenditure of the Senate Registry by PLN 738 000. These are the appropriations to be allocated to current expenditure, including mainly the appropriations relating to the renovations to be carried out by the Senate Office in the buildings it administers. Another amendment, quite important, is an amendment, which was a committee proposal, a proposal from the Rules of Procedure Committee. The amendment proposes to increase the funds allocated to Polonia by PLN 10 million in the Senate Office. As you senators know, you know, remember, for many years, for most of the history of free Poland, the Senate dealt with Polonia, the Senate was responsible. In accordance with the Constitution and other laws, for the care of Polonia. The funds allocated to Polonia have always been under the responsibility of the Senate, always outside of the occasional situations when they have not been included in the Senate budget for several years. In the last year, these funds, by decision of the Government and of the Sejm, were transferred in full to the Foreign Minister and other ministers, simply scattered among the various ministries. And this amount this year... To my question, what amount is being allocated to Polish affairs... This is the amount of a little over 60 million PLN and she, as I said, is mainly in the budget of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also in the budgets of other ministries. Our proposal, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, does not concern the return of the entire amount, because we do not want to do a revolution on this matter, at least at this stage. We propose that 10 million PLN, i.e. the amount of several times or even many times less than the amount allocated to Polish affairs, be the responsibility of the Senate, so that some smaller, important expenditures can be implemented from the point of view of the Senate's Polish activity. It's from the Senate Chancellery's budget. At peak moments, this spending on Polish affairs was, if I remember correctly, about PLN 100 million, and perhaps not much more than PLN 100 million. This year, in budgets outside the Senate Office, these amounts are significantly lower, but in the order of about PLN 60 million. Another third amendment is an amendment which transfers PLN 3 million to the European Solidarity Centre. This is also an amendment prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee. Senators from this committee, among others. Senator Rybicki and other senators tabled this amendment at their committee meeting. It was simply the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances that agreed with the rule-making committee that the European Solidarity Centre The most important institution in the area of heritage storage, in such a broad sense. Indeed, it should have clear support from the state budget, all the more so since we are still in the years which are the anniversaries of great events, the raids of the Polish people connected with the 'Solidarity', connected with strikes in December 1980, also with this dramatic year 1981. So it seems that the budget of this institution should be supported and supported, so that the projects that are being carried out there have a clear, strong dimension not only in Poland but also in Europe. The point is that we should be able to convince, especially Europeans, that these great changes in Europe, which took place after 1989, had their origins in Poland and in this great break which accompanied our youth in 1980 and in the following years. Another amendment, fourth, is an amendment which allocates PLN 3 million to the Ombudsman. Although the Ombudsman is receiving more money this year than in the previous year, there is little growth here. But in recent years these cuts in the ombudsman's budget have been so clear that the restoration of this amount and the normal functioning of the ombudsman seems to be justified. 2021 is the year in which a new Ombudsman should probably be elected. Who's gonna be? We don't know. And this decision of ours does not have any personal or political subtext, because it is prepared for an institution, and today we do not know who will manage it. Another amendment, the fifth, concerns the transfer of PLN 80 million to combat infectious diseases and epidemiological problems. And here the senators of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance seem to report, I believe, an amendment changing the origin of these measures, considering that this proposal, which has been accepted, may not be the best solution at all. Another major amendment also shows the priorities of senators with a majority in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, as well as in the Senate. This is an amendment which allocates an additional amount of PLN 2.5 billion for educational purposes. These are the measures that, as an educational subsidy, will be passed on to you, I hope. For the increase in salaries for educational staff. That is the intention of this amendment. The source of the funding of this task is payments from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance analysed this issue quite strongly. In the state budget for 2021, the profit contribution, and this is the profit for the previous year, i.e. for 2020, is planned for PLN 1 billion 700 million, well, a little more, but about PLN 1.7 billion. We as a committee, at the request of the senators from the committee, asked the President of the National Bank of Poland if he envisaged an increase in the amount of the payment to the state budget this year. Last year, the profit contribution amounted to more than PLN 7 billion and so much was paid by the National Bank of Poland to the state budget. The profit of the National Bank of Poland is such a specific category. It was once generally not included in the state budget at all, but for several years the government has entered it into the budget law at the draft budget stage and treated it as normal budgetary revenue. Previously, the revenue from the State budget was not included in the Act. It was, like I said, in the days... let's say, before Law and Justice. Of course, at that time this profit also affected the state budget, but it was intended to reduce the deficit of the state budget and therefore did not appear as a separate category. Since it was decided a few years ago I don't remember exactly when the decision was made. In order to include in the budget the profit of the National Bank of Poland as the amount of income shown in the project and later in the already adopted budget, it is... Well, we think that this amount of PLN 1 billion 700 million is clearly understated, especially since at the end of last year there have been quite significant exchange rate changes, and these mainly result in a change in the amount of profit made by the National Bank of Poland. That's a 95% profit. is transferred to the State budget and 5% remains at the disposal of the National Bank of Poland. According to the estimates we have made, according to expert analyses, it seems that the profit for the previous year, paid into the budget of this year, should not be less than PLN 5 billion. Of course these are estimates, they will only be verified in April this year, when the Monetary Policy Council will eventually adopt the report of the National Bank of Poland and approve the financial result of this institution. So that's what we're proposing. Another seventh amendment concerns teaching aid for schools in relation to covid problems. And here's the amount... It's about raising payments by PLN 300 million. This is a profit intended to purchase teaching aid, remote learning equipment for students. The amount of the grant, the subsidy amounts to PLN 300 million. We decided that because with all our power there is still the same problem here. Students... Schools are not prepared in a proper way so that they can fully carry out their educational duties in relation to distance education. On this occasion, there is another problem that may have led to this amendment being modified. Well, the problem today is, of course, the lack of teaching equipment, especially in some families, it is known but the greater problem is the problem with Internet access. Of course, this problem is not in large cities, in larger centres, but in rural areas or small cities the problem of broadband access is a very serious problem. And I think we should see it here, at least in the voice of this speaker, or perhaps in an appropriate amendment, so that this access to broadband internet in areas that are particularly deprived of the Internet, such that it is fast, efficient... that these educational problems can be addressed more easily. Although there is a broadband internet programme for schools and it is implemented, yet a large number of schools do not have this access, there is no connection. But the biggest problem is that people, people, don't have access in their homes. Of course, that's what there are ideas and ways to do it. I'd like to remind you that this broadband Internet, its base, which is these aggregates, the entire distribution network was built a few years ago. And now there's a problem. so-called. the last mile, that is, reaching individual households. And that's just what you're not dealing with right now. And in this case, there are very, very long delays. Another amendment, the eighth, concerns this problem, which has already been reported several times at Senate meetings, namely the problem of allocating funds to fight cancer, to strengthen the oncology services that fight cancer. The amount of PLN 1 billion 950 million is earmarked for this. Well, here, at this point I should also point out that the source of covering this, as in the previous point, is the increase in tax and non-tax revenues of the state budget. We have made this decision to propose an increase in the tax revenue of the state budget, for two reasons. First of all, at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Minister of Finance, Mr Skuz, said that these tax revenues were something that we also enjoy. At the end of 2020 they will be higher than planned. Possibly even What you can't do today is 100% say That they may be higher than in 2019. Of course, there's a few reasons, and I'm not gonna explain it, and I'm not that specialised in these cases. If necessary, the Minister of Finance will probably explain this. In any event, the basis for calculating these taxes for 2021 is clearly higher. And so it seems to us, most of the committees, that it can be proposed here that, since this tax impact, which is the revenue of the state budget, will be higher, allocate it to those tasks which are priority and important. Second of all, there was not much to talk about. We also mentioned this at the committee meeting. No, 2021 is the year when a large part of the new taxes will be additional taxes, which were not previously or which simply in a residual amount had an impact on the state budget because they entered into force at the end of the year, in the second half of the year, etc. Thus, these revenues from different titles can be clearly higher. And some of the taxes paid by individual institutions have nothing to do with the profits, the revenue they earn, but are asset taxes. And that's our proposal for that. She has a reference in several amendments, including those I mentioned here. I won't discuss each one separately. The next amendment, the ninth, is the amendment which concerns the resources for the fight against COVID-19. This is the amount of PLN 4 billion. We pay a lot of attention to this issue because, in our opinion, the objectives of health policy are extremely important. And although the total budget for health care this year - Yeah, yeah, We hope so. It should be 5,3% GDP... It's hard to say, though, if that's the case. Some experts say we're not getting that rate yet. But we should strengthen this financing of health care, because the situation is quite difficult. This appropriation is also intended to cover remuneration allowances which will be granted in accordance with the principles that hospital directors, the heads of these medical entities, consider appropriate. So we're not proposing some kind of monetary salary increase here, but these are the funds that are going to be allocated according to some rational system of distribution already by individual contractors, budget realizers in the healthcare section. Amendment 10 is an amendment in which we delete the provision concerning the financing of public media, mainly Polish Television, by issuing bonds. On bonds and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, and the Senate have spoken repeatedly. We have pointed out that part of the expenditure from the state budget, according to most of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, but also according to many senators, should simply be implemented in a different way so that the budget is transparent, understandable and legible, so as not to run away with expenditure for various purposes through bonds. Then it slips away, so to speak, from this clause related to the deficit of the state budget. The accuracy of these expenses is clearly blurred. We propose to delete this way of financing public media. The law, which has been adopted, does not explicitly state that this amount of funding should be that much, but says that it can be that much, but it should result from a clear and precise calculation, which should be done by the National Radio and Television Council together with the public media and the Minister of Finance. Thus, this amount should be subject to verification and appeared without any financial justification. Amendment 11 states that the amount of PLN 10 million is allocated to help civil society organisations in Belarus and to help those who are being repressed by the Belarusian authorities. Amendment 12 concerns the transfer of PLN 100 million to the State Medical Rescue Fund. We all know in what situation the State Medical Rescue is in, that this support is actually needed and should strengthen the capacity of this institution. Amendment 13 concerns financial reinforcement and support for the State Sanitary Inspection. The State Sanitary Inspection has for many years been the responsibility of the district government. Parliament's decision last year I think it was a wrong decision, but that's another matter. The health inspection was incorporated into the system of state institutions and subjected directly to the minister. These are institutions that have been in poor financial condition for years, so that support for this institution is indeed very much needed. The next amendment concerns an in vitro programme, an infertility treatment programme by means of extracorporeal infertility, for which also... The appropriations for this purpose have not been transferred from the State budget in recent years. The Committee on Budgets and Finance therefore proposes These are proposals drawn up by the members of the Health Committee. • that such funding should also be transferred here. Amendment 15 - we are already close to the end of the amendments This is an amendment which provides for the transfer of a grant of PLN 95 million to pension allowances for voluntary firefighters after 10 years of social service. So those people who served at least 10 years in the fire brigade after retirement could count on a supplement. This matter has been the subject of debate, discussion in the Senate and in the Seym for many years. A legislative initiative was prepared in the Senate and it received a recommendation, including the government. I know there was a project in the Seym too. So it seems that, at last, after years, I think that under the pressure of the Senate, the law on support for voluntary firefighters will be adopted and, therefore, it was necessary to secure the resources for this purpose. And now the second amendment related to the rural area, even quite related, because it often happens that the circles of the rural hostess are located in the buildings of the voluntary fire brigade. This is a proposal to set up a multi-annual programme to support the functioning of rural hostel circles; of course, it will ultimately be a government decision whether such a programme will be set up. This case last year was the subject of a long, perhaps very long debate in the Senate, for many hours, although it would seem that the matter is simple. It was then decided which circles of rural hostess can receive support and which cannot, tried to divide these wheels into better and even better or even better, which aroused many emotions. Today we propose that such a fund be set up and that this support be created. Another amendment, which is foreseen, concerns PLN 30 million to combat discrimination and violence, including domestic violence. Here the amount of grants and subsidies is PLN 30 million, and for this purpose I think there is also about PLN 30 million in the state budget, if I am not mistaken, so strengthening support in this matter will be clear. And another amendment, the 18th, which is the last of these substantive ones, is the amendment related to COVID-19. This appropriation is intended to cover the treatment of complications after COVID-19 and measures for paediatric psychiatry. The first amount is PLN 120 million and the second is PLN 80 million. A particularly dramatic situation can now be mentioned when it comes to the functioning of child psychiatry. There is a very big problem with doctors who deal with this issue, and the resources for this are really small. So that support for this programme is indeed very important. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, at the moment I am obliged to state the reasons for the rejection or failure by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to submit amendments prepared by the committees on which we considered that we should not support them as the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. The first is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which aimed at increasing the benefits to individuals and the current expenditure of this budget unit by PLN 9 million in the Senate Registry. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance found that under the current conditions, in view of the financial difficulties, an increase in current expenditure... These are other expenses than those mentioned earlier and which we have accepted, i.e. those related to renovations, that would be mainly earmarked for strengthening the administration of the Senate Chancellery. It was extremely awkward not to recommend it, but ultimately we felt that the adoption of this amendment today, at a time like this and in the situation in which we were in, would simply not be fully understood by outsiders watching the functioning of Parliament, including the Senate. Of course, what I'm trying to say is that so far this kind of practice... For several years now, whether there was such a rule, the Sejm itself makes the self-correction, while working on the budget bill itself reduces its expenditure, the Senate also does the same. So it's just that both chambers thought that the decision whether or not to reduce their budget should be a matter of competence... Of course, formally the Sejm and the Members have the opportunity to reduce resources for the Senate, as well as the Senate has the opportunity to propose a reduction in resources for the Sejm Chancellery. But the Senate never did. In turn, the Sejm has been making such changes in the budget of the Senate Chancellery for several years, consisting in reducing its budget. So it's kind of a lack of trust. Unfortunately, and this year it was done similarly, and this reduction was clear. If I remember correctly, the decrease was elevated. I'd have to check it out again. Probably 17 million zlotys in total. So it's actually... And it really shouldn't have happened. But we have made a decision, given the difficult moment at hand, not to recommend amendments on this matter. The second amendment rejected by the committee was an amendment which consisted in the sum of PLN 1 billion 950 million which were earmarked in the state budget, in the form of bonds, to finance public media, i.e. radio and television... to simply convert these funds from... to leave the bonds, but to use for a different purpose, i.e. to finance the treatment of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. We felt that we should not do this, that we simply need to find another source of funding. And we have found another way to finance this amount to finance cancer treatment. So that we did not think that such an amendment should be introduced, but I explained this when discussing the amendments adopted. There was also an amendment from the Health Commission to create a new special-purpose reserve: financing during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of monthly salary allowance of 100% the amount of the monthly salary resulting from the contract of employment or from another contract under which the work is carried out, for the staff of medicinal and medical professionals and persons with whom contracts for the provision of health services have been concluded and which have been linked to the treatment of COVID-19. We have accepted, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance has adopted an amendment which concerns the financing of this task, but not in such a way that we immediately fix the amount of the subsidy, the amount of the allowance to remuneration, we considered that this decision should simply be a decision of the financial managers. Furthermore, we considered that the sources of funding for this amendment were not appropriate, and I justified it in the previous point. But, as a general rule, the amendment on this objective has been accepted. The same is true of the last amendment, including the Committee on Health, which we have not accepted. This amendment allocated PLN 120 million to combat complications and PLN 80 million to children's psychiatry. At that time, we felt that the source of the expenditure was wrong, too, and that is why we proposed a different solution. And that would in principle be the amendments, the effects of the committee's work that we are... we recommend you to accept or, in the case of amendments which the committee has not considered positively, to reject. I would also like to say that during the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we had the opportunity to discuss the state budget for 2021 at all. Minister of Finance, Minister Skuz, presented us with a budget law, and also presented all the assumptions regarding the economic situation this year, so in 2001, he also presented how the economy would operate this year. On this occasion, it is worth noting a few elements which are macroeconomic in nature. First of all, I'd like... it's all you have in the materials, everyone's had the opportunity and the chance to read the budget bill. This is the book that anyone can look into. She's... [[Senator, the reports are 20 minutes away. The subject is extremely important, but I would ask you to move slowly to conclusions.]] Mr Marshal, if you believe that everyone is familiar with this, I will, of course, move slowly towards the end of my report. Well, actually, I just wanted to say some cool, interesting things about this budget right now, because it was so marginal to deal with these things. What will happen in the economy this year will be very interesting, very important and relevant in the context of how we will function in the coming years. [[You're welcome.]] Will we be able to implement the plans presented that... They are optimistic plans, but they show that the situation in the economy is unfortunately serious. There's no jokes here, that's what you're gonna have to prepare for. The revenue of the state budget in this year is expected to be PLN 404 billion 484 million. It's a lot of revenue, but it's not a revenue that would indicate that there's a clear upward trend. We are after the 2020 experience... the year 2021, even though growth is planned, is not perfect. This year's expenditure is expected to amount to PLN 486 billion 784 million. From this it is clear that the deficit of the state budget this year will amount to as much as PLN 82 billion 300 million. It's a really big amount, a big deal. Such information should make us all aware of it so that we can look at it from the perspective of rational spending of money. That's why we in our amendments didn't have any quotas, we didn't create any big social programs like something plus, because we think the situation is serious. In fact, you'd have to think about how to get out of it. GDP fell by 4.6% compared to the previous year in 2020. That's a lot too. The European Commission estimates that this fall in 2020 was 3.6% They believe that the decrease was a little smaller. As it happens, we'll see from the exact calculations. The state budget envisages an increase in GDP for 2021 by 4%. It just means that this growth, even though it's next year, but from a lower base... Well, you can clearly see that there will actually be no effective growth. The European Commission expects that this increase will also be lower. They think it's gonna be a lower drop by 3.6%. , but also that growth will also be lower Only 3.3%. Unemployment will rise again. These may not be big, huge increases, but there is clearly this increase in unemployment in statistics. He was at the end of 2020 and in 2021 he will also be. The inflation forecast in the Budget Act is 1.8%. The feeling of citizens, of consumers, seems to be that this inflation is higher. This is already seen today after market reactions, in different situations, in shopping, etc. Hey, guys who still have cash... Part of it saves money is those who have less money. And those who have more resources and invest are afraid of risings of different kinds, especially the cost of fixed assets. And that's the final piece of information. Interesting thing is related to gross domestic product. Not many people pay attention to it, not much is known about it. What's his amount? What is the value of the gross domestic product developed by our compatriots? In 2020 this was the amount of PLN 2 trillion almost 235 billion. In 2021 there will be an increase compared to 2020, but in total very small, and this will be PLN 2 trillion 356 billion. This, of course, should be adjusted on base prices, etc., but I do not want to talk about it here. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] It would also be worth mentioning the budget issue, as we pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, that there are large public expenditures and public tasks which should be financed by the State budget and financed by bonds. We have repeatedly pointed out that this makes the budget opaque, unclear and so on. The amount of expenditure that is directly in the budget or in the around budget bill is PLN 24 billion, but the limit on the issue of bonds received by the government for the current year is PLN 204 billion. I think that, Mr. Marshal... [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal.]] Your marshal? Oh, that's what I could have said, because the marshal who said I should go, he's not here, and your marshal probably would've let me go. But I promised tonight, this year, it's gonna be short, so I'm finishing my speech, thanking your marshal and all the senators for taking this information. Once again, I recommend that the bill be adopted together with the amendments that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has drawn up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Now there will be a report of a minority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal is a proposal to adopt this law without amendment. We believe that the Law was correctly adopted by the Sejm, contains all the necessary elements, and the amendments to which I will refer in detail, the amendments which have been proposed, do not justify the need to return this law to the Sejm for further work. But maybe I should start by thanking the authors of these amendments, which we are asking for rejection, because it is difficult to find better evidence of appreciation for government policy, for the effectiveness of the measures being taken, as these proposed amendments are. In the proposed amendments, applicants increase the revenue of the state budget by PLN 8 billion 700 million, including VAT revenue by PLN 6 billion 250 million. Well, if this Polish economy were in bad shape if the government mismanaged this economy, it would be difficult to expect an increase in revenue. I am very pleased that the applicants share the views of the Senators of Law and Justice that we are dealing with stable public finances, that we are dealing with a well-run economy and that the government's actions are effective, but we ask the applicants to slow down their enthusiasm, because the data presented by the Ministry of Finance shows that, without increasing taxation, there is no chance of designing such an increase in tax revenues responsibly. This is a general comment on the source of funding for the proposed amendments. We believe that in 2021, when a country emerges from a covid crisis, designing such a significant increase in tax revenues is not appropriate. Finally, there is also a proof of recognition for the management and trust of the National Bank of Poland, as evidenced by a PLN 2.5 billion higher payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. The President of the NBP, when asked about this, replied that it is too early to design these changes, should stick to what was adopted, proposed by the management of the National Bank of Poland for budgetary assumptions. Only in April will the NBP have a reliable result, then it will be put to the vote of the Council of Ministers and then it will be possible to make any revaluations. Now it's hard to accept... Now it is difficult without data, reliable data to save revenues that are not documented. So there is a total of PLN 6 billion 250 million increase in VAT revenues, PLN 2.5 billion from the profit of NBP and finally there is PLN 200 million from the reduction in the cost of public debt service. I'd recommend caution here, too. Polish finances are in good condition, so they are evaluated by all external entities. The International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the credit rating agencies, all of them are very positive about our finances, sometimes we may even be surprised to accept the corrections they present. After all, recently the European Commission has significantly adjusted its value, positively adjusted the value of GDP decline in Poland. However, the question of securing the appropriations in the debt repayment budget should be carefully addressed and such a reduction in appropriations as has been correctly calculated by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the deadlines and maturity of the commitments that we have taken upon ourselves... It is not appropriate to reduce these resources, regardless of what high resources would be used for. Poland must be a reliable country, it must pay its debts on time and in the right size. But this budget is kind of a historical budget. This is a budget that talks about bringing our country out of the covid crisis in which we were in 2020. It is a great credit to the government that all social programmes that have been adopted are maintained and reinforced in 2021. In order to remind you of this, I would like to state that in 2021 we spend 41 billion PLN for the financing of the 500+. We increase spending on health finance to 5.3% GDP, budget expenditure in comparison with expenditure in 2020 is rising by PLN 11.6 billion. We ensure the valorisation of pension benefits from 1 March with a ratio of 103,84% which means that the total cost of this valorization is PLN 9.6 billion. We are carrying out the program "Good start" (PLN 1.4 billion). We increase the amount of care services, increase the financing of our country's defence needs to 2.2% GDP, we increase spending in higher education and science, finance tasks in the area of housing, road transport tasks, huge resources are spent on road infrastructure, rail infrastructure. All these programmes, the good programmes that have been launched in previous years, are continued in 2021, and this is the most important signal of government success in the fight against the crisis caused by the COVID virus. Polish finances are in good condition, stable and Poland will be able to rebuild its economic position in 2021, slightly compared to other countries affected last year. Thus, the general comments on the sources of funding for the amendments we propose to the High House to reject them all... If your marshal permits, I will now address myself in such a difficult way as my previous speaker, Senator Klein's colleague, to each of the amendments, so that the arguments relevant to why we are saying 'no', sound in this House, apart from the general information I have provided. Small matter, first amendment proposed by the rule board, increase of the Senate's expenditure by PLN 738 thousand. Is that a reason to send the budget bill back to the Sejm so that the country waits for the budget? 738 thousand PLN more for the Senate's operation? We believe that this is not the right message. I will even say more, Mrs. Marshal: this is a message that is harmful to the High House. We should not accept such an amendment. Finally, the second amendment, the amendment concerning the financing of associations, foundations, units not included in the public finance sector, out of PLN 10 million, from funds to be available to the Senate. This is an old case that Senator Klein has already mentioned. We're talking about restoring resources that were once at the Senate's disposal. [[Two years ago...]] Two years ago, yes. It's been good for two years. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I would very much like to ask...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's been working well for two years... I, Mrs. Marshal, don't mind, we work well together with Senator Kleina, so... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: But I would ask that, however...]] ...so that I can say that it even helps me explain here that it has been working well in the Prime Minister's firm for two years, and there are no signals to make it right. [[I'll tell you how well...]] Finally, the case... I'm glad to hear from Senator Borusewicz... [[I'll tell you how well it works.]] ...because he reminded me of an institution where... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask very much for peace in the room during the senator's relationship. For the time being, I am holding a sitting and I would very much like to ask you all to remain calm when the senator presents his report. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I've noticed I haven't been able to put the High House to sleep, so it's my success... Senator Borusewicz is probably well aware of the situation of the European Solidarity Centre in which the Council sits, and is likely able to confirm that the Ministry of Culture is fully fulfilling the agreement concluded in the creation of this centre, the financing agreement, and provides the funds in accordance with the agreement. 3 million PLN more for the European Solidarity Centre referred to in the proposal, i.e. non-contractual measures, let me remind you, non-contractual, resulting from the excessive kindness of some of the senators for this institution, which raises various controversies, whose actions raise various controversies, including among activists of Solidarity. So that the European Solidarity Centre has the funds provided in accordance with the agreement, and under that agreement it should create its financial plans. Finally, there is a group of amendments prepared by the Health Committee. The Health Commission is very optimistic about budget revenue and would like to allocate more resources to health-related tasks. We believe that sufficient resources are provided for health protection in the state budget and in the National Health Fund budget. In total, these expenditures are 5.3% gross domestic product. The NFZ budget is PLN 105 billion, 5 billion more than in 2020. The funds in the budget are guaranteed for health... Here growth this is an increase of 23%, yes, by 2025 Thus, funds are provided in the State budget and funds are provided in the National Health Fund budget, they fully cover the needs, health needs reported. That's it, ladies and gentlemen, my report. Of course, I remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Victor Durlak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My question may be addressed to Mr Kleina. Mr President, I would like to ask what is the sum of the expenditure on implementing the amendments proposed and adopted by the Committee on Budgets and what are the main sources of funding for them. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u9	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have given precise amounts for each amendment. Total amount, the value of which These are amendments, you said Senator Bierecki, this is the amount of about PLN 9 billion. [[And the main sources of funding...]] [[Voice from the room: Various.]] As far as sources are concerned, I've discussed every one of them. Part of it is income, tax revenue, tax revenue. The second big source is the increase in the income from payments from the National Bank of Poland. The others are transfers between different parts of the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, room 217. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Kleina. Mr. Senator, can you say something about the VAT gap for the 2021 budget? I ask because the VAT gap in 2020 increased and the minister from the budget for 2020 and for 2021 withdrew 13 billion. Anything about the budget revenue... Why is the VAT gap growing and how does it apply to the budget, how does it translate into a budget? Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u13	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u14	Mrs Marshal, Mr Senator, we did not discuss the VAT gap at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, so I believe that this question will have to be addressed to the Minister of Finance. He'll be able to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u15	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Senator Czerwinski...]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a specific question for Senator Kleina. In Amendment 5 you propose to reduce the amount at the disposal of the Institute of National Remembrance by PLN 80 million. What is the percentage of the current IPN budget? How many percent do you want to take away from the institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I was talking more about this amendment. I told you there'd probably be more than an auto-correction here than an amendment that would change the sources of funding. That $80 million would be... The IPN budget is PLN 400 million. So that would be the amount... [[Voice from the room: 20%.]] That would be 20%, right? But I think... [[That's an additional question, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u18	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u19	Which institution are you cutting... you want to cut the budget by 20% next year, that is, this year already?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u20	Senator, there have been a lot of ideas of this kind, but there are no more such amendments among the amendments that we have accepted. However, as I said, here is the intention of the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to make an amendment amending this provision or Let's say it is. It's a source of funding.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u21	Thank you very much. No further questions? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of Minister Sebastian Skuza. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u22	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present the budget law for 2021 adopted by the Sejm on 17 December 2020. The outbreak of the COVID pandemic in 2020 caused a negative shock, both on the supply side and on the demand side, of the unseen strength which has significantly affected the progress of macroeconomic processes in Poland and the world. Its main effect was the rapid slowdown of economic activity and the collapse of current trends in most macroeconomic categories. The situation triggered by COVID-19 forced the update of budgetary parameters already in 2020, resulting in the revision of the budget law and the launch of appropriate tools to combat the effects of the pandemic. The budget for 2021 has been prepared taking into account the macroeconomic situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, while supporting economic growth and the implementation of active family and social policies. The key parameters contained in the Budget Act are a consequence of the current macroeconomic situation and our expectations and forecasts of its development over the next few months. In the 2021 budget, we provide funds for both pro-investment actions, so necessary to further stimulate the economy as well as for the continuation of social programmes that also mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic. At the same time, the 2021 budget reflects one of the government's main priorities to ensure the sustainability of public finances. I am referring to the fulfilment of the fiscal rules contained in the Public Finance Act, as well as the respect of the reference value for nominal deficit and government debt. The present law for 2021 was based on macroeconomic assumptions of a rather conservative nature. We assume that the extensive government aid that started in 2020 and will continue this year, which aims to sustain the economic potential of the country by protecting jobs, protecting small and medium-sized enterprises, will alleviate the size of the recession in the economy. This year, therefore, economic growth should be restored, supported by an increase in the share of public, government and local investment. We assume that the gross domestic product will increase by 4% in 2021, which is similar to the average forecasts of the National Bank of Poland and the European Commission. It is within the range of market forecasts. It has been said that the European Commission has already verified these forecasts, but I would like to point out that the forecasts are also much better now. Well, for example. one of the Polish banks stated that the economic growth this year could be up to 5%. As regards the scope of the core labour market indicators, the budget law was adopted with the assumption that unemployment at the end of 2021 would be 7.5%. It was also accepted that the nominal rate of increase in average wages in the national economy would be in 2021. 3.4%. At the same time, an annual average price increase of 1.8% for consumer goods and services was assumed. in 2021. We assume that in the following years, the average annual inflation rate changes will gradually move towards the inflation target of the National Bank of Poland, i.e. 2.5%. We had a discussion on inflation at the budgetary committee meeting. I would just like to point out that the latest readings of inflation It can be said that such preliminary ones for 2020 showed a significant drop in December, a drop higher than our expectations. This inflation for December was 2.3%. This is very similar to the forecast contained in the revision of the budget law for 2020 and is 3.4%. The Budgetary Act assumes revenue of the state budget of about PLN 404.5 billion and expenditure of the State budget At PLN 486,8 billion. The maximum government budget deficit was therefore set at no more than PLN 82.3 billion. It should be borne in mind here that the amount of the deficit in the Budget Act is the maximum amount and the actual implementation of the budget may be at a lower level. This also depends on the execution of revenue and the implementation of expenditure, which is an absolute limit. The total revenue is forecast to amount to PLN 404.5 billion in 2021, as I said. The income side will be affected by further and new measures to support the recovery of economic growth. This year, tax revenues are forecast to rise by 5.5% after the expected drop in 2020 And they will amount to PLN 369.1 billion. There has already been a discussion here about the better implementation of the projected state budget in 2020. Yes, this execution is much better than the proposed amendment to the budget law thanks to much higher revenues. I can say that the deficit for 2020 will be even lower than I said at the budget committee meeting, it may be about 90 billion, as we presume. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is not yet the level of revenue that was planned in the original budget law for 2020, especially when we are talking here about revenue from the tax on goods and services. Non-tax income was also planned for the payment from the National Bank of Poland's profit of PLN 1 billion 300 million. I would like to point out here that the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland for about 20 years constitutes a non-tax revenue of the state budget, and the absence of payment in the approved budget law was due to forecasts provided by the National Bank of Poland. It's just the National Bank. Poland submitted a forecast that in a given financial year it would not achieve a profit, that it would have a loss, and therefore no profit payment was assumed. It wasn't supposed to be a blackhead reducing the deficit of the state budget. This is a non-tax revenue of the state budget, but these estimates are always based on data provided by the National Bank of Poland. This is how it was agreed for 2021. We are based on what the National Bank of Poland has handed over. The forecast of State budget revenue also includes the introduction of a new, pro-investment corporate tax system, modelled on the solution applied in Estonia, the effect of increasing the tax base by paying an additional annual cash benefit to pensioners, i.e. the so-called. 14th pension, and And it's related to the pandemic. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. As set out in the Budget Act, the limit on State budget expenditure for 2021 amounts to PLN 486,8 billion and is less than the limit laid down in the amendment of the Budget Law for 2020 by more than 21 billion, i.e. 4.2%. In this amount, we have secured funds for the continuation of priority actions, taking into account inter alia. increasing health expenditures to 5.3%, on science Here, too, we are based on projected inflation and GDP growth. and for national defence up to 2.2% GDP. In the 2021 budget, there has been a return to the application of the limits set by the stabilising expenditure rule, of course in a revised form due to the COVID pandemic. According to the return clause, half of the projected financial impact of actions directly targeted at halting the effects of the outbreak in 2020 has been taken into account. The deficit of the state budget, as I have already said, will amount to a maximum of PLN 82.3 billion, i.e. about 27 billion less than in the amendment of the budget law for 2020. As regards the planned deficit in the public finance sector, according to very prudential and conservative principles, the EU methodology is estimated at around 6%. gross domestic product. The debt of the public finance sector would be 52.7% gross domestic product. As regards the changes made during parliamentary work, the Sejm has minimally modified the government's submission as regards the income side. Revenues have been increased by just over PLN 43 million. This was a small change in the contribution of the National Health Fund and at the same time an increase in expenditure on the construction of the eHealth Centre, a new IT system. The amendments also resulted in an increase, a reduction and a shift in expenditure in the various budgetary parts, including the general reserve and the special provisions. These reductions were mainly made to align the budget with the around budget law and the budgets of the entities referred to in Article. 139 Public Finance Act, e.g. The office of the President, the Sejm and the Senate or the Institute of National Remembrance. This was linked to the adjustment of expenditure to the provisions of the Around Budget Act, in particular to the provision on the freezing of remuneration for 2021. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today's Budget Act is another step back on the growth path following the economic slowdown caused by the COVID pandemic. The objective of fiscal policy for this year is to promote economic recovery and return to growth while preserving the security of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Actually, Senator Bierecki made me ask that question. Well, Mr. Senator said that income growth this year is not possible unless there is an increase in taxes. So I'd like to ask the Minister, what is the tax increase we're going to have this year? Because it's not true that there won't be such growth. What taxes will be introduced, what fees? Because some of the taxes the state calls charges. What taxes will be raised in 2021? [[Mrs. Marshal, I must correct my colleague's statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u25	Now, wait a minute. [[I want to correct.]] So, Mr. Senator, for that question... [[Yeah, yeah, correct that question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u26	My comment was only about the increase in VAT revenue, as requested by the Senators of the amendments. Increase in VAT... I didn't think it was possible without increasing the tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u27	Would the Minister have said anything more? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u28	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the increase in total tax revenue is concerned, as I said, we are planning an increase of about 5.5%. in relation to the revision of the budget law for 2020. Among the new items that directly feed the budget is the so-called. retail, commercial tax of about PLN 1 billion 500 million. If I have understood Senator Bierecki's statement correctly, the point was that it is not possible and it is not intended to increase the forecast of budgetary revenue for 2021. I agree that it is better to assume here a more conservative and prudent assumption. And, as I have already pointed out, despite the rise in revenue, mainly from the tax on goods and services, in 2020, this is not yet the revenue that was planned in the original draft budget law for 2020. From what I remember, these revenues were planned at the level of about PLN 190 billion. We plan even lower revenues for 2021 It's going to be 181 billion. So I strongly agree with the position here that prudential income should be estimated. Even if these revenues were better, as in the previous year, they would simply reduce the borrowing needs of the State and the budget deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u29	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I get a refill? Mrs. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u30	If we are talking about these tax revenues and new taxes, perhaps the Minister would be willing to exchange these taxes. After all, not only is trade tax introduced in 2021, other taxes are also increasing. If the Minister had said a little bit more about this, however...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u31	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u32	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The so-called "introduction" will also be introduced. Estonian CIT, but this is not a new tax, but it is a new solution in corporate income tax. And here I can say that, in the case of this tax, the state budget in 2021 will have about 1 billion 400 million less revenue, already per balance, despite the increase due to economic growth... In the first year, since it is a very pro-investment tax, which assumes no taxation in the event of the retention of the dividend and its allocation to investment purposes, these receipts would be lower. As far as other taxes are concerned, I think the senator was referring to the sugar levy, which is not the revenue of the state budget, provides revenue to local government units and to the National Health Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u33	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u34	Minister! We cannot treat the budget in such a purely dogmatic sense, so I would like to ask what the Minister of Finance has in mind in view of the fact that we are expecting funds from the Reconstruction Fund and from the Next Generation EU Fund, namely special European funds. Are there forecasts on this issue? What is the opinion of the Minister of Finance on the impact of these funds on the state of public finances in Poland? What are the counts when do you think we can expect the first transfers? In most European countries, these issues are related to overcoming the economic crisis and are included as part of the state strategy, which is why I am asking. And is the Minister of Finance prepared to declare that he will be regularly informed about this matter by the Senate? I think the Sejm, too, but we are particularly interested in information for the Senate cyclically folded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u36	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to point out that the budget law does not contain solutions, including financial solutions, related to the National Reconstruction Plan. At a time when the draft budget law was being prepared, there were not yet such, one can say, more well-known and binding assumptions as to what the new financial perspective will look like. And he's prepared based on the old financial perspective. And certainly such a strategy, which part of the Ministry of Finance is working on, but the one more connected with the former Ministry of Funds, is absolutely necessary. And the information on the planning and spending of the Fund for Reconstruction is as much public information as possible, so, I think, there will be no problem with providing such information. I can say that in part of the Ministry of Finance, we are currently working on possible flows, on how the flows from the National Plan for Reconstruction would be shaped, whether they should be included directly in the state budget or in the budget of European funds. We're still working on it at this stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u37	Thank you very much. Please take the floor and ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I'll repeat the question I asked Senator Kleina. I mean the VAT gap and how it fits into the new budget for 2021. What do you think the government believes has caused the VAT gap to rise in 2020 and the Minister withdrew 13 billion zlotys of savings due to the VAT gap in 2020 and 2021? And how does that fit the budget? Why is the VAT gap growing? She was supposed to be getting smaller. What is the cause of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u39	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of the VAT gap has already emerged in the course of work on the around budget law. And I would like to point out here again that there is still no estimate of this gap for 2020. These are some kind of preliminaries, off the record. And de facto, at this point in time, this is not possible. I am absolutely not familiar with the situation in which the government would verify revenue due to the rise of the VAT gap and reduce it by PLN 13 billion. The estimated amount of VAT adopted in the Budget Act reflects the planned economic map indicators. VAT gap, which is currently, according to recent estimates, about 12% , is very close to the average in the European Union. I can only remind you that a few or several years ago this gap in Poland was higher, to the disadvantage, than the average VAT gap in the EU countries by about 10 percentage points, and I think that this could not be explained only by the economic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u42	Minister, if you'd just... I think you've already given me this data, but if you could finally How do you estimate the final budget deficit for 2020? And how do you assume that the change in GDP from 2020 to 2019 will ultimately be?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u43	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u44	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, the 2020 deficit will be closer to PLN 90 billion, such a government of magnitude... We don't have the final data yet, but I think I can say that now. As for GDP at current prices, at the level of the adoption of the budget law, these figures would be: 2 trillion 356 billion 100 million in 2021 and 2 trillion 234 billion 600 million in 2020, following the revision of the budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u45	Thank you very much. And, please, once again, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u46	If the Minister had repeated... 'Cause I didn't hear it. And then I'm gonna ask you right away... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Of course, now, now...]] I'm not just asking for a deficit. I have noted 90 billion but also a change in GDP. And I would also ask you to give me the amounts that have been in the recently revised version of the budget for 2020. So what was the budget deficit assumed in the last version of the revised budget? And what was GDP supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u47	I'll tell you what. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The deficit envisaged in the revision of the budget law is about 109 billion, the implementation is about 90 billion. [[And then there's GDP.]] The GDP projected in the revision of the Budget Act in terms of GDP at current prices is 2 trillion 234 billion 600 million, in 2021 2 billion 356 billion 100 million. [[What about the percentage?]] As a percentage, real GDP is already in place. Yes, real GDP would be 4.6% on the downside in 2020 and in the revision of the budget law, plus 4% in 2021. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u48	Thank you very much. Anybody else? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you, thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that in discussions on the Budget Act, senators are not allowed to submit applications for rejection of the Act, because according to the article. 223 of the Constitution of the Senate may adopt amendments to the Budget Act within 20 days of the date on which it was handed over to the Senate. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u49	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I am very pleased to be the first to be present in this debate, but also the subject I will be talking about, and the importance of health is undoubtedly the most important. The Health Commission has therefore prepared a number of amendments aimed at increasing funding for health protection. We all know that the budget law is the heart of the government's activities and priorities that are set for the following year. Personally, I do not see the government pointing out that such a priority for him is the health system and health of Poles, and, after all, depending on what funds will be allocated to all health protection, this will also be the system next year. What happened in 2020 i.e. The epidemic and the fight against the coronavirus many times here in this room we have repeated this It was an incredible challenge, but at the same time it exposed the whole health system. The challenges we have for 2021 are not only to combat the epidemic and to immunize our citizens as soon as possible in order to strengthen immunity against the COVID-19 virus, but above all to combat the collapse that we have in health care, and to combat all other diseases that have been as if frozen in recent months. Unfortunately, access to early diagnostics as well as access to scheduled procedures or even treatment of individual chronic conditions has slowed down strongly, and in some cases even detention. All of this will come together in the following year. We need to be aware that in addition to the normal rate of illness that we have every year... There will be an additional challenge to all of this, so the treatment of all the diseases that unfortunately were postponed last year. The second challenge, superstitious, concerns an increase in mortality. As an example, we had 60,000 deaths in November 2020, twice as many as a year ago. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, these were not deaths caused by COVID-19, they were primarily deaths caused by other diseases. This is a huge challenge. If we in this Chamber do not make it clear that 2021 must be a groundbreaking year in terms of health protection, it means that we do not see this problem, and we will not see it without increasing funding, an additional increase in funding, because the fact that, according to laws, money is spent on health protection is true and there is no doubt about it. But there's another problem. When discussing the state budget, we do not discuss in full the financial implications we have for health protection, because the basis for financing health benefits is the National Health Fund. What will be the contribution the next year, what will be the proceeds to the National Health Fund, we can only predict, because we don't really know what the economy will look like next year. So the more we talk about the economy and about its role to grow, we need to talk about health, because without a healthy society, we can't lift up the economy. And I think that's understandable. But I'll get back to the National Health Fund. The budget, the financing of health from the budget is only one element. According to the so-called. Act 6% GDP for health in 2021 we are talking about the budget... of an increase of 5.3% GDP. But it's just a statutory record. How is it implemented? The most important thing is that part of the money, which of this percentage of GDP will influence the fund, is reduced by the so-called. health expenditure that is implemented from the State budget. Year by year these health expenses are increasing. They also grow this year. Therefore, in the current project that we have for 2021, health expenditure, which is recorded as being implemented from the state budget, increases from PLN 13 billion to PLN 22 billion. What does that mean? The Minister's head is nodding. Yeah, they're growing. Only that the impact on the National Health Fund will be 9 billion PLN less. What's in all the health expenses? In these health expenditures there are provisions such as: health insurance contributions financed from the relevant parts of the budget, specialization training By the way, the question is, if the number of residents increases The funding of medicines for pregnant women, medicines for people aged 75+. It would appear that these are also elements related to the financing of general public health. However, please bear in mind that the lack of influence of this money, this 9 billion PLN, will make the funds spent on health services very limited. And it will be next year that they will form the basis of the National Health Fund's activities and all those involved in the fight against chronic diseases, oncology, cardiological, psychiatric and all other diseases whose treatment has unfortunately been stopped this year. The release of 1/3 less DiLO cards, i.e. accelerating oncology treatment, the treatment that allows for the oncology system, is proof of the great challenge we are facing this year. It is similar with cardiovascular disorders. Heart failure has become the most common cause of death for active people, so this is another challenge. Cardiologists have been calling for a national healthy heart program for several years to provide comprehensive diagnostics and treatment. At the meetings of the Health Committee, we have always heard that there is no money for this in a given year, in a given budget. So this is the moment. Either we put an extra center in the system and do everything we can to help it and make it visible, or once again we say it's a priority, but without financial support. And that's the choice. There's another element I'd like to draw attention to. Namely, various types of special reserves or funds appear more and more often. There's a Justice Fund where money comes from, depending on what needs are. I think that the Medical Fund, from which you can give and for prevention, and for health benefits, is also constructed similarly, but the special reserve, which is written into this Medical Fund... In fact, no one can be entirely sure that it will be used precisely to solve health problems. It gives rise to great fear, because it is money that can also be used for other purposes. Out of these special reserves, my concern was also raised by the special reserve for the Agency for Medical Research. We all agree that this is a very important direction. Just remember. And this is where I address the Minister. That the Agency for Medical Research, which distributes resources for innovative methods, for innovative drugs, operates without the Act on Clinical Trials, and this should be the basis for spending funds on the Agency for Medical Trials... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator...]] I'm almost done. I would therefore like, with all my power to stress that the challenges and problems facing us in health care... These problems, of course, caused the virus, caused total havoc in the health system and the need for financial support. I ask the High House to consider whether it is better for each of you to spend money on a new airport, which maybe will start someday, or on some new TV show, than to use it for health purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to address Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This budget is, of course, a very specific budget and, I admit, very difficult to put together because of the scale of the unknown. However, these basic economic parameters must be assessed. On the one hand, this assessment is a bit of an academic discussion, and economists are always discussing whether the assumptions regarding the growth of gross domestic product, inflation, unemployment, etc. they are well-accepted and, on the other hand, it has a practical translation, because depending on the assumptions we will make in this regard, they will translate into budgetary positions, will translate primarily into revenue increases and partly into expenditure increases. We must therefore assess these assumptions. I am not here to deal with all the amendments that have been here, to justify them, etc. They will be justified and promoted by my colleagues here. I just want to focus on two things. Firstly, on the sources of funding, secondly, on this expenditure group, which Senator Małecka-Libera was just talking about. I'm gonna look at it a little bit. That is, about health expenses. Sources of funding. In this regard, Senator Bierecki ironically stated that these assumptions, which were adopted in the amendments, these sources The increase in VAT revenues as well as the increase in payments from the National Bank of Poland This is proof of how well and how well the government governs. I'm not going to talk about whether the government is running smoothly or inefficiently, there are many other opportunities to do so. It seems to me that once it's working and once it's not working. And as for these sources... Well, the draft budget was prepared somewhere in the middle of the year and submitted at the end of September. Ever since then, anything's changed. Well, as the Minister himself admitted, while standing here just now, tax revenue will be at least 6 billion higher by the end of 2020 than was anticipated by that project. As a result, the planned revenue for 2021 was necessarily related to a lower base. This has to be taken into account, this is 6 billion zlotys. But that's not the end of it. We have been talking here about the rate of GDP growth. The Minister himself said that the assumptions that were adopted were at the average level of different research centres. It's been adopted more or less average, but it's already forecasting more today. Well, of course we can discuss this, but I read the interview that Mr Paweł Borys, head of the Polish Development Fund, gave. Mr Paweł Boris, who really needs to be treated as an expert in these matters, said that he expects a 5% increase in GDP next year. Of course, we are talking about growth in real terms. That's one thing. Let me put it this way: we have the right to expect this growth to really be bigger. I assume, of course, that the vaccination programme will be carried out intensively, not as it has been so far, but Minister Dworczyk, Prime Minister Morawiecki and others ensure that this will improve, so we take this into account. Secondly, when it comes to inflation, it's him... Although the 1.3 deflator is used here, not 1.8, as is the case with the increase in consumer prices, it does not change the form of things. This is a very low indicator. In fact, all economists agree that it is understated and therefore GDP growth at nominal prices will be higher. And finally, what might be the most interesting thing about all of this. Well, we had a whole propaganda campaign here a few years ago about the fact that the fight against various types of VAT fraud and fraud brought enormous results. Some fantastic numbers were exchanged, about 100 billion, 200 billion, etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is it. and this has been examined over the years That if the growth of the gross domestic product accelerates, i.e. the increase in gross domestic product is e.g. 2% , then 3%, and next year 4% This increase in tax revenue, especially with VAT, accelerates even more. In turn, if the rate of this growth is decreasing gradually, i.e. 4%, 3%, 2%, then the increase in VAT revenues is decreasing even more strongly. And it's been confirmed in over 20 years. What were we dealing with before the rule of law and justice? We were faced with an economic crisis, with a certain downward trend in gross domestic product, which resulted in a stronger drop in tax revenue. What were we dealing with after 2015? Back economics, with faster GDP growth and an even faster increase in VAT revenues. And why is that? Because companies, especially the smaller ones, in a situation where the economy gets worse, have more and more difficulties with the sale, have more and more difficulties with paying taxes, and often run away into the grey zone. Therefore, VAT revenues fall much faster. At a time when the economy returns, as demand increases, when the potential for increasing production is increasing, these companies, you can say, come out of the shadows. They come out of the shadows because you just don't pay off in it, the risk is too big. I do not deny that some actions, such as the introduction of the Single Control File, have produced some results, but in general the trend is this. And what trend will we face next year? It is precisely with the acceleration of GDP growth. In 2020 there was a decrease of around 3% and in 2021 a 4% increase is assumed. I already said that this respect is probably a little low, but the increase in VAT should be clearly faster. As you can count it all together, you can see that this increase in tax revenue, especially with VAT, is clearly understated. The amount that we have adopted in the amendments, which is 6 billion 250 million, is only part of this increase that is likely to happen. As for the National Bank of Poland, I will say that this billion with a piece that is founded was probably defined in September. Well, do I have to remind you that at the end of last year President Glapiński, to the general surprise, took action to weaken the golden course and that this weakening of the golden course in a very important way will affect the financial result of the National Bank of Poland? According to my accounts, probably about 10 billion. That's not what we're proposing. We're offering two and a half. , maybe 2.8 billion, because there's gonna be some more minor adjustments. So all of this has to be taken into account. And at the end of the day, you have to ask yourself that question. Should we, knowing all this, direct this money to reducing the deficit, or should we use it for other purposes? Well, if the situation were really good in some areas, it would probably have to be done as it was in the first case, but it is not. This applies to cases such as: Remote teaching is a proposal for amendments in this area But above all, health. And as for health, ladies and gentlemen... Senator Libera-Malecka has said a lot about this here. There's only one thing I want to say. The government has committed itself to ensuring that health expenditure on gross domestic product is systematically increased to 6%. Well, just that because we had a big drop in GDP, the percentage went down. I can give you an example. If annual expenditure on health does not increase but GDP falls by half, the ratio of this expenditure to GDP will double. Does that mean that health needs have been met? No, of course not. And when we do the bill pulled and we figure out how much should be spent in 2021 if it weren't for the pandemic. And the pandemic, by the way, also increases needs This turns out to be a shortage of PLN 8.10 billion. The increase in expenditures by the previous year - 122 to 117 - is only 5 billion. So... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done. These proposals, which have been put forward here, do not even amount to this amount of 8 and 10 billion. I completely agree that the pandemic has revealed all the weaknesses of the Polish health system. At this point, there's a chance that, well, it may not immediately eliminate them, but take a powerful step forward in this area. To conclude, the sources of funding proposed here were proposed not on the basis of data taken just like that, from the ceiling, but on the basis of careful calculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u52	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the amendment tabled at the committee meeting on the increase in education subsidies. I think that if I asked all of you senators whether the amount of education subsidies in their municipalities was sufficient to cover the costs of educational tasks under educational law, I think the answer would be that they did not. Since the transfer to local authorities of educational establishments, the educational part of the general subsidy has increasingly reduced the costs of these tasks, including the necessary costs of teachers' salaries, forcing municipalities to cover the financial gap each year. In turn, the reform introduced in recent years has resulted in an increase in personal costs, as there has been a series of increases for teachers Without the government providing full financial compensation to local governments. In addition, there has been an increase in the number of teaching posts resulting from the reform being implemented, with a decrease in the number of pupils in primary schools, and this has also been a significant burden on municipal budgets. It is also not true to say that the municipalities are falling in current costs due to fewer students, because we know very well that the costs create the number of branches in the school, not the number of pupils. The education subsidy for 2021 under the budget law adopted by the Sejm is to amount to over PLN 52 billion and is more than 2 billion higher than that of 2020. This means an increase of 4.3%. However, growth does not mean a better financial position of local government units in the performance of educational tasks, on the contrary, local authorities will again have to pay for underestimated education. The financial standard A, i.e. the amount per student used for the distribution of educational subsidies between local governments, amounts to PLN 6 000 110 in 2021, last year it was PLN 5 000 917 with a penny. Annually, the amount of subsidies is increasing, but local governments still feel the lack of funding for education funding. This is mainly due to the fact that the subsidy does not cover in full even teachers' salaries. The subsidy for 6-year-old children, which emerged in 2017, also did not contribute to improving the situation in education. Today we know that the past year has been very difficult for local governments. 2021 will also bring many challenges and problems in terms of resources spent on educational tasks. Despite the lack of planned wage increases for teachers, the salaries of administrative and service workers will certainly increase due to the increase in the minimum wage. There will also be increased expenditure on the functioning of schools, media, rents, teaching aids, implementation of recommendations. and other expenditure, resulting from the need to ensure safe learning and working conditions, as well as to carry out tasks such as psychological, pedagogical assistance provided, which, as we know, may be more necessary after the pandemic than usual. There will be more spending on delivering students or extracurricular activities in kindergartens. Many local authorities will be affected by the increase in grants to schools and non-governmental institutions, in particular public ones, and the costs associated with leave for health insurance or retirement or compensatory benefits. According to the calculations of the Association of Polish Cities, the underestimation is about PLN 5.3 billion. The effects of the increases have not been taken into account again in the subsidy. There is a comparative material from 2018, 2019 and 2020, which shows that this gap is already almost PLN 5 billion, and only concerns increases in teacher's salaries, does not apply to other educational expenditures. During last year's discussion on the funding of education, which took place at the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, the Minister of Education presented 2 main arguments for the fact that local governments have something to finance or finance education. One is that education subsidies increase annually, and the other is that local government units report a steady increase in non-subventional income, mainly from their share of PIT and CIT. However, data on income from PIT and CIT taxes for local governments point to a sharp drop in income from this, and increased education subsidies in the current situation are not even enough to cover teachers' wages in full. In addition, due to the financial crisis caused by Coronavirus, the solution to funding education begins to be an urgent matter for local government officials, as municipalities and powiats no longer have anything to add to these tasks. Finally, it is necessary to decide what the financing of individual tasks at different levels of the local government should be like, today, when, despite the numerous calls of local governments for change, we are still in a poor system of education subsidies, on the basis of which a gigantic and deepening financial gap has been created over recent years. The amendment made at the committee meeting concerning the increase in resources for the implementation of educational tasks set out in the budget law may, at least to a small extent, affect the quality of Polish education and relieve local self-government units from spending their own budgets on local education, while at the same time carrying out other tasks for the benefit of the community and the local environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! A large part of Poles still believe that Polish financial problems fall within the size of the budget deficit, the amount of which is 87 billion PLN. They still hear about the billions that this government has recovered, for example. from the VAT mafia, but also about tens of millions of zlotys, which this government slightly throws into the mud, e.g. for the production of papers, for the elections which were known to not be held, for the purchase of masks or respirators, which never arrived in Poland or were not suitable for use, for the extraction of millions of tons of coal, which nobody needed to rely on heaps in different places of Poland, or for the guarding of abrasives which, according to the Prime Minister's promises, are supposed to turn into the largest airport in Europe. More and more Poles are frightened not only by the light treatment of public money, but above all by the fact that this money is missing where it is very necessary and, more importantly, where it should be. If the government were to take local governments seriously and in accordance with the Constitution, if it had not charged them with the cost of their decisions, it would have to add at least PLN 15 billion to the budget deficit today. If this government paid debts to hospitals, which are not the result of the poor work of their directors, but the application of the constitutional right of each Pole to health protection, it would have to add another 15 billion PLN to the budget deficit. I can calculate many obligations that you are not fulfilling today in the field of education, veterinary services, flood protection related to the exclusion of communication and environmental quality, including air, the degree of pollution of which it is so great that 40,000 Poles die from it every year. If we were to count all of this, it might turn out that the budget deficit should not be 87 billion, but 150 billion, or maybe 200 billion zlotys. Therefore, with a feeling of shame for the Polish government, I listen to the minister complaining that 900 amendments were tabled to the budget in the Sejm. If you wanted to implement these amendments, how the minister complains, you would have to liquidate the Polish army, the Council of Ministers or the office of president. Unfortunately, that is the truth, Minister, either-or: either the government carries out its duties, or it is fit for liquidation. High Senate, this is no megalomania or the fault of the wojettes or directors of various institutions, that they are asking Members and Senators for financial support for their investments, because they are unable to make these investments out of their own resources. And they can't, because their budgets have been stripped off so that you can boast today that they have only 87 billion deficits in the budget. Only in my region, Warmia and Mazury, local authorities have asked me to support 50 proposals to the state budget. It's not much. If we compare this with the number of 45 municipalities that have not received a penny from the local investment fund, which, like everyone else, we know has become a party fund, not a fund to support local governments... In fact, my region received only 3% of the funds from this fund. Where did the rest of the money go? In other voivodships or in many voivodships, the situation is similar, and I will remind you that local governments have recently implemented more than half of the public investment in Poland, half of Poland is built by local governments, because it is necessary to talk about it in the past time, it will not be. Therefore, the minister who says that making so many amendments on behalf of local governments is an expression of irresponsibleness is very wrong. It is irresponsible to deprive local governments of their ability to meet the needs of their residents, including investment needs. Therefore, the Senators of the Civic Coalition, independent Senators and Left Senators and PSL do not apply for the liquidation of the state structures for the time being and will not take away money, although Donald Trump's sympathizers, who are not lacking on the right hand side, should be reminded that at the turn of 2018 and 2019 the US government offices were deprived of budget resources for 35 days. Perhaps the Polish government and some political environments could also benefit from such a lesson. So far, we have not tabled 600 amendments that have come to us, but only about 100, and on the value of not 10 billion, but about 1 billion PLN. This limitation alone is proof of our responsibility, among others. for state institutions. This is a compromise between the needs of society and the duty to maintain state structures. I hope that this attitude will meet with respect and understanding of the Senators of Law and Justice, as well as Members of this formation, and that these amendments that we are proposing today will be included in the budget of Poland for 2021. The support of these amendments by the Senate as a whole would prove responsibility for Poland, this Poland closest to its citizens. Therefore, I ask for support for the amendments that we make on behalf of local Poland and regional Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In connection with the state budget in all laws, case law and comments, the principle of public disclosure of the State's financial activities is highlighted in the draft budget. It is also stressed that the public should be fully informed about the sources of budgetary revenue and expenditure. In a democratic state, citizens have the right to control the spending of power. Unfortunately, there is a strong belief that the state budget for 2021 is controlled in a way that deprives citizens of reliable information about state expenditure and, in principle, about state spending opportunities. Minister Sebastian Skuz, whom I very much appreciate for his openness and truthfulness, said at the committee meeting that the implementation of the state budget, as assumed, would be at a minimum of PLN 410 billion. The documents refer to PLN 402 billion, and there are 398 billion 600 million. What does that mean? This means that the tax base, tax revenue in 2021, is understated. Absolutely we have the opportunity to think publicly and openly. Not later on, the decision to be implemented by amending the budget in the course of the financial year, how to manage and how fairly, fairly, transparently and openly in the budgetary procedure in Parliament to divide this money. The same is true in the context of the NBP's profit. It's not a secret. I just read an interview on 5 January with the president of Glapiński, who boasts about it. The NBP's foreign exchange rate operations allow for the assumption of a significantly higher profit for the NBP from its proceeds. This would be a profit not at the assumed level of 2 billion or perhaps even less than 2 billion zlotys, but at the level of at least 4 billion zlotys. Why am I talking about this? In order to show that the proposals we are making are responsible proposals based on the actual verified economic opportunities of the state. I even ignore the fact that all experts believe that inflation is low, and the European Commission estimates it at 2%. Now that we are convinced that we can fairly share what will be in this budget, let me say here that a few of these amendments have been tabled. One of these amendments is an amendment increasing by about PLN 300 million expenditure on the purchase of equipment, teaching aids and here important attention to the purchase of the Internet, the possibility of receiving the internet, the purchase of Internet access services for children and young people. The most delicate estimates say that as a result of the spring lockdown, we lost a dozen thousand children. These are different problems. I'm sure you've all had these conversations in your senator's office, and so have I. Some of the kids didn't have the equipment, partly managed to solve it, not all the time perfectly, and some of the parents were ashamed to say, "What if I have the equipment?" I can't afford to buy Internet access for a child. Teachers say: The process of remote teaching is another form of teaching. We all say that education, education of the young generation is the future of the nation. If, therefore, we are faced with a dramatic situation where the education system has had to radically change as a result of a pandemic, it is the responsibility of the state to provide the tools for this change to be possible. Unfortunately, I have the impression that in this project, just as health care has been forgotten, as has already been mentioned in the context of additional expenditures, e.g. for the treatment of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, the fight against infectious diseases, medical support or health care It's all very important tasks that need to be done. Is the treatment of complications after COVID, or the support of child psychiatry, where we deal with a systemic collapse... I encourage you to read the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which has shown this tragic, systemic collapse. Unfortunately, we still have to remember those who live not in big cities, but in the countryside. There are two extremely important amendments here. It was the Senate quite recently, in December, with no objection, who supported the initiative of the pension allowance for volunteer firefighters who had been active in the ministry for 20 years. If we have all voted in favour, then we must also provide money to finance these allowances. That's why it's this position. I hope that all those who voted in favour of this bill will now support this amendment in order to be in line with their own choice. There's another organisation in rural areas that's extremely important. The circles of the country housewives. A few years ago, there was a very cool initiative, opportunities to finance the wheels from the funds of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. So what? You divide people because you've introduced a division into better and worse circles of country hostess, those registered with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which can get money, and those children of a worse god who can't get money. You made a provision that there might be one near the country housewives in the country. In large villages sometimes there are two or more of them, and then only one, which came forward first, receives funding. That is why we propose a government programme to finance the rural hostel circles, which will support those wheels that are not registered with the restructuring agency. These, as estimates show, are even more than those registered in the AriMR. That money would go to government. It is the local government that would transfer these funds, the local government would also account for them. We are after consulting the mayors, the mayors, who said that they would be very willing to accept these responsibilities, as they are currently in contact with these organizations. And, ladies and gentlemen, what was said. If we are talking about supporting everyone because the pandemic affects everyone, then why did you skip almost all the big cities in Poland in the second tranche of the Government Local Investment Fund? Group of amendments so-called regional, which we report, compensates for this apparent injustice. I'm going to refer to an example that I know best. The smallest municipality in the Łódź voivodship, with several thousand inhabitants, received financing for 3 projects under the so-called. The second tranche, and that's good. But the city of Łódź with 760 thousand inhabitants did not receive any money for one project. Not a single project. The city of Łódź received even zero money from the Government Local Investment Fund in the so-called. The second tranche. As a result of these political choices, there have been such absurd situations that you are now carrying out the necessary investment, the S14 road, so-called. the western ring road of Łódź, only that as part of this investment probably the most important convention, so-called. You build the Theophile node in such a way that you will be able to exit towards a small village lying west of Łódź, namely Aleksandrów Lodzkie, and there will be no entry from Łódź and exit to Łódź. It's hard to believe. Therefore, one of the regional amendments that I tabled with Senator Dunin concerns the use of money for the expansion of the Theophile node on the S14 expressway. The documentation is, the work is underway now, you can sign an annex to the contract with the contractor and ensure that this node is not a laughing stock of Poland's road. Everyone who drives through central Poland knows the traffic jams in which they stand, driving down Strykowska street from Łódź to the north-south and east-west motorway junction. Therefore, there are also funds for the extension of Strykowskia Street, which should be completed long ago. I ignore the smaller tasks, but not less important for local communities, such as the Novosolna bypass, the Brzezin bypass or the renovation of tram tracks on the Łódź route, Konstantynów Łódzki or on the Łódź route. Minister Sellin is in the courtroom. I am sure she will be pleased that we are also proposing an amendment concerning the creation of the Polish Comedy Centre, i.e. the revitalisation of the Powszechny Theatre in Łódź in the form of projects of the Regional Theatre Education Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget may be better, because fortunately we know that there are also revenues in it that you have not taken into account. The responsibility of the Senate is wise, responsible, well divided. That's what I'm doing. I am firmly convinced that we will be able to do so if we accept the amendments that have been proposed. And I'm calming down everyone who's worried about this budget. I assure you that each of these amendments is financed, covered by influences. In fact, we are facing you so that you do not compromise yourself with the changes to this draft budget in the coming months. And I say this not literally, because I will only quote one statement from the Minister of Finance from the middle of last year, Minister Kościński, who said: the deficit of the state budget will be at the level of PLN 109 billion 300 million. What's the deficit, you already know. He's significantly shorter. And I assume that we will have the same situation this year, because these are the opinions, the voices of experts and analysts who analysed the draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u58	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I firmly believe that the budget should follow the state strategy, not the state strategy following the budget. The more we move away from the model that was formed in Poland, that we talk about it in purely dogmatic terms, separated from the objectives of state policy, the better it will be for us. The state strategy does not arise in a vacuum. It's based on experience. What are the experiences of this extraordinary time of overcoming the pandemic? This is the experience of revealing very low quality public services in Poland. This should be a shame for the whole political community. First of all, it is about the state of health care and the problems or the radical problems that Polish education, Polish teachers, Polish young people have to deal with. It is very sad that Poles are attached to the state in a symbolic sense, but do not believe in the quality of public services. It is therefore our fundamental duty to take this action, to try to modernise the key goods of citizens, the interests of citizens of public services, above all health services. Its modernisation is not possible without an increase in expenditure, and therefore the Senate is required to make amendments to the increase in health expenditure. Senator Małecka-Libera explained that very well. This also applies to education during the pandemic period, which, as President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski mentioned, left outside its system an important part of children and young people without online tools, tools of modern technology. The response to this is the amendment tabled, recommended by President Kwiatkowski, concerning PLN 300 million for purchasing equipment and helping children and young people to participate in teaching. This is a public-interest response that responds to the basic needs of citizens. I would very much like the senators of the governing camp to seriously consider the arguments behind these amendments. The challenge of combating pandemics is also to seek synergies, to seek unity. The governing camp in Poland chose such a strategy of action alone. How does it end? How many legislative errors? We've experienced this in the last year. In fact, the Senate has served as the last aide to deal with many legislative errors. It could be avoided. This could be avoided if, in such an emergency, cooperation actions were taken to promote synergies. There was talk of a very important field: cooperation with local governments. It is impossible to fight the epidemic and to rebuild the economy after the epidemic without cooperation with local governments. I am not exactly a politician who would declare that the central functions of the state must be removed. The central functions of the State should not be removed. The lesson of the epidemic on a European scale shows that the state is essential. But on the other hand, we need a flexible state, a state that assumes cooperation between the centre and local governments, an expansion of trust and not a reduction of trust. I strongly urge that at least a part of the amendments should be mentioned by Senator Halina Bieda, who supports local governments, or actually eliminates the excessive burden imposed on local governments, to be seriously discussed by the governing coalition. And the last point is that there is a great deal of European resources that many in Europe are trying to do. Actually, all parliaments are debating it. We were before the outbreak of the pandemic in Italy, and that was the central part of the discussion in the Italian Parliament. I, to tell you the truth, have not heard a serious answer to my questions to Minister Skuza. Because the fact that we will know what these funds will be spent on is clear. But this debate should continue because these measures can be spent in different ways for different purposes. In fact, this discussion between the government and the business world exists, but it is hidden from the chambers of parliament, and this is an extremely important sphere. This is a sphere in which the local government should be invited not for consultation, but for co-decision, because these measures cannot be effectively spent without the individual participation of the local government, but rather not as an institution with which it consults, but as an institution which co-decides on the implementation options, on the types of expenditure. This will be defended by the Senate, not in defence of the sovereignty of the government over the state, but in defence of the public interest, which requires cooperation between the government and the local government, between the government and the world of social institutions, parties to social dialogue. So please consider these amendments primarily as an expression of concern that the budget should not be passive, not reactive. Senator Bierecki says: "Enough for health care." Well, to sustain existence, yes. But so that we can say in a decade's time that there is no distance between Polish and German and Scandinavian health services, we need an active policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As every year, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, in accordance with its competences, gave its opinion on the budgets of the Sejm Chancellery, the Senate Chancellery, the National Election Office and the Office of the President of the Republic. The Commission, after listening to the Minister, the head of the National Election Office, gave a positive opinion on the budget of this office. There was no controversy. The same was true of the budget of the Sejm Chancellery. In a brief discussion, the senators drew attention, among others. to the decision of the Sejm's majority. It was a decision which, contrary to accepted unwritten standards and customs, intervened in the budget of the Senate Chancellery, reducing the original budget by PLN 10 million, which were earmarked for the statutory mission of the Senate, funds for the care of Polonia and Poles abroad, and by PLN 9 million 800 thousand, which were in the budget of the Senate Chancellery for current expenditure. This is not a good practice. We had an opinion on the budget of the Sejm Chancellery without retortion. We could also try to find some wrong or over-expenditure, but we did not do so by respecting the Sejm's autonomy and good customs to take their budgets seriously. The most difficult challenge was the debate of the Senators of the Rules Committee on the President's Chancellery's budget, for several reasons, mainly communication. The Senators, by redrafting the Senate's rules of procedure, have created the possibility that, in exceptional situations, I stress: exceptional ministers, guests, experts can participate in meetings remotely. This exceptional privilege was enjoyed by the head of the President's firm, but in an unprofessional way, which caused communication with the Minister to be In fact, it's pretty general. Very, very bad. We haven't been able to get answers to a lot of questions. Also earlier requests from the committee to explain in detail the proposal of the President's Office's budget, which were inconsistent, non-transparent and often contradictory in various correspondence Other in the draft budget, other in the materials sent to the committee... This could not be explained because, as I said before, the President's Office unprofessionally approached communication and communication with the Senate. The Commission in this difficult situation, also considering the constraints it should impose on its government in the course of the pandemic and crisis Each authority, including individual law firms, considered in the course of its work that the funds originally intended to be allocated to the Senate in an agreed manner, also during the previous term of office... It means that we will try to ensure that the means necessary for the performance of the duties of the firm's employees... so that the status of these measures is similar to that of the Sejm Chancellery. It was a decision outside the dispute over the years, agreed on an inter-club level. But we felt that it was worthwhile to set a good example during the pandemic period and that these measures should go to other goals. We also decided that the President's Office's budget... With stubbornness, another year, in the explanatory memorandum, you refer to the expenses related to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, and it has already been, thank God, 2,5 years since this event. Once again, you justify the increase in spending on the activities of the President's Office. However, this is more than what it is these days, so we decided that in the name of the public interest, the committee would reduce the expenditure of the President's Office by 3 million and allocate these funds to finance the activities of the European Solidarity Centre. The President's Chancellery's expenses have been cut in such a way that despite the pandemic, even though, of course, some activities have been reduced, even for the President's travels... Well, those towards the United States of America will probably be limited. I don't mean to be rude, but the president's been actually absent from the public debate for months. Despite such important challenges facing Poland, he was absent during the crisis related to the debate on the European budget, he did not speak to events in Belarus, to the next increase in taxes or to the whole complex of issues related to health care failure and pandemic. The symbolic cut-off of these 3 million will not significantly worsen the functioning of the President's Office, and will very strongly support the activities of ECS, a public institution which is co-financed by the Ministry of Culture. I know that Minister Sellin will say that the Ministry is fulfilling the agreement and allocating 4 million grants for ECS activities, but that is not enough. Recently, the ECS has been functioning largely through measures that it receives from society, from public collections. I think it is our duty to take care of an institution that is competently, objectively and that, so to speak, modernly, professionally popularizes in the country and, what is important, abroad the latest history of Poland, the history of "Solidarity" reminds us of the changes in Eastern Europe, that it is extremely important for Europe and the world that the transformations in this part of Europe, the transformations that have consequences for Europe as a whole, did not start with the fall of the Berlin Wall, only from the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard, since the August break of 1980. This is the most effective, best diplomacy that is worth our support from the public money pool. Well, as an alternative, we have, for example. The Polish National Foundation, which is to take care of the Polish brand, which receives huge funds from the state budget or indirectly from companies of the State Treasury, and which certainly does not care about the Polish brand as well as it does, among others. The European Solidarity Centre, which, through its exhibition and educational activities, through publications and through the fact that hundreds of thousands of people visit them every year, including many people from abroad, reminds Europe and the world that Poland's contribution to European transformations, the contribution of solidarity to these transformations, is the most important. We have transferred these funds because the financial year that started is the year of important anniversaries that the ECS will want to commemorate. Well, it's worth sharing that knowledge through the media, spreading it outside. The 40th anniversary of the martial law is coming up, the 40th anniversary of the first congress is coming. For the people of August, for people for whom August values and ideals of Solidarity are important, this is important. It will be the 40th anniversary of the uprising of the NRA, the 30th anniversary of the collapse of the Soviet Union, there will be many other anniversaries, therefore in the public interest... Pursuing historical memory, for our identity, which is also built on these important historical events, is our duty and duty of the Polish state. This money will be well spent and therefore I ask the High House to support the amendment which supports the ECS with the amount of PLN 3 million at the expense of current expenses of the Office of the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Allow me to speak from the place. I would like to say a few words and put forward a few proposals that result from the meeting of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. At its meeting on 9 January, we discussed the parts of the budget relevant to the content of our committee's work. The first point I would like to draw attention to is the issue of the State Labour Inspection. It is one time in a row, when we are dealing with such a strange situation, that the management of the State Labour Inspection calls on the Senate Committee of the Family and Social Policy to restore certain amounts, small, which have been cut off in the legislative process in the Sejm. This year This is particularly astonishing because I will remind you that the National Labour Inspection takes care of, among others. to check whether all the sharpenings and epidemiological regulations related to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic are in place, so it seems quite obvious that in such a situation cutting the budget of this institution by a small amount of PLN 5 million is quite incomprehensible. I therefore allowed myself, following the request of the management of the State Labour Inspection, to make such an amendment aimed at restoring these 5 million PLN. That's the first line. Secondly, I would like to point out that at our meeting our concern In particular, Senator Magdalena Kochan and Senator Benjamin Godyla raised very low salaries in the Social Insurance Institution and in the Social Insurance Fund. I want to pay particular attention to the Social Security Office. Let us remember that in 2020 this institution had many tasks: parking service, payment of the travel voucher and any other support tools for entrepreneurs associated with the pandemic, Covid-19. The operation of these tools largely rested on the shoulders of the employees of the Social Insurance Institution, similarly also on the shoulders of KRUS employees. We do not decide, because the budget is a difficult budget, to propose an appropriate amendment, but the committee sees this problem, and I thank the senators for paying attention to this issue. I think that next year, if the situation improves and we do not have such pandemic problems as in the year that has passed, we will be able to afford to see this additional effort of the staff of these institutions in an appropriate way, including by increasing the remuneration of the staff of these institutions. I am not talking about the remuneration of executives here, I am talking about those who are on the front line in both of these institutions. Finally, I would like to say two regional amendments. The first one concerns my constituency. I allow myself to make an amendment concerning the construction of sewage treatment plants in the municipality of Przemęt. And amendment two. Senator Bosacki and I are reporting the issue of financial support for the Multi-specialist Municipal Hospital. Joseph ostrich in Poznań. Senator Bosacki has tabled this amendment, as I understand it, as a senator elected from this district, and I allow myself to support it as a resident of the city of Poznań, and as a patient of this facility treated there in August this year. Since March it is the largest covidowy hospital in our voivodship and he requires this support. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Before I ask Senator Ewa Matecka to speak, I will allow myself to wish the senators the New Year's wishes for the first time in the new year. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From the very beginning of the PiS governments we have seen a festival of various kinds of frequently changing information or messages. A clear example of this is the sequence of events accompanying the call to life of the noisyly announced fund for the modernisation of hospitals and later the Medical Fund. In all announcements, we were informed that the additional source of funding would be indicated in the budget of the State, which would feed the Medical Fund. If this were to happen, this would mean a real increase in health expenditure in 2021 above 5.30% GDP. Unfortunately, that's not in this budget. As a result, the Medical Fund remains not only a part of the budget deficit, but also, which was tried to disguise, consumes the hospital modernisation fund. So once again, there is manipulation of numbers and names. The same funds therefore support 2 funds originally intended to function independently and separately. In practice this means, High Izbo, reducing the Medical Fund by the value of the hospital modernisation fund, about 400 million a year. Well, unless the hospital upgrade fund doesn't exist. We already have some experience, observations and conclusions from the functioning of the Medical Fund in 2020. According to the Act, the upper limit of expenditure on the Medical Fund was still to be PLN 2 billion in 2020. This amount was forced, as it were meant to balance 2 billion PLN for public media. Too late in the preparation of this law and all the procedures provided for in this Act prevented people with cancer and rare diseases, including children under the age of 18, from using this fund in 2020. In other words, they were completely virtual 2 billion, which in the light of the law do not need to be spent because they represent a top and not a lower limit of expenditure. Additional funds for oncology have therefore proved to be fiction in contrast to the real amounts that feed the public media budget. For the following years, including 2021, by 2029, over PLN 4 billion of the Medical Fund has been provided for, but of course this is the upper limit of expenditure, not the total amount, i.e. 100%. She's guaranteed. There is a legitimate concern that Polish oncology will not be supported, as it could be concluded from the provisions of the Act and the messages transmitted to us. As if this were not enough, the budget for 2021 reduces the amount allocated to chemotherapy, to psychiatry, to drug programmes and to pharmacies. And so, for chemotherapy it is more than PLN 100 million, for psychiatry PLN 110 million, for drug programs On the other hand, the annual PLN 2 billion for television, for public media, is guaranteed unconditionally and does not come from the budget reserve, just like the Medical Fund. These 2 billion PLN for the public media for 2021 and also in the previous year, for 2020 are intended to compensate the public media for the loss of income from the unpaid subscription. And if so, how should we deal with the proposed increase in subscription rates despite guaranteed compensation? These increases have already been officially announced on the website of the National Radio and Television Council. However, not only is public television powered, because at the end of the year, which was shocking, more than 400 thousand zlotys of Trwam TV were transferred from the pool dedicated to the fight against cancer. Reservations, of course, could be multiplied indefinitely, as the scale of misinformation and failure to keep the health claims submitted is absolutely unprecedented. It's amazing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget is a particularly interesting place to look at and determine in which direction the State intends to act, which directions it intends to extinguish. It also provides very interesting information about irrational actions, which I could include in the activities under the influence of emotion, although authorities, especially authorities, should not be guided by emotions, rather rationality. Therefore, although many people feel that the budget is a combination of numbers, such as dry, uninteresting, when we discuss this, we find out exactly what direction the state is going to develop, what areas it wants to strengthen, what areas it wants to extinguish. This is very interesting. I want to take care of help for Polish people and Poles abroad. Two years ago, the PiS decision, the money for this assistance was taken from the Senate and transferred to several resorts, to 5 resorts. There was no substantive justification for this. Supporting Poles and Polonia abroad by the Senate is better than supporting and giving money to the government. Also because it is necessary to support in those places where the situation is very delicate for our minority, for Poles abroad. This concerns Belarus, Russia. It's different how the government gives money 'Cause there are different institutions, different entities in the government. The Senate, which is a parliament, is part of the parliament, does. In addition, in the Senate, there was a principle that the opposition had an impact on what the money seemed to be and had an insight into how this aid was implemented. Therefore, the Senate has been left competence to support Polish and Polish people abroad, but competences without money. Well, it was a simple game for the fact that PiS lost most of the Senate. It's clear. It was a simple emotional game and an attempt to hit the Senate. But was only the Senate hit? What about our countrymen? How did the government split up the money? I'll tell you how he split up. Well, I'm not quite able to tell you how he split up by the end of the year, because the Prime Minister's law firm, which received the largest pot of that senate money, asked at the end of November, replied that it was unable to answer because it was already spending money for 2021. However, I have information from the end of October last year and I must say that this is very interesting information. It is very interesting to see how this duty of support, which was taken from the Senate, is implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. The Prime Minister's firm received the largest pool of these funds, 53 million 390 thousand. And I have to say that in terms of spending this money, the Prime Minister's firm looks pretty good here because she only returned $4 million to the state budget, $200,000. Looks like he hasn't spent about a million yet, but he's got a chance to. She spent $10 million on Vilnius TV, but she didn't answer the question of exactly what the money went to. This TV, it seems, is working. I do not know to what extent; at times information from Vilnius comes to light. But like that money The round 10 million have been used, we don't know that. We don't know how much has gone to the transmitters, how much has gone to the wages, how much has gone to the other positions necessary for the operation of television. Now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received over 18 million, 18 million 300 thousand and 10 million for television. Well, what TV spending looks like. And the money has already been spent We don't know. But we know that at least 937 thousand were transferred to consulates, and that probably reached 1 million from the Polish House in Lviv, where the audit was to be performed, and to my knowledge this audit was not. So that's almost $2 million. And the amount of PLN 4 million, 648,000,700 has been returned to the budget. The Ministry of National Education received 7 million and the 7 million transferred to activities that are within its competence and were conducted for the money of the Ministry. These were important things, I do not question: financing Polish schools, directing teachers and purchasing, sending textbooks. But the funds for this purpose were beyond this senate pool, which should go directly to Polish organizations, to Polish actors. So they've been reduced by $7 million. The Ministry of National Heritage has just fulfilled this obligation in its entirety and it is difficult to note here, because it is difficult to note that in the case of probably 4 million to the National Department they. Ossolinskiego in Lviv, the branch in Lviv was not realized... Well, COVID, I get it. But the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of these senate 10 million to Polonia returned 1 million to the state budget, and 8 million to implement an open competition to promote the family!First of all, the family! It's a competition that organized a government proxy for demographic policy. And I'm sorry, this is where I made a mistake. Of this money, of the 8 million, 350 thousand were invested in the Office of the Government Plenipotentiary for Demographic Policy. So all this money, 9 million, did not go to support our fellow countrymen abroad, but to the competition first family!At first, which has nothing to do with Poles abroad and Polonia abroad, and also 350 thousand more for the Office of the Government Plenipotentiary for Demographic Policy. In total, ladies and gentlemen, the return to the budget and use for their own actions, which have not much to do with Poles in the East and not at all with our Polonia, have reached over 25 million, 25 million 848 thousand. That's how I calculated it based on this information. That is how less received our Polish organizations and Poles in the East, which should be the beneficiaries of this entire sum. This is what you say about supporting our fellow countrymen when it comes to budget implementation. That's really how it looks. Last year, we offered to leave a small sum to the Senate, but most of it in the Sejm. You are a minority here, of course, but you are the parliamentary majority, decided that this change, this amendment, had not passed. This year, similarly, we propose $10 million... I have no illusions that this amendment will be rejected. If, in order to get revenge on the Senate, you touch our compatriots all over the world, especially in the East, who need this help, you should show maximum care, so that the money that is in the budget for them will reach them. And from what I've said right now, what I've shown, it's not. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear High Izbo! Minister! It is not easy to clearly assess the budget that we are talking about, especially since we are working at the beginning of the year, which came after an exceptional year, so to speak, unusual, and we are dealing with the effects of the particular pandemic COVID-19. If we collide reality with government propaganda, with the Prime Minister's and ministers' assessments of the state of the Polish economy, Polish public finances, then we must say that this budget causes some surprise. Despite the big announcement that we're doing great, it looks like we're going backwards. Just look at the income side of this budget and this is the basis for this next page, i.e. expenditure. As you can see, in 2021. In 12 months he'll be over, and we'll go back two years. Such a conclusion can be drawn, for example, on the basis of the tax revenue I have mentioned. And so on. the planned VAT receipts are to amount to about PLN 181 billion, the same as in 2019. In turn, all tax revenue is expected to amount to PLN 369 billion as much as it was 2 years ago. That's for sure he's gonna mess with those statements and projections presented by the government. Is this draft budget good? Well, the very fact that 900 amendments were tabled to him in the Seym, I will repeat: 900 amendments indicate that he cannot be a good budget. But even worse... Because can it be regarded as being adopted well, in a civilized, parliamentary manner? Well, certainly not. Because if accepted, in my view, the absolutely scandalous method of grouping amendments in the Seym for those that are ours, so we will support them, and those that are not ours, so we will reject them... The dilemma is settled in a single vote. This is neither elegant nor cultural nor parliamentary. I would even say that this is contrary to the principles of the legislative process which should apply in Poland. So as far as that's concerned, it's also a bad budget. Not much, this budget has such flaws as many of the previous budgets of Law and Justice. It is enough to mention that it provides for a huge amount of money for those institutions which are, so to speak, close to the body of the governing party itself, and lacks money for these tasks, undertakings and institutions which the Law and Justice respect less. There have already been ECS examples in Gdansk or the Ombudsman's Office, but they can be multiplied. E.g. from this budget it follows that the IPN, an institution which is to deal with what happened decades ago, is more important than taking care of citizens, employees, because the Institute receives 400 million of its budget, but already for example. The State Labour Inspection, which is important for millions of workers in Poland, receives radically less money. And that's how you could exchange, exchange, exchange. In this budget there is less money for culture, there is less money for science, for education, so everything that is the basis of modern society, which is to be competitive on the European and global markets. Without science, without education, without achievements in this area it is difficult to expect development in the future, therefore this state must be clearly criticised. In this respect, the culture already mentioned certainly has its meaning, because it is the foundation of the construction of the state and society. The Minister of Culture has just left, but I understand he's probably not happy that his field will be lacking here either. I would like to move on to things that are closer to me, so to the issue of economy, entrepreneurship and development. And here I have to say that with amazement and worry I again note not the best information resulting from this budget, e.g. The fact that they're falling, radically, into investment. Ladies and gentlemen, investment is the basis for development, there is no investment, there is no development, at least in the medium to long term, it can only be dealt with in a short time. Investments build a gross domestic product, stabilise the situation, give a strong foundation for the future. In this respect, investments in energy, but also in telecommunications and railway infrastructure are very important, for example due to technical, technological and needs in Poland. In all these areas, there is a decrease in funding, which will, of course, result in a decrease in investment, and these are already among the lowest possible ones. In Poland there is an investment gap, it is unbelievable, it has not only been for several years, it is expanding and all forecasts show that this process, of course, if we have such budgets as the one proposed today, will continue until 2030. Return and overtake losses in those investments, which are generally multi-billion-dollar, but also very difficult and legally, and in terms of investment, technical and technological costs, because the world is running away... If we start chasing him today, we may be able to achieve the standards that are in force, but if we start chasing the world, Europe in 10 years, we will not, of course, achieve those standards. Unfortunately, in these areas, as I said, there is a decrease in expenditure, and therefore also a decrease in investment. And that's what I have to criticize unambiguously. Therefore, I will make not only amendments to each parliamentarian, so-called. regional or local amendments, in my case on important issues for the city and residents of Sawa, e.g. construction of the second section of Przemysłowa Street. I will also make amendments which will aim at at least in some areas to support investment and, above all, what is very important today, and which are not appreciated at all. I rarely hear that in a parliamentary debate, more often in an expert debate, but that does not change much. It is the strengthening of the knowledge-based economy. Even today, and even more so in the future, only those countries, those economies that will be very innovative, will be very developmental, those that will aim to achieve goals that in some countries are already becoming a standard, and in the future will be absolutely the norm, i.e. economies or industries 4.0. I, to be honest, don't even use the concept of industry 4.0 anymore, just society 4.0. And in this respect, I will propose an amendment that will have a very tangible effect on the one hand, a concrete effect in the context of a specific task. But through this amendment, I would like to draw the attention of the state and, above all, the government to the needs not only in this case, but in general science, research and the construction of the 4.0 economy. I would therefore suggest that we allocate additional money to the Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry in the Polish Academy of Sciences, Poznań Supercomputing and Networking Center in Poznań. This is a phenomenal facility, which is one of the centers of computers with high power, which can be exemplary when it comes to understanding what I am talking about, namely the need for development, investment in development that is the basis for building industry 4.0 in Poland. I would like to say, slowly ending, that if we lose the race to create a population of 4.0, we will surely lose European and global competition. I'm sure. And I also want to say that even at the beginning of this road, we're not at the beginning of this race. In Poland, most people, including probably government politicians who rule, do not even know what civilization 4.0 means, do not even know what industry is. 4.0, and developed countries around the world are already doing so. We should immediately move the shaft on this Polish track in this direction. And that is why I hope that you will accept an amendment concerning this amount, a small amount, because it is only PLN 10 million, for a project worth PLN 65 million. Thanks to this symbolic indication, the symbolic allocation of this money to the Poznań Supercomputing and Networking Center shows what priorities should be today and in the future in Poland. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. I would also like to remind you that you have exceeded the time that was meant for you. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u71	I'm gonna start by saying that you can look at the budget differently, of course. Through the prism of the figures themselves, compare it with the budget of the previous year, to check the trends, you can look for priorities, but also anticipate the effects. I've decided that I'm going to construct my speech a little differently. I prefer to focus on recipients, economic operators, citizens and see how they will receive this budget throughout 2021. Unfortunately, the image that emerges from this anticipation is extremely pessimistic. We have an increase in inflation, a record in Europe; an increase in unemployment, with the most severe loss of jobs; we have an increase in various taxes, from sugar to dog tax; an increase in debt, with various tricks; an increase in omnipotence of the state; an increase in penalties and various mandates; the destruction of local finances; and a record drop in investment expenditure, as my previous speaker Adam Szejnfeld said, and what I also pay very much attention to, because such a dramatic drop in investment expenditure will have an impact on many, many years, and this will be devastating effects. I'll remind you of the promises. Not all of them, of course, because there were a lot of them. Well, promises were, for example. Such: the minimum wage of PLN 3 000 will not be this, there will be PLN 2 000 800; minimum pensions would increase by PLN 70, and there will be an increase by PLN 50. There's gonna be another year of tax freeze, and it was supposed to be frostbite a long time ago. I will skip the tax-free amount that has not already been implemented, which is crucial from a motivational point of view as regards the labour market. I will also undertake fundamental analyses on what should be the most important. Of course, the rule of law should be the most important. Therefore, those restrictions which are imposed on citizens or economic operators should have a strong legal basis. They don't. We see what begins in Poland, the boycott of laws begins by economic operators who consider that restrictions on them have been taken without sufficient legal basis. In the second place, of course, vaccinations should take place. At good pace, good quality, well organized. They're not. The third thing is to protect the financial condition of the entire public administration. The protection of the state administration is present, but the local government is definitely not That's what my previous speakers were talking about. And the fourth thing: a reliable basis of the state's interests on wise political alliances, international, geographical alliances, not on Orbán, because the effects of this in this global world will also be devastating. I look at the different areas that should be best represented. Well, health care today is topic number one, and it's in bad shape. Oncology in agony, cardiology, surgery, ICUs in mourning, we have the highest mortality after World War II. Self-government... I feel a little sorry for those who listen that education subsidies do not cover all the costs of running primary and secondary schools. We know that this should not be the case, we know that a share of PIT has been introduced in terms of local governments to distribute these elements. But unfortunately, looking at the analysis, the analysis of the increase in subsidies, as well as the consequences of decisions related e.g. with wages, we know that also for this one element of responsibility there is not adequate responsibility of the State for education. I would like to talk more about these local governments, but I will reduce my speech only to a simple diagnosis, which today is particularly visible. Firstly, the middle school was devastated, which entered the top five with regard to the European level. Secondly, the funding of education was distorted by inadequate counting of various elements. It has been brought to the situation that I grieve strongly about it, that unfortunately it is not for six-year-olds that compulsory teaching begins, but unfortunately for seven-year-olds. So we go as if against the current, in spite of the whole world, when it comes to preparing a young citizen for life, so that he in this world, in short, will cope. One more piece on science. I agreed at the committee meeting with the representatives of Law and Justice that today the most important element necessary to deal with the effects of the pandemic in a year's time of 2, 3, 4 years is support for science. This is, generally speaking, not only about revalorizing the budgets of universities, but also about giving them the opportunity to develop technical, laboratory, technological facilities, so that, in short, they can do better. I look at individual institutions, at the Polish Academy of Sciences, at the Polish Space Agency. That's all, generally speaking, limping. In the space agency, personal changes are so frequent that this institution is unfortunately in poor condition when it comes to the possibility of obtaining European funds. Investments. There are a lot of investments that are virtual in nature. I'm already skipping this rusty keel under the national ferry, but I'm also worried about the increasing costs of projects that are not being implemented. An example is the Central Communication Port. I looked at the investments I know best about, including those from the cultural area. Work lasts 2, 3 times longer and costs 3, 4 times more than expected in cost estimates. This is not a cost-effective, rational public spending. What's in the best condition? 'Cause you could say this: it's bad everywhere, but maybe it's better somewhere. There's one area where it gets better. This is the field of propaganda, this is the field of public television, this is all that is involved in defending the government against rational public opinion. It's actually much better out there, inadequately suited to the situation. I also look at what the government chooses when it comes to priorities. The present? No, because they're vaccines. The future? Science? Economy? No, the government chooses the past, chooses to cultivate all that will actually anchor our failure. But even in cultivating the past, as Marshal Borusewicz said, there are examples of selectivity. The European Solidarity Centre is such an example. What about the specifics? The liabilities that have grown are 600 billion. The expenditure of the budget was taken to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or the Polish Development Fund. The lowest interest rates of NBP in the collision with the highest inflation means stealing the savings of Poles, that is obvious. 8 new taxes have been passed, and 8 more are being increased or increased. VAT-owska Luka is growing, as Marshal Borowski said. Entry programme up to 6% GDP for health care was not reformed, we are still talking about the 2024 perspective. At present, 3 times the number of pensioners This has happened in just the last three years, and it's getting the lowest pensions. This is the state which emerges from this budget, from your policy, which, according to my opinion, demonstrates the lack of responsibility for the future of the Polish state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said today, so I will not repeat myself. I would not like to bore you or all those who are watching us, but I am thinking about the debate that was going on about the budget last year. It was supposed to be such an optimistic, fantastic, balanced budget. As it turns out, the epidemic exposed the fact that it was not so optimistic, although perhaps in the initial phase it was optimisticly spent money. I listened to Senator Bierecki, who tried to draw the opposition's attention so that she wouldn't cover her expenses, because it's from somewhere. In this situation, let me remind you of one thing, that last year very optimisticly, without maintaining any rules I'm not talking about public procurement rules anymore, but the rules for public finances were spent on the budget, mainly through the Ministry of Health. And I will no longer care for the former Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, but I must return to the case of bad ghost respirators, the purchase of which was concluded without the opinion of the Attorney General and joyfully the arms dealer's company was transferred millions of zlotys from the state budget. Several tens of millions have not returned to this day. And my biggest surprise is that, although the Minister of Justice is very cheerfully and optimisticly chasing different entrepreneurs for various minor or larger offences, I have not heard anyone charge them for not coming back. But I have heard that this case has been referred to civil claims, that is to say, normal civil proceedings. In addition, recent media coverage of the tests from Turkey, which was brought by Argenta, some strangely conducted also, founded by people associated with the ruling party, where in fact too much, 27 million was spent too much from the budget. That is why I am very concerned about such assumptions in the budget, which, for example, provide for health expenditure in the amount of PLN 4.8 billion, because, as we learn from experience, such reserves are spent without a precise purpose, unfortunately, money is spent on how, why and why it is not known from which key. This is sad, because this is the money of our citizens, of all of us, which we all need. So much for the budget. We also talked a lot today about the opposition amendments. And in fact, a penny of opposition in general, which is the Senate-run coalition. These amendments of opposition in the Sejm, the opposition of the Sejm, were basically one cut, literally one cut rejected. This must be regretted very much, because it still shows that in this ruling during a very difficult period, during a very difficult time at all in the Sejm, there is no emphasis on what almost half say, because the difference between the coalition in the Sejm and the opposition, when it comes to the number of votes, is only a few. Why could these amendments not be discussed in a meaningful manner? There would certainly be a lot with which the Members of the Law and Justice would agree, and we would have a shorter debate and less work here, because these amendments would be in the budget. I still regret that, although the opposition and the government should speak with one voice on the health of all Poles, the opposition in the Seym still does not listen at all, still the opposition amendments, both those coming from the Senate and those which are being filed in the Seym, are still ignored. The voice doesn't count. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, these are matters. All of us. Some vote for this side, some vote for this side, but these are all our citizens. We should be unanimous on this issue. That's why I hope. Maybe I'm too much of an idealist. The Senate's amendments, which we have pointed out here, which will return to the Sejm and which we will have to vote on again, will bend over. And I would ask you very much... I was also very concerned about the fact that the Senate wants to stall the budget. We have such a constitutional right and, as always, we want to exercise that right. The level of debate, however, is slightly different from the level of the parliamentary debate. I would like to draw attention to two amendments. First of all, on the so-called. a psychiatric amendment, i.e. in two positions, to increase expenditure on the psychiatric effects of COVID, to treat these effects, and to children's psychiatry. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a great deal of discussion on this subject last year, and there was a lot of information, very tragic, about suicides of children, suicide attempts. Now it's solitary, it's remote work, but it's like leaving the kids alone with the computer, it affects their psyche too. This affects the psyche of adults, let alone children who are much more sensitive and much more unconscious. Therefore, this amendment, which we have proposed, of PLN 80 million for children's psychiatry, is extremely justified because these 400 doctors of children's psychiatrists who are in Poland will certainly not be able to cope with the number of cases that will be. And the second point: the issue of in vitro funding. Ladies and gentlemen, in vitro really gave birth to a little bit of children, only the lack of in vitro funding from the government programme since 2016 makes out of 20% Infertile couples 'Cause that's the statistics. Only the richest ones can afford the procedure. Such a single procedure costs within 10,000 PLN or more. There's nothing more expensive for people than children. For people who want a child, there's nothing more expensive. People sell apartments, they sell cars so they can go through these procedures several times. Let's make it easy for them and make it more childish. Because from this program financed in previous years, however, several thousand children were born. And what a great benefit it is in vitro can best be said by those who have children through this procedure. Let us not judge this in philosophical-religious-moral terms. Everyone makes their own decisions. But we will make it possible for our fellow countrymen, including the poorer ones, who cannot afford this procedure, to fund in vitro. Of course, like every senator, I will also make one local amendment. As Senator of Tychy, I propose an amendment, a small amendment concerning PLN 10 million to finance the underground passage through the railway line linking the Old Tychy connecting centre and the PKP railway station with the service and residential zone and the business zone. The Tychy are a very beautiful city, they are developing very well, and this is one place, which is state, non-government, haunting. And there really fear to go tonight, even when you go to Warsaw, to the Senate. That's why I'm sure this investment is necessary for this city. Thank you very much and I ask you to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. As I understand it, the senator will be participating in our debate remotely, yes? [[We don't know.]] [[We don't know.]] Excuse me... Because the senator is registered, but he's not reporting, I understand, remotely. [[Voice from the room: Next.]] [[Next.]] Yes, very... But I want to give everyone a chance, because the reasons can be different. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Bober.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to refer in a few sentences to the situation which is probably the most important after health department of our economy, namely in agriculture. Indeed, the new challenges facing agriculture go very far, and this budget is not a pro-development budget serving farmers, serving wider farming. I will talk about rural areas a little bit later, but indeed consumers are making demands at the moment. This budget should indicate the areas of support, above all the innovative solutions to be implemented. After all, such expectations are for example in the implementation of the common agricultural policy or the Green Deal But consumers are really the ones who set out specific tasks. The fact that farmers have to carry out their production according to standards so that this production is sustainable in order to actually make food very healthy, but above all to be accessible to everyone, because that is the social responsibility of the farmer's profession... There's no development and research budget in this. There are promotional measures. This is very important, mainly when it comes to promoting Polish food. These measures are in different places and if there is no coordination, it will be difficult for them to be properly used. And looking at the budget, I find that there's something basic missing in it. In fact, there is no money for Polish Standards. Well, it can't be that we've lost Polish Food Standards somewhere, and to this day it's not known by name, which is what. It cannot be that milk, which is actually a product of mammals only, suddenly appears in shops under the banner: soy milk, oat milk. This has nothing to do with each other. If milk The drink of the gods In fact, what our agencies have in their strategy, i.e. to teach Polish consumers to properly read stores on food products, is not really going to work. Going back to rural development, because it's impossible to separate... Indeed, you have shown that there is no sustainable development in rural areas, that this development is very pointy and that these measures are actually often not in those areas that should be supported. Those measures which are dedicated to municipalities I'm not talking about scale and size, but I'm talking about how it really was. They were combined with measures from various voivodship programmes, from different other operational programmes and in total constituted a whole. In the edition proposed by the government there is chaos and, above all, what has already been mentioned here, Polish local governments, local governments, which contribute to the development of these areas. There would be no progress without self-government. In fact, they teach local democracy to all residents. Because they believed they could decide on development. But in that case, it doesn't quite work out. A very important and important point is the amendment I make to others concerning the creation of a solidarity fund. This is often the case in the areas of the market economy, that companies that buy agricultural products for one reason or another are failing and all the procedures associated with it last for years. There are loans for re-production, but this is also a time that is not enough to decide to re-create agricultural production. That is why my proposal is that we set up a solidarity fund within the reserve, from which we could help vulnerable farms in such situations so that they can continue to function. Another area that wasn't mentioned here is the environment area. Agriculture is also responsible here. The smog we should be fighting effectively... After all, we have climate standards, which we must use as a country, as Poland. This budget is clearly lacking. If we do not address these challenges, unfortunately, the next generation Poles in this area will settle us hard. I believe that this revised budget by the Senate will be adopted by the Sejm and will serve Poland properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Mr. Sanatorium Krzysztof Mroz. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u77	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[Yes, Senator, we can hear you and see you.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I listened to this debate on the budget, in particular the statements of Senator Zdrojewski, who criticized this budget very strongly, but also as if he had built Poland in black colors, and to be honest, I am very, very surprised, because this vision presented by Senator Zdrojewski is simply a false vision. We have one of the fastest economic growth in the EU as a whole in the 2021 budget. Conservatively counting, 4%. Some credit rating agencies say it will be much, much more. We have an increase in expenditure on health care, as Mr Grzegorz Bierecki said, about PLN 11.6 billion. We're up to 6%. GDP, this year it will be 5.3%. We carry out all the social tasks that the United Right has promised to accomplish, we have maintained the 500+ program, we have maintained the medicines for seniors, but we are also fulfilling our obligations to seniors. There are funds secured in this budget for the thirteenth pension, which will soon be paid. If we can make a bill quickly, and I know that she's due to be processed next week, then we'll see how long the Senate will be working on it, hopefully we won't be working too long on this bill in the Senate... We want to adopt this 14 pension law very quickly, and these 14 are also covered by the reserve in this budget. So on the one hand we maintain our political commitments, but also the commitments of the Polish state Because if the Prime Minister promises something, it is not only the PIS and only some parliamentary majority in the Sejm, but it is also promised by the state in relation to our seniors, in relation to Polish families. And all this in a very difficult budget in 2021, in which we will continue to deal with the epidemic of Coronavirus and its certain economic consequences. On the other hand, we manage to run this budget and so support Polish entrepreneurs in order to have one of the highest economic growth predicted for this year throughout the European Union. Many of my colleagues here spoke about local governments, about support, about the Government Local Investment Fund, and about how badly the local government works. I tracked the revenue of the local government on the example of my town, Jelenia Góra, in which in the years 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 the year-to-year budget, in terms of tax participation, grew by about 20%. We have not yet achieved results for the last 2 months of 2020, probably this growth was no longer in 2020, but if it was a decrease, it was minimal. The same thing, with a little less dynamic in terms of CIT. This is a show of some economic success of the last 4 or 5 years of our governments, as well as support for local governments. 'Cause if those tax shares were growing... And somehow I didn't hear those self-governments, those senators who would say that this is some kind of support for self-governments, this is real support for self-governments through the right economic policy, where these budgets of self-governments grew. Of course, in 2020 this was probably slowed down and there will be some small declines, but it will really be small declines. We will see how in 2021... We do not know exactly how this epidemic will develop, but already in 2020 we implemented such local government support, these billions, 12 billion zlotys went to local governments. In the first tranche, all local governments got it, proportionally. There was already a form of competition in the second one. I don't know exactly what the criteria were, because I wasn't in any committee that assessed it, but, looking at the results, I think that the government has put very strongly, and I think it's right to support small municipalities, small local governments, for which several million zlotys are sometimes lost. percentage very, very large. I do not know if Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski is in the room, who said here how Łódź was mistreated because she did not receive any funds under the second tranche. But you have to be honest, Mr. Senator, because as part of the first tranche, I know, and I checked it out. It was the large millions that the city of Łódź received and the President of Zdanowska. But anything else... Today in Łódź there is a railway investment: the removal of a transport hub, construction of stops Łódź Fabryczna, Łódź Widzew, Łódź Żabiniec, for 1.7 billion PLN. One of the important elements of this investment will also be the agglomeration of communication in the city of Łódź and in the Łódź agglomeration. How much would it take from the Government Local Investment Fund to get Łódź to receive 1.7 billion PLN of support? I'm talking about this... I don't want to say this, to say that Łódź is developing at the expense of small towns or small towns at the expense of Łódź... But don't put the distribution of government funds so that one city didn't get it and other towns, smaller in the Łódź voivodship, got it, because even if Łódź didn't get the funds from the Government Fund for Local Investment in the second tranche, I'll remind you, and we're still waiting for a resolution on the third tranche It's from another envelope that she got billion-dollar support. It's an example I picked up because the senator said... Of course, as a senator from Łódź, he has the right to do so, but we also need to be honest, showing even specific cases. But there was, ladies and gentlemen, such a remarkable statement by Senator Wcisła, who, to be honest, shocked me a little bit. Because it kind of refers to a certain criticism with which Senator Zdrojewski spoke, who said how bad it is with the budget, how bad Poland will function in 2021. As part of his statement, Senator Wczyła said: but in the United States it is possible to block the budget and the government administration is then for some time without money, although we do not go as far as possible in the United States, and we will not allow the government to spend. Well, to be honest, Mr. Senator's statement shocked me, because, Mr. Senator, it shows what absurdity you're prepared to go to in this criticism, since you regret that we didn't do it like in the United States, i.e. To keep the government out of resources. I'm going to tell you, Senator, that you can't do this because the budget bill is one of the few laws in which there is a very strong government position in the process of adopting it, even though the president of the country cannot veto it as the only law. This is precisely so that no one thinks of such sick ideas as blocking state expenditure and that everyone, and Polish teachers, and Polish policemen, and Polish nurses, have since 1 January 2021 the funds to finance public tasks in one or another dimension. Because that's why Parliament is here, so that we can argue about what to give more money than for other purposes, because when adopting the budget, it's always a matter of choosing which priorities you want to set. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only allow myself to refer to three more specific issues. The first point is that there have been a lot of talking about certain amendments here, because you have adopted such a concept that you are making such regional amendments out of these amendments to the budget. You've covered the so-called budget. regional amendments, which often relate to small amounts. To be honest, I don't think this is the best form of funding for the various important regional tasks needed, since we say that we need to give PLN 2.3 million for this. There are various types of programmes, such as the Government Local Investment Fund, other programmes and there is no need to include small amounts in the budget. Well, that's not how you make a budget, that's not how you make a budget bill. And so to sum up, because such a concept also appeared and the voices of many senators repeated, very many senators repeated words about such a war with local governments, lack of funding for local governments... Well, those 12 billion zlotys last year, which are also to be spent this year, because they will be real this year, in 2021 spent, plus even today's decision by Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin Maybe not everyone's following it. It's easier to remotely do it. The deposit of PLN 1 billion for municipalities, just for mountain authorities, which today have problems... For me this is also a very important issue, because Karpacz, Szklarska and other local governments have been affected by this. 200 municipalities in Poland, 200 local governments will be able to apply about PLN 1 billion, and PLN 250 million will be for the local authorities. So we are also trying to support local governments, while not long ago, ladies and gentlemen, with the participation of the very strong support of the Civic Platform politicians, some local governments wanted to emancipate themselves, they wanted to say that they would be able to cope with the government's need for nothing, but today without this government support, they would rather not have managed without this financial support. Another issue that has been raised and has also gone through many discussions is the issue of child psychiatry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly difficult in this area, but today the main problem of child psychiatry is not lack of money, but, above all, lack of doctors. And that's the consequence. many years of neglect. Apparently, Senator Ujazdowski said that we in Poland were used to low quality public services. I agree, Senator Ujazdowski. If you're in the O.R., you can hear me, and if you're not, you're probably listening to me somewhere. But, ladies and gentlemen, it was we who began to rebuild these services during these five years. It was under the rule of the Civic Platform that they wanted to privatize health care. Police precincts have been taken out, you've rounded up county Poland, restricting public services. [[Senator, you've been out of time by three minutes.]] Today we are trying to play police stations, we are trying today to play PKS lines through subsidies so that people have these public services. So who likes who, but the people from the formation, i.e. from the Civic Platform, which Mr Ujazdowski represents, in the area of public services, should remain silent, because there are many different things that could be pointed out when it comes to these shortcomings. There is indeed a problem in child psychiatry today. We just need to educate doctors as quickly as we can, because, the problem is, so to speak, they're not available. [[Mr. Senator, you're significantly exceeding your speaking time.]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal, I promise I won't speak again in return. What Senator Czerwinski was talking about at the very beginning... The proposal forbids 20% The budget of the Institute of National Remembrance is an outrageous, absurd idea. I understand that a certain cloud of the programme announced by the Civic Platform is the liquidation of the IPN, but I assure you that as long as law and justice rule, we will not allow such absurd actions. It is an institution extremely necessary, nurturing Polish history, Polish memory, Polish tradition. I am surprised that such an amendment appears in the Senate, where there are many senators with a beautiful past in opposition, headed by Marshal Borusewicz. And today you want to de facto limit, by taking the IPN... You want to cut his budget by 20%, which is to make sure that only the salaries are paid there? Yes? After all, you are taking money for this educational activity, for all that is a social consequence of the realisation of these investments. You could talk a lot, but there's no time. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u78	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u79	Mr. Marshal, it's very difficult to argue with someone who exceeds the limit so much, but I'll try. I'm hoping for a little tolerance. First of all, I did not present a black picture at all, but presented a real picture, I emphasize: real, real. It can't be that you deny the facts. And I was talking about a record increase in inflation, a record increase in unemployment, a rise in taxes, an increase in debt, an increase in penalties, fines, a record drop in investment expenditure. I'm not going to argue here because I didn't say anything, for example. about the 500+ programme or other issues. I also talked about unfulfilled promises and exchanged them thoroughly. I reminded you that the minimum wage was going to be PLN 3,000, and it was going to be PLN 2,000 800, pensions were going to rise by PLN 70 and increase by PLN 50 etc., etc. I'm not going back to that. I also wanted to defend our fellow senators, Jurek Wcisła and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, but I think that in this matter they themselves They'll do better. However, I will move on to another issue that appears regularly, including the previous speaker. I mean, excuse or apologize for making so-called requests. local amendments. Well, I would like to make it clear that most of the amendments made by senators, senators, are so-called. local issues, that is the expression The desire to help the government better define what might have escaped, escaped, was unnoticed. We all operate in some electoral district, somewhere, and we know very well what is crucial because of the proper development of the whole country. I know that in Wrocław the most important thing is the construction of an oncology hospital, this is a key investment for which is 0 zloty. I know that an extremely important investment is the construction of the road to Kłodzek, because dozens of people die every year on the existing one. I know that the investment that needs to be completed is also important, because it will either work better or work better at the ICU hospital at all. I have this information collected from the government as well. I know that an investment in electricity supply worth PLN 3 million 700 thousand has a security of PLN 2 million 500 thousand. There are 1 million 200 thousand zlotys missing to finish and run the ICU. The same is true of the water treatment station in this hospital. These are obvious amendments that actually improve the state budget in terms of efficiency. It's my duty. As far as Wroclaw itself is concerned, I know very well that promises had been made earlier to help build the Great Island Avenue. Today the local government of Wroclaw In a very difficult situation, with reduced share of income from PIT Unfortunately, for the time being, he must struggle to make this investment on his own. I would point out that he is worth helping in this matter. Because this will free up resources for the absorption of European funds in relation to other investments, this is our goal. The same is true of the programme for strengthening human capital and infrastructure in the face of pandemic threats. This is the proposal from the projects to the National Plan for Reconstruction of 21 August 2020. That's what I'm paying attention to. I also have an appeal to our fellow Members here in the Senate not to justify themselves when submitting local applications, because it is our duty. We should be rational, responsible, thorough in this matter. We should know what the state is, so do not go crazy with all this, but in general it is our duty to show weaknesses on the map of Poland, which we see in our districts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Frost has made excellent reference to many speeches. I won't repeat his arguments, although I might use other words, sometimes stronger. But let's close this, it's already been discussed. We could say that we are here debating the 2021 budget in an extremely happy situation. In an extremely happy situation, because we're not talking about cuts, we're not talking about quitting social programs, we're not talking about receiving anything, we're not talking about raising taxes. We find a prescription for this crisis by means of those measures that are available; everyone in this room confirms their availability. Well, that's, you can say, an extraordinary agreement and a great compliment, as I said, to the government and the governing groups. But the enthusiasm that sounds here in this House seems to have to be slowed down. I think it is necessary to slow down, because the extent of uncertainty about what is going to happen in 2021 is so large that the adoption of amendments that increase spending based on the likely increase in budget revenue is, to put it mildly, inappropriate behaviour. A scale of uncertainty to remind you... Because maybe in this room, when we're sitting so isolated, but still wearing masks on our faces, we forget that the pandemic isn't over, that the virus mutates, that it doesn't really know how this pandemic is going to develop. Are we gonna have another lockdown? How many waves of pandemic of this virus are there gonna be? Will the vaccines be effective? All these questions will only be answered. And now we don't know what that answer will be. We assume it's gonna be okay, we're optimistic. We want Poland to return to development as soon as possible, but we need to have a security buffer. We can't give everyone away now, so to speak, likely money, because hypothetically, we are... because somebody's figured out there's gonna be more money. So I encourage you to be reticent when you think about spending in 2021, because this year is going to be a difficult year. Not easy. Finally, one important goal for Poland is to return to the deficit level below 3% as soon as possible. The fact that higher deficits are now acceptable is due to this emergency situation, but the objective of returning to the deficit level below 3% must be defined, must be defined and planned. So, if it is better, if it turns out, please, that the budget revenue will be higher, as we all wish, we should first of all benefit from this and be less indebted so that we do not live at the expense of future generations who will have to pay off these debts. These amendments, which I have heard from the senators of the speaker, show a very interesting map of needs. You could say that we were asking ourselves here: what else would we spend this money on if we had so many? I'm sure we'll be paying attention to this map of needs. But is this the right time to meet the needs you were talking about here? Are those funds that are provided in the budget for the defined, already defined needs by the government, which after all consulted this budget... The budget went all the way in the Seym, it's not an underdeveloped document. This is a document that tells us how to spend our common money to meet the needs that are important in 2021. So much for the conclusion of this discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I encourage you to exercise restraint, encourage you to be economical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Both Poland and the whole world are in a unique situation due to the pandemic. The fate of every Polish family, every company, every employee depends on the state today. Poland, including health services, was not prepared for the crisis caused by the pandemic. In previous years, Poland has experienced economic growth, which has been influenced by many factors. Other countries were gaining strength during the economic boom, Poland slept through this time, and the resulting benefits were consumed. The government was giving away money lightly, e.g. 250 million PLN for the foundation of Mr.Rydzyk, billions for the Polish Television or rather the party propaganda cell, 2 billion for planes without tender, a thousand limo instead of ambulances, was built quickly the most expensive hospital in the world without patients at the National Stadium. At the same time, under the pretext of an epidemic, the government is introducing new fees and taxes for Poles and Poles. There'll be 10 of them. Within 5 years, the PiS government has introduced about 35 new taxes and charges, now another 10. Inflation in October was the highest in Europe and highest in the European Union. Prices in Poland are growing dramatically, much faster than in the European Union. The government increases its broadcasting subscription, radio and television subscriptions, which are the propaganda tool of the ruling party. Other countries reduce VAT, and the Polish government maintains increased VAT, which was announced to reduce many years ago. Over the last five years, the country ruled by the PiS has grown debt, which has reached nearly PLN 1.5 trillion, with 600 billion debt being the result of the decision of the current government in the last five years. Prices increase, taxes and charges increase and the VAT-Own gap, which fell in 2016 and 2018, when the mechanisms introduced by the previous government began to work. And what happened in 2019? It's been sealed. In 2020, the VAT gap went up. What happened? This government stopped chasing the VAT mob? I will remind you of the slogan repeated by the representatives of this government: just not steal. So what happened in 2020? Ten billion zlotys have escaped. Minister Kościński withdrew 13 billion PLN from the budget for 2020 and 2021. Not only will there be no sealing... And in 2021, 10 billion will reach the VAT gap, so much will escape the government. Why, what's the reason? Nearly 50,000 people died more in 2020 than in 2019. In this respect, do we have much more money for health care in the 2021 budget? Not necessarily. The next year's health budget allocated 5.3% GDP is still not enough to prevent health care from collapsing. The length of life of Poles since 2017, instead of growing, falls. The number of active Poles is also falling. The value of the Treasury companies should grow and it falls. PiS has devastated the labour market in the last five years. This year, 295 000 people will leave the labour market throughout the European Union, will no longer be active, of which 233 000 people will disappear from the Polish labour market, i.e. approx. 80% , but Poles are only 8% the population of the European Union. It will be a tragedy for young Poles. According to the Polish method of counting public debt we will have these 52.7% announced by the government, but if we apply EU methods of calculation, it will turn out that in this budget presented by the government this debt will amount to almost 65% GDP. This budget will, due to EU funds, have to be revised, of course, by refraining from the Prime Minister's veto. This will be a very important contribution to this budget and saving the Polish economy. How is it that the government is planning to increase salaries while not raising doctors' salaries by taking the prize funds in uniform services without increasing teachers' salaries without raising their salaries in the budget? It is also worth asking why privatisation funds are being created. Why would the government want to raise 1.5 billion zlotys there? Perhaps to buy more media companies, because, as you can see, this is the policy of the party and the Treasury today. The government in crisis does not cut money for so-called. church fund or IPN, looking for savings where you shouldn't save money, like for example. in health care. After all, we need to equip hospitals after the pandemic, we need to find the resources to get the hospitals started. normal functioning. It's a matter of self-government. Consequently, the state has been reducing the revenue of local governments for years. And this budget also points out that. Further burdens are imposed on the shoulders of local governments, but there is no funding at all. And the summit of how the governing party treats local governments was the question of dividing the support fund On a discretionary basis, after the party's consideration. It was a drama. Local investment is a very important element of the budget. There shouldn't be politics here. It is worth realizing that if local governments implement public-purpose investments... How to make extra money for local governments from the budget e.g. 50%, the state budget comes back in the form of taxes, led by VAT, calculated from 52 to 54%. In short, it is worth giving as many local governments as possible, because the government doesn't lose anything, and people gain. It is a good thing that there is money in this budget for local government investments, even for the Self-Government Road Fund, but there are not enough of them, and their division raises huge controversy. I say this on behalf of the community of local communities, which are appalled by the fact that today the only criterion which the power and representatives of the United Right accept when allocating funds is the criterion of party membership. This is a thing that has not happened in the last 30 years of the latest history of Poland. This is a kind of self-esteem of self-governments and self-governments, a sense of self-esteem for those who spent the last years of their career managing self-governments on behalf of their residents. My words are an expression of the dissatisfaction of the local communities, the local communities with this country's policy, which is being implemented today. These are not the needs of local politicians, they are the needs of people who live in local, municipal and district Poland. It would be good if this was taken into account when constructing the budget and allocating the appropriations. And the last word on the issue of self-sniffing. At a press conference just now, Prime Minister Gowin announced assistance to mountain regions in the form of 20 billion PLN. I repeat, 20 billion zlotys. How does this apply to the words that Mr. Mr. Frost has said before, that it is best not to dig into this budget anymore, because it is excellent and perfect, and there is no room for further expenses? I would therefore like to ask you how you will get the 20 billion zlotys announced today by Minister Gowin. Where in this budget is that drawer you're gonna pull that $20 billion out of? 20 billion zlotys for the mountaineers? Okay, I love the highlanders and I love the mountains, but there are self-governments waiting for help too. According to what key is this money going to be shared? I would like to remind you that if you actually find 20 billion PLN in this budget... I will remind you that the Fund for Roads of Local Government is about 3 billion PLN per year for the whole of Poland, the Fund for Local Government Investments is 12 billion PLN, and you only want to allocate 20 billion PLN in this budget to mountain areas. I'd like to ask, what's the key you're going to share? What do you mean, what's the definition of a mountain village? Because I don't understand. What is a mountain town? Which municipality is it? Where's the line, where does it end and start? Because I understand that really big losses have been incurred by the municipalities where there are hotels, where there is a hotel next to the hotel, but if we move around, for example. 15 km aside, it turns out that this is a normal, functioning community that is dead only from hotels. What's the key to this money you're gonna be sharing? Where is the border between the mountain municipality and the mountain municipality? Where is she? Ski slopes are not only in the mountains, ski slopes are also in other places of Poland and the question is whether they will be included in this assistance. Senator Bierecki said we're not talking about cutting social spending. You're right, it's great, it's very valuable. It is only necessary to add that this money, which is in the budget and which is transferred for different purposes, comes primarily from debt Yes, Mr. Senator, isn't it? The debt that grows, the debt that grows. You say, "We give, but you give a debt that someone will have to pay." So on the one hand, I bow down because it's very good that money for social purposes is out there, but on the other hand it has to be added that this money comes from debt. And finally, I'm going to repeat what I said again, after what I listened to literally a few minutes ago. You're telling me. I'm also addressing Senator Mroza. Don't touch this budget because it's perfect, don't add your local investments, well, I've also put 20 million zlotys on the end of the New Salt ring road, and on the other hand I see Prime Minister Gowin performing and talking about 20 billion zlotys. So what's it like? Move that budget or don't move it? Is there money or isn't there money? Where are the boundaries between the mountain municipality and the mountain municipality? According to what key will the money be shared? Today, when we are to vote on the budget, Prime Minister Gowin is on TV talking about an additional 20 billion. It is a feeling of self-government and Poles on themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's speech, because he did indeed pay attention to those matters which we, say, did not raise very strongly, decisively and radically. Because in fact, there is absolute chaos in this whole financial system today. Today's declaration by Prime Minister Gowin, who is easily six hundred billion zlotys, is proof of this. I just got a call about half an hour ago from the offshore community entrepreneurs and they said, "Why?" [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u86	But I'm sorry, is that a correction for what you said? [[This is a corrigendum of Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to which Senator Klein refers.]] No, no, Mr. Senator... [[I'm referring to...]] [[I've been informed that the amount of these funds is...]] [[PLN 1 billion.]] [[... 700 million PLN, and Senator Tyszkiewicz shouted 20 billion PLN here.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm talking about a billion zlotys, because that's the amount...]] Please don't interrupt other senators' speeches. You have the right to polemicism if there's anything about your speech. You also have the right, Senator, to enlist in the debate. But it's really not our role as a mutual... You have the full right both to rectify any information concerning you, which is obvious and to forbid a second time to speak in the discussion. I'm so sorry, because I feel terrible as a censor. I don't like it. [[No problem.]] [[Yes, sir. Thank you. I didn't want Senator Klein to go through...]] [[No, Senator Klein isn't involved in this case because he's already identified these amounts...]] But please return to the senate debate. [[Yes.]] Please allow the senator to give a speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u87	I want to return to this debate and I also want to return to Mr Gowin's statement or press conference, which divides Poland in terms of grants and funds that individual municipalities receive. Only because in the south of Poland, in the mountains, entrepreneurs rebelled, it is Prime Minister Gowin who comes and declares that he will pay the funds for the municipalities, for the local governments. It cannot be that in the same industry different solutions are adopted, and this is detrimental to some entrepreneurs. And entrepreneurs who are connected to the tourism industry and live by the sea say: what is the difference? Of course, the scale of mountain tourism at the moment, during the winter period, is certainly much larger than seaside tourism, but tourism by the sea in previous years in the winter periods was also - Really? - Yeah. On a very large scale. And today hotels, all guesthouses... Everything's empty. And at least you just have to talk about these people the same way you talk about other entrepreneurs. If you support some, you also have to think about others. Previously, Senator Frozz talked about Poland being rolled up in our time and giving an example of various types of police stations, etc. So I'd like to ask the senator straight away: how many police stations have been launched from those supposed to have been liquidated in the days of the Civic Platform? Yes, some of the buildings that were police stations have been renovated, but no police officers have ever been introduced there. And this is the real picture of what the rulers are talking about today. So the only way to spend money is to use that kind of information propagandically. It's simple. Another one? Last year, last year, the Maritime Authority in Słupsk was liquidated, right? We're talking about wrapping up Poland. The Maritime Authority in Słupsk has been liquidated. Now there will be 2 offices in Gdynia, the other in Szczecin. So? And this is the destruction of the structure in smaller towns? If the case were closed, but no, today the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is talking about the establishment of the Main Maritime Office. Yes? And guess where this Central Maritime Authority is supposed to be located? [[In Zakopane.]] In Zakopane... Well, if only in Zakopane... In Warsaw, of course, in Warsaw. Main Maritime Office in Warsaw. Just to give a job to some senior PiS politician to be director of the Main Maritime Office. If we really thought in such categories that we were strengthening local Poland, then why such a Main Maritime Authority If it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay. It's Couldn't he be in Slupsk? Where's the staff, where's the building, where are the people? Are those people who live in Slupsk stupider, worse than those who live in Warsaw? Similarly, they can carry out all those tasks that would be faced by the Chief Maritime Authority. Especially since they're competent people. But here's what? You rent a building because there are no buildings at a much higher price than anywhere else, and you're gonna pay for it just to satisfy someone's ridiculous ambitions. You say that in our time Poland was rolled up, I will again talk about the issue of such a local, only our, district, Pomorskie, coastal. The Maritime Port in Ustka, which was intended for modernization... The entire process of modernization was started and it was stopped by the money spent on design is thrown into the mud. Without any justification, without reason, without anything. Kashubian route, i.e. expressway No 6 from Szczecin to Gdynia, to the ring road Tricity. In 2015, a tender was launched for the completion of its construction. For 5 years, any robots were stopped, even though there were resources, but they demagogically said that there was no money for it, there was no money. And after five years, the construction is resumed. In the meantime, there are various ideas for public-private partnerships. Money was spent on these concepts of public-private partnership and was returned to this construction. Five years have been wasted. So? This is human life, the lives of people who live out there in the province. Expressway No 7, the one that starts in Żuków, then flies through Gdansk, through Warsaw and to the south, probably all the way to Chyżny. The section from Mława to Płońska, that is 70 km, is still built, for many years. You can't finish a piece like that. [[Voice from the room: They'll be done next year.]] They'll be done next year, yeah. And the Kashubian express route I'm talking about today, they're saying it's a huge success. It's a success because we started building it, but it should be over by now, and we should be on this road. And today politicians in Slupsk, in Koszalin, PiS ministers say: great success, because we are starting to announce tenders. Five years wasted. Nothing's been done. [[Voice from the room: But there is success.]] But it's a success. You're saying we've been expanding the administration. Senator Gawłowski will probably talk more about this. I don't want to get divorced here. In terms of the number of people, the Polish Waters were of some monstrous size, but the scope of the works carried out by this institution is much smaller than when these offices were in the district or voivodship parts, etc. Today it's centralized, everything falls under one central state institution. Why? Why? Why is this Poland being wound up and why is it the county, local, regional? Only so that the power in Warsaw would be satisfied so that one of the ministers could rule what was going on. I don't know. In Lębork, in Choczew, in Goczyce or anywhere? Why? Why? I don't get it. We'll be looking at the law on windmills at sea in a minute. I'm not gonna talk about her either. Were you Minister of Profit or... What's your name, Minister? [[Voice from the room: Gains.]] Yeah, profit. He was and he was saying great success, ours. We, the PiS government, are building windmills at sea. Yeah, but for five years in this case, everything's been stopped, everything's been revoked. [[Voice from the room: Now they're doing something.]] The concessions were issued in 2012, in 2013 or in 2014. [[Voice from the room: In 2015 it is...]] In 2015, it's... [[Voice from the Chamber: No, 2011]] Even in 2011, yes. [[And how many windmills did you build?]] It was just everything, everything was one step at a time, step by step, environmental behaviour, etc. Now there's panic, because these concessions, most of these permits just lose their power. And those who have prepared these projects either have to withdraw from them or have to start doing something quickly. That's why the new bill is about to start. A great success is true, but on the way five years wasted. And here's the thing. As part of the liquidation of local Poland, everything that is county, local, regional, is connected with Lotos with Orlen, Energa and Orlen, one company is created. Of course, it always happens in such a way that there is one powerful company managed somewhere out there, and the man who wants to be allowed to connect to the power supply waits for months, because the processing of projects, the process takes place elsewhere, because decisions are made not in Lębork, only in Koszalin, Koszalin needs to consult the language in Gdańsk, and Gdansk is in Warsaw. It's just that there's been a complete absurdity in this case. Plus, there's newspapers and so on. Now we're gonna have one company that's gonna run everything. But it is worth paying attention to one thing. Maybe this is also a task for the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Pay attention to such a case, and after all, each of us or almost every one of us fills up fuel at fuel stations, that one company, e.g. Orlen or Lotus station, but the price difference is this... Most often, the smaller the town, the higher the price. I understand that different prices would have different companies, this company, other companies, etc., but in one concern for consumers it is the station that determines... Orlen sets prices that vary greatly between different stations. Is that fair? Is this respect for people, usually those in poorer areas? And it has nothing to do with whether someone is far from Lotus headquarters or from where fuel is produced or from large warehouses. It doesn't depend on whether the transport costs would be high or low. It is simply a policy that, where there is no competitor, we can raise prices there. Where there are more different stations, there are lower prices. Is this a practice that should be acceptable in such companies of the Treasury? So I guess here's just talking about it... We're talking about all these things on the budget. These must be side-related matters, and yet they all have a budgetary dimension as well. I think... this is where Senator Bierecki said we should be held back. The reticent actions we take when we make all kinds of amendments, I don't remember. I've been in Parliament long enough, and I remember when we were in charge, when we were in opposition, and so on. At that time, various kinds of amendments were made, and everyone has the right to do so. Today you just have to look at it that way, even though we're talking about the budget... But let us keep in mind that, apart from parliamentary control, there is a large amount, perhaps even a large part of the resources available to various state institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. I would like to remind you that the budget debate is governed by the same rights 10 minutes and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll remember that in the first part I have 10 minutes at my disposal. I'm afraid I won't even use that time. I would like to refer to the flagship projects announced in the previous term by the PiS government. I'll say two, maybe three projects. The first one concerns water management in Poland. This is an area that has actually been a very neglected area for decades. I remember how in the previous term the government of PiS reported a project, which resulted in the creation of such an institution, which is called the State Water Farm of Poland. I consciously put an accent on the word State. This was intended to improve the management process in the area of water management, ensure consistent, uniform management. Huge money went to these very necessary measures concerning the ailments that sometimes happen to us in Poland, and which we fear in connection with climate change, i.e. protection against flooding and protection against drought. In order not to bore you, I'm going to go to the numbers because they're a great picture of the management in this area by the PiS government. Hard numbers show what kind of disaster the PiS government has led us to. First the budget of the Polish Waters... or the financial plan, because that's exactly what it's called. On the revenue side 1 billion 427 million PLN 224 thousand. And I'm going to refer to how much there was in the years of the Platform's rule. PiS likes such parallels, such comparisons, so I'm gonna talk about it in a minute, but for now, I'm gonna present the financial plan myself. There are 1 billion 758 million 409 thousand on the expenditure side of the Polish Vodka. I'll be honest with you, I've been a parliamentarians for a long time, I've been a minister, but this is the first time I've seen a situation like this in a state institution. In a state institution, I consciously stress this. We're dealing with a deficit. In this financial plan the result was recorded at minus PLN 331 million 165 thousand. This is great management? That's the improvement? Is that better? You don't have any shame, you don't have any shame in this PiS. This is a disaster you've proposed. That's really the reason to fight in the chest. I would add that this institution operates 2,5 years, saying that institution, I am thinking of the National Water Farm Polskie. and has already received a loan twice already. One, almost 1 billion zloty, got from the Ministry of Finance has legal personality, so he can get a loan The second, also close to a billion, from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In the Around Budget Act, this PLN 1 billion loan, which Polskie Waters received from the Ministry of Finance, is remitted, but already in the case of a national fund there is not a word about the return of this money, nor is there any information on how this loss, this financial result will be negative. What does that mean? What does that mean if there's no information? How will this loss be covered? Aren't there gonna be ZUS contributions paid for the extensive administration that I'm about to talk about? Will there not be works to be done, and if they do, will not be paid to the contractors of the works? What does that mean? How do you want to manage this? In order to get to the next details in this section, I will say that before the reform was introduced, which was to build the foundation for efficient management of water management in Poland, the structure looked something like this: there were 7 regional water management boards and 16 regional management boards of melioration and water equipment under marshals. It was the whole structure: 7 directors of RZGW and 16 in the regions. And what does it look like now, after this famous big reform? There are 11 regional water management directors. A horse with a row of who's gonna undress it and tell us why 11. 7 it was because they were in river basins, 11 there is no justification. That's just what they thought, in PiS-owsk: it's better that way, that's how we did it to ourselves, because someone lured it out in Rzeszów, someone lured it out in Bialystok. They just did it like that. But note, there are already 50 water catchment managements, there are already another 50 directors and deputies, the next PiS-iewiczy, which have been established in positions. I do not mention 330 water surveillance, because this is exactly the structure that is built, giant structure, an extensive administration that governs its needs. The famous tender launched at the beginning of last year and at the end of 2020 for the purchase of cars is now being decided, as several hundred cars will be purchased for the purpose of the institution on 15 January. Someone will say, okay, I know, it'll be from the 2020 budget, there won't be any payments in 2021. Okay. But is this the most necessary investment in this part? We're not dealing with floods yet, but I'll give you the numbers. At the meeting of the committee, the president boasted that during the 2.5 year of operation of the Polish Vodka, 183 km of voivodships were renovated and built. Let us compare this with the times when the Platform ruled: annual investments of 263 km were carried out on average each year. A year, not in two and a half years. But if I compared it to five years of PiS rule, it's actually 32 km that's a reason to be proud, that's really a reason to be proud. I, of course, hear the announcements that there's a big flood protection program, a big retention program, we're gonna introduce a new tax, we're gonna collect money... we don't know what it's for. Just for a good cause, it has nothing to do with actions related to flood protection or drought protection, and this is a really serious threat, because Poland, I remind you, is a country in which in terms of one Pole... We belong to a group of countries in the European Union and in the world with the least amount of water... The national average is 1.6 m3 per citizen, the European average is 4.5, I do not remember exactly, and the world average is about 7 m3. This also shows the scale, where we are, as far as this is concerned, and that we should really make sense of water management. So much for the waters, although I could talk much longer and show the scale of incompetence and collapse of this area, really fall. There's a reason for shame in every dimension. I also want to refer to another flagship project. In 2018 Prime Minister Morawiecki said that one of the most important challenges facing us in Poland is air protection. I'm totally signing off on it, all of it. He also announced the implementation of a program called "Clean Air." In 2018 he said that in the next 10 years, i.e. by 2028, well, let's say 2029, to stop picking on, 103 billion PLN will be spent for this purpose. It's easy to calculate that it's a little over 10 billion zlotys a year. I once, at a committee meeting, had already argued that for this purpose, for 2019 and 2020 it was spent or contracted, including EU funds, funds of PLN 2.5 billion or PLN 3 billion. Significantly less than PLN 10 billion. And that's in two years. Well, I'm looking in the budget for your item entitled: "Clean air expenditure'. Well, in the state budget for this purpose, I'm sure you know that. It's exactly zero zlotys. Zero. Zero. The money is in the financial plan of an institution called the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Yeah, but I'm looking for some of the famous 10 billion zlotys, including other projects that would somehow be haunted. It turns out that only PLN 1 billion 700 million is foreseen in the financial plan for this purpose. From the point of view of the challenge we face, and from the point of view of what the Prime Minister has declared, it has nothing to do with reality. Project... In all the positions where you will look for expenditure for this purpose, you will find PLN 1 billion 700 million. That's all there is. This is another of the great flagship projects carried out by the current government. This is supposed to be the reason for pride and contentment, although actually another area called. It's empty-mouthed and propaganda. And last but not least, not to prolong I don't want to talk about the next areas. I will say that there are items, as colleagues mentioned, of expenditure in the state budget that are unclear and incomprehensible. E.g. amounts for the purchase of PGE EJ, i.e. the company which was set up by 3 or 4 entities of PGE, probably Tauron, KGHM and I do not remember who else To build the first nuclear power plant in Poland. It's a commercial project. For six years, it's really frozen. The Minister of Climate and Environment finally admitted after further questions that the government intends to purchase this company. Buy-back from myself in total, because these companies that I mentioned are companies controlled by the government, these are companies of the Treasury. So I wonder why do it, why spend tens, hundreds of millions... I don't know how much, because it's a secret. I do not know why public money, here the Minister asks why public expenditure in any area is covered by a secret? I want to know how much you want to spend on this, how much you're really going to spend on helping energy companies that have serious financial problems because of bad management, just bad management, bad management. Incompetent people, whom you put on your stools, who are not doing well, who have led us to the fact that in Poland we have the most expensive energy in the European Union, and who have led to the fact that all companies have a really bad financial condition... You want to help them like this? Don't tell me you're gonna build a nuclear power plant. Don't tell me, because it's really that level of propaganda that kids don't believe anymore. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm finishing up, Mr. Marshal. I'm going to finish. [[It's a very good ending.]] Oh, yeah. [[Thank you very much. 11 minutes.]] ...when I read this budget, it feels like it's propaganda broken into incompetence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u90	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz, remotely. [[Voice from the room: Going twice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u91	Hello, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]] Can you hear me? [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] Hello, hello? [[I can hear you. You have five minutes, Senator.]] I'm shorter, Mr. Marshal, because I promised I wouldn't be here the second time... I would just like to speak in the ad vocem procedure, because two senators spoke to me after I spoke. The first senator is Senator Tyszkiewicz. Well, Mr. Senator, I know you signed up for me. Mr. Minister, Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin hasn't had time to say everything, you haven't read everything yet, and you've already criticized it, and you've misunderstood. Support for municipalities, for the tourism industry, which the Prime Minister announced today, is PLN 1 billion. A billion. Of this is 700 million for mountain communities in two forms, for investments and for reimbursement of property tax losses. The rest of this 1 billion will also support other tourist communities. And the 20 billion you were talking about... Where did the 20 billion come from, and where did the government hide it in the budget? This 20 billion is not support for mountain communities, because, of course, they do not need such support, that is generally support for all actors, for all entrepreneurs within the shield, provided according to the PKD at the next point such support will be provided. And this will be implemented within the Polish Development Fund, so these funds are not visible in the budget. That's one correction. And the second corrigendum, to Senator Kleina, who said about these... I was talking about closing down Poland and closing down the precincts, and Senator Klein said, "Senator, tell me how many of these stations you've recreated." According to the data that I have been able to establish in the last few minutes, in the years 2018 and 2019 the data for 2020 unfortunately I have not been able to obtain the 45 posts that were previously decommissioned. I'm gonna talk about one of those precincts that's been recreated. It's about the Goldish district and my district of Świetawa. The whole community has sought this, including the local authorities, and it is not written, the local authorities in Świerzawa are formally independent, but with left-wing orientation, a little far from it... The station began to play back, i.e. the whole procedure was initiated, for Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. Then there was a change in the MSWiA and it was ended by Minister Joachim Brudziński, who, out of respect for these inhabitants, this community, for these efforts, came personally to this small town of Świewa for the reconstruction of this decommissioned post. If you go online, you'll probably find some information about it. I'm addressing Senator Kleina here. Of course, we've reconstructed this station somewhere else, because the building's already... Well, in the place where the guy was wound up, it couldn't be done, but we found another place, we found another location, and the station is, it's working. Today you can go there, I invite you to the beautiful golden land. And these are the two elements of the correction. Taking advantage of the occasion 'Cause I read it somewhere. I'll say good luck to the marshal for his birthday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator... Are you done? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I can actually afford to hit my chest. It's just that when we're working on the budget, the media is playing so-called. rats and e.g. He appears at a press conference, like today, Mr. Gowin, and he's talking about billions. It's okay that when... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I heard him say that and he was talking about 20 billion, but of course that's the help... Senator Frost is right that this is total aid, and it's really going to be 1 billion, okay. So the headlines on the media and on TV, where the 20 billion were scrolling, were a little confusing. And I'm sorry about that. We're talking 1 billion. Yes, ma'am, but that doesn't change the state of things. After all, Senator Frost urged us not to dig into the budget, because he is so perfect, not to make any adjustments, but to leave the way he is. Well, how is it that today we are working on the budget, Prime Minister Gowin is talking about 1 billion, and the headlines of the newspaper are talking about it unambiguously: Help for mountain communities. Gowin responds to the uprising of the Highlanders. It's gonna be a mutiny tomorrow, say, a floppy or someone else. How does this fit into the budget that we're going to be adopting today? So it's 1 billion, yeah, 1 billion, but my questions remain unchanged. According to what key is this gonna be done? Where's the line? Who's gonna call it a mountain town? I love the highlanders, like I said, and I have my own personal interest somewhere in the mountains, and I would also like this industry to be supported in some way. But I talked to the Highlanders a few days ago and I'll tell them what they're saying: "It's best that our hands are untied so we don't get disturbed. We'll be fine. We don't need any help, we'll be fine. And they're devastated that they don't know if they're gonna open the hotels on the 17th or not. etc. The question is whether, if a hotel, say, in a mountain village And the definition we don't know is closed and its owner is suffering losses... We do not know whether Polish or foreign. But how does this apply to the situation of a hotel in another municipality, which will be unmountable, but there are huge losses and there are no revenues? Isn't that the sting of one another? Isn't that a bitch, if one local government is, so to speak, somewhere on the border of this definition of mountain municipality, and the other local government is somewhere else, and this one local government gets 8 million zlotys for investments, and another local government doesn't get it? So one more time, one billion... But it's a lot, too, and throwing a rat like that in the budget is probably speaking for itself. And there's something at the end, and I'd like to ask you a question, by the way. Why the government in crisis, when there is a pandemic, when it is very difficult and when money is little, when we are told not to report our local investment even though for example. My city has had an unfinished ring road for many, many years and it would have to be finished eventually, and if there was any help, maybe it would have been easier... I ask the question: why does the government buy hotels through subsidiaries at such a time? Is there anyone who can answer that? During the pandemic, during the crisis, when we say there's no money, the government buys hotels. Maybe someone can explain to me why in times of difficulty, when there is no money, when there is a crisis, when everything is missing, the government through its subsidiaries, see: Orlen buys all over Poland 20 regional and local journals and 120 or even more than 120 local weekly newspapers? What kind of money? Why? But that money is needed! And Orlen is a subsidiary. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm working with the fitness industry, which is devastated because it's completely shut down. If someone else is driving, for example. Hairdresser... I see the barbershops are open, so you can still go and cut yourself. But the fitness industry is completely exhausted, it's closed, it doesn't work, it doesn't exist. Help is illusory. They're begging for help because most companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. So please tell me why a subsidiary, in which the Polish State has shares, i.e. PZU, comes into the fitness industry I do not know if you know. Yeah, she's in the fitness business, because she's gonna deal with those cards we have, she's gonna distribute them and make money in the fitness business. Why, if this is an industry where private companies work perfectly and there's no need to get involved? PZU is in the fitness business. Why? It is also a subsidiary of the State Treasury. To sum up, I'm going to say again: whether it's 1 billion zlotys, whether it's 20 billion zlotys, doesn't significantly change the fact that on the day we adopt the budget, we learn from the media that some industry or some group of people in a country that has put pressure on it. Or maybe this is due to the fact that this is actually a significant group of voters. He gets the money, and others have to deal with the taste. Other companies, other hotels must be prepared for bankruptcy. There's a line somewhere. There's a line somewhere. I don't know if it's political or not, between two local governments, and for one there's gonna be money, 8 million to invest and tax-deductible for companies! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u94	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanislaw Ożog, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u95	Hello! [[We can hear the senator.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the fact that I am speaking for the first time this year, I wish you and all your fellow Members good health this new year, health and health once again. Because precisely, in my case, this health wish is of particular importance. Today we're at a special moment because we're discussing the budget. Budgets are budgetary parts, divisions, chapters, but in this debate today It's very interesting. There is little discussion about these particular items in parts, in sections, in chapters. There's a lot of weird and puzzling voices. Let's not dig it up. Let's discuss it. The budget is good, the budget can be improved, we have special times, we have a special pandemic time, so let's talk in a responsible manner. And I call for that responsibility. My thoughts are especially directed to my colleagues with a local family lineage, with which I am very much identified, as are my previous speakers Kazimierz, Wadim and more. As part of my option, we have also talked repeatedly about the fact that in the Senate of this term there are many specific, very important tasks to be carried out. We should set ourselves the goal of deciding over political divisions, trying to decide... Therefore, I ask, with great respect to each of you, that we proceed to the debate on this budget and on reality after this budget in a very responsible manner. That was my short speech. I believe that I will also take the floor in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I wish you all the best and especially health in this new year and the entire term of office. Happy birthday, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u96	Thank you, Senator. We wish you health, too. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I'm telling you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Ewa Matecka, Jolanta Hibner, Ryszard Świlski and Benjamin Godyla submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Halina Bieda, Jerzy Wcisła, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Sławomir Rybicki, Jan Filip Libicki, Adam Szejnfeld, Bogdan Zdrojewski, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Wadi Tyszkiewicz Together, Marek Martynowski, Kazimierz Kleina, Rafał Ambrozik, Tomasz Grodzki, Lidia Staroń, Wojciech Koniety, Barbara Zdrojewska, Ryszard Świlski, Artur Dunin, Alicja Chybicka, Joanna Sekuła, Beata Małecka-Libera, Ryszard Bober, Benjamin Godyla, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Paweł Arndt, Marcin Bosacki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Krzysztof Brejza, Leszek Czarnobaj, Janusz Gromek, Agnieszka Gor-Komor, Stanisław Gawłowski, Stanisław Lamczyk, Magdalena Kochan, Władysław Komarnicki, Robert Dowhan, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... In other words, does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Mr. Marshal, thank you.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on the second day of the sitting, which is tomorrow. Thank you, ministers. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 303 and the committee's report In print No 303 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear guests! I present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Amendments were tabled to the bill, which were examined during the committee meeting. I am making an additional 10 amendments, which we will proceed with after the committee has been convened, and I am presenting the following at the moment. The aim of the Act is to introduce further solutions to improve the functioning of state bodies and protect citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic. To this end, the novel amends the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, including inter alia. Act on public service of blood, Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, Law on proceedings before administrative courts, Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds, Act on the pursuit and fight against infectious infections and diseases in people, Act on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the Schengen Information System and Visa Information System, Law on Family Support, Law on aliens, Law on Free Legal Assistance, Free Civic Advice and Legal Education, Law on Higher Education and Science, Act on the amendment of the Act on Commercial Companies Code and other laws, Act on Specific Instruments of Support in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, Act on the amendment of certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus and Act on Polish Tourist Bone. The Act provides for a number of solutions for the heat and end-user sector, the atomic sector, including radiological protection, the railway sector, including railway infrastructure managers and rail passenger transport operators, the air transport sector, education and training sectors including universities, cinema industry, the care sector, including support for disabled persons in the framework of occupational activities and care and care services, family homes of children and social integration centres. Changes in the heat supplier sector are intended to ensure continuous heat supply to housing and public institutions, including hospitals and health clinics. Support for transport sector entities, including rail transport, is intended to include, inter alia, on the financing of charging for the use of railway infrastructure in connection with the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 for PKP PLK SA and railway infrastructure managers, the financing of rail passenger transport operators in public collective transport costs for the recognition of statutory allowances for reduced journeys by public transport. The facilitations also concern the air transport sector, including in particular the extension of the various necessary powers, the renewal of which is hindered under epidemic conditions. The amendment provides for the amendment of the provisions of the Law of 26 May 1982, and of the Law of 22 March 2018 on bailiffs in such a way as to allow for remote assemblies of lawyers and bailiffs and elections at these assemblies without the need for the physical presence of the entitled. The Act also provides for a further nine months of the term of validity of the powers of the Radiation Protection Supervisor. On the basis of the article. 31zzs of the Act on Special Solutions for COVID-19 Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection at the request of the Director of the Polish Film Institute will provide the Polish Film Institute with funds of PLN 120 million to finance or finance costs which entities operating in the field of cinema, performing activities or providing services in Poland have incurred or will incur during the period from 1 November to 30 April 2021. The funds will be an additional source of revenue of the Polish Film Institute. The novel proposes to grant to blood donors who have paid at least 3 donations of whole blood or plasma following COVID-19 disease, temporary support for a period of not more than 6 months from the date of issue of the relevant certificate in the form of the right to purchase one-off tickets with a reduction of 33% for national transport by means of public collective transport: rail, first and second classes of passenger and hurried trains, as well as bus trains. The amendments to the Act of 27 August on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities aim to enable the smooth management of public funds and to simplify and shorten the implementation of cases, as well as to simplify the information obligation on reduced payments to the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for employers with a certificate of availability. The amendment to the Law of 30 August 2002 on the Law of the Administrative Courts consists of an extension of the wording of the Article. 5 on the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs as the determining authority for the application for a visa. The modification of the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care concerns the granting of a right to use in addition to the order of health care services and pharmaceutical services provided in blood donors pharmacies, which gave 3 donations of whole blood or plasma after COVID-19 disease. The amendment to the Act of 5 December 2008 on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases in humans lays down rules and procedures for preventive vaccination against COVID-19. In the event of an epidemic or epidemic that has been declared due to COVID-19, protective vaccination is to be preceded by medical examination in order to rule out a contraindication to its performance. In the event of an epidemic or epidemic that has been declared due to COVID, protective vaccinations against COVID-19 may be carried out by doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, rectors, paramedics, as well as physiotherapists, pharmacists, school hygienists, laboratory diagonists, who are appropriately qualified. A central electronic registration system will be set up for protective vaccination against COVID-19 in which the information necessary for carrying out these vaccinations, such as personal data, data contained in the referral to vaccination will be processed. Technical support for this system... The amendment to the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for families and the foster care system consists of the introduction of arrangements obliging persons operating replacement care during an epidemic or epidemic state to ensure cooperation with the relevant services, to provide staff with an adequate level of information on the current legal status and to monitor the state of supply of personal protective equipment and to respond promptly in the event of a likelihood of a lack of such coverage. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 The 14th new law on foreigners is being amended in such a way as to give the Minister responsible for foreign affairs the competence to issue Schengen visas and national visas. Amendment to the Act of 5 August 2015 on free legal assistance, free civic guidance and legal education... The Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science proposes to introduce changes to: abolishing the minimum level of apprenticeships in practical studies of 6 months or 3 months, depending on the level of studies; harmonising the rules on doctoral training; maintaining the validity of doctoral cards. The Act of 16 April 2020 proposes: that universities amend the recruitment resolutions for the recruitment for studies starting in the second semester of 2020/2021 and in the academic year 2021/2022, that universities amend the rules for the admission of winners and the finalists of the Central Olympics to studies. And we can actually talk about the amendment in the Act of 15 July 2020 about the Polish Tourist Bon, which includes the creation of Polish Tourist Bon. possibility of payment bonem for day-old tourist events which do not include accommodation. The Commission, after voting on the amendments, requests the adoption of a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u98	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Adam Szejnfeld wants to ask you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u99	Mr Senator, I have a question about the initiative that you have announced and submitted in writing to the Marshal, i.e. I'm sure you're making 10 amendments. Well, it would be good for us to know what these corrections are. In short, how could you present them... Thank you very much. [[I can present them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u100	Then I'll ask for the amendments that the Senator rapporteur has tabled. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u101	Amendment one. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 in the following Article: 9a in the mouth. Point 1 (1) shall be inserted after the words "service activities'. So it's an editorial amendment. Amendment two. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 in the introduction to the calculation of the words "after Article." The following Article 9 is inserted: 9a in the wording is replaced by the following: In item 2... [[Excuse me. Mr. Senator, why don't you just introduce the idea of what's going on, not that...]] Uh-huh. We'll check it out. Good. Reason... Justification for amendment three. The aim of the amendment is to restore the amended Article. 5 point 7 of the Law of 27 November... [[But the senator needs to read it to explain what these amendments are all about.]] I just got it, and it's not all clear to me yet. The Minister who made these amendments will have to be questioned. Reason... The amendment is intended to restore... Amendment three is aimed at restoring... [[Excuse me. I'm sorry.]] [[But the senator wants to answer your question, Senator.]] Exactly. [[And he wants to read the amendments.]] [[But he doesn't answer... at the committee meeting we accepted amendments, including. Two of mine and a couple of Senator Blankets. There were no other amendments. Now the senator is reporting 10 amendments as rapporteur. That is why, firstly, I am surprised, and secondly, I wanted to know what these amendments were, what they were about, and not what their content was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u102	Mr. Senator, the senator needs to read and see for himself. So, Mr. Senator, to the extent that you can, answer, read these amendments, and that will be the answer. You're welcome, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please also do not expect detailed information on the amendments... [[Exactly.]] They will be presented at the committee meeting. And if you're... [[At the committee meeting. Right.]] I would also like to remind you, Senator, that the amendments that were tabled at the committee meeting were not your amendments either, but those were the proposals of the Legislative Bureau that you took over... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...so it seems that this discussion is pointless.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u104	Mr. Senator, are you the rapporteur? [[No.]] Then why are you taking the floor? The question is for the rapporteur, and the senator will answer in the manner he can answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u105	So I have tabled these 10 amendments and I expect the committee to decide on the fate of these amendments in the vote. That's it. I'll get to know it and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u106	Thank you very much. [[These amendments I would like to make.]] There are no more questions. You're welcome. I'm making adjustments. Now we're going to proceed with the procedure. The bill was filed by the government. Mr Łukasz Schreiber was authorised to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers, Łukasz Schreiber: No.]] No?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u107	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the Senator rapporteur presented the matter of the project in very detail, and I am I did it at the committee meeting. As I see, the majority of the senators who participate in the debate also attended the joint committee meeting this morning. Moreover, ministers are with me responsible for those departments of administration whose changes are made. So, if you'll allow us, we'll just answer questions, if they come up, about specific cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u108	Thank you very much. And can the Minister answer what the ten amendments tabled by your rapporteur are about in general?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u109	Yes. My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, 8 of these 10 amendments concern changes in the area of health. Perhaps the Minister would have said so. These are amendments, to a great extent, to say technically and editorially. These are indeed the amendments we would expect at this stage of work. One, perhaps more important, makes a change of this kind, that in the matter of doctors or even doctors seconded to work by the voivode... So far the resources, the 200% , were paid to them from the COVID fund and now would be paid from the budget part of the voivodship that occurs from the special reserve. That's the eight shifts. One of these amendments concerns, as far as I know, infrastructure issues. This is also a technical change that will help a little, will make it easier for carriers to count and apply for this grant, which is enshrined in this draft law. So I guess that's a friendly change, too. The last change concerns development, in fact gives powers and opportunities for a regulation that is being prepared, it can be said that it is also such a regulatory, technical change. There's nothing here, I think, that could cause any doubt or dissatisfaction from the senators. Well, of course, this is a matter of your decision and discussion on this subject. If this is to be discussed in some way in detail, then they are the appropriate ministers. You are Minister of Health Sławomir Gadomski, Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel, Minister of Labour, Development and Technology, Mr Marek Niebożak. If so, they are ready to discuss these changes in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. That's enough for me. But are there any other questions? [[Yes.]] There isn't? [[Mr. Czerwinski.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have an article question. 11. I think he's in the middle of work... he's not in the original project. This is a revision of the 2008 Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, and this is really the issue of vaccination, the general rules for vaccination on COVID. I understand that he seems to have come to work during the Seym, only that we have such a situation that vaccinations are already ongoing, there is a scheme of these vaccinations and physically our doctors are already vaccinated, and this law, at least as far as this article is concerned. 11, enters into force And that's what Art. 40, the last day following the day of the announcement. So it's gonna be the next day. The question is whether it is appropriate to add to the article which refers to the entry into force of the article. 11, such a derogation... that is, not a derogation, but an authorisation to enter into force on the day after the date of the announcement with retroactive effect, which means that these rules are already in force in the case of actual vaccinations, let's call it a vaccination process?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u112	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u113	This very good point, precisely in one of the amendments that have been tabled, is that proposal. Well, unfortunately, about... we all know how important it was to start vaccinations after all. It's exactly as the senator says, and as of December 27th... unfortunately, it's written down, but it seems that the target is so important that we have to turn a blind eye to it and understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u114	Thank you. Are there any other questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'll be honest with you, analyzing this bill. As I understand it, the next shield, although it's strange that every time we heard about Shield 1.0, Shield 2.0, Shield 3.0, Shield 4.0, we've finally been discussing a law changing this original as over Shield 6.0, and here there's no presentation that it's Shield 7.0, I don't know why, but it's the same cycle... And, to be honest, I feel a certain ambivalence when it comes to assessing this bill. Because on the one hand, the solutions that are proposed here are, for example: the heat supply sector, public transport including rail, bus, air, radiology, cinematography, blood donors, PFRON, vaccination rules against COVID, as mentioned here just now, higher education or at the end of the tourist voucher, should be received and recorded in principle positively. There are no revolutions here, there are no big additional changes or new support instruments, we have corrections, extensions of deadlines, so it can be said that this is what should be, on a minimum scale. Well, that's actually a lot of reflection in terms of positive. The whole world, so to speak, economic, all entrepreneurs have been waiting for another version of the shield, to find out that the government will prepare and create for them further support instruments or will use existing support instruments to help, for example, in narrowing down, to those sectors that suffer most, and they must be included, for example. Widely understood tourism industry, hotel, event, conference, trade fair or catering industry... Unfortunately, the reader of this law will find no solution to save or support these industries. And what I'm saying is that there are a lot of companies out there that might knock on their door, of course. In a few months or at the end of the year we will no longer see on the Polish market because they will go bankrupt. If this is the case with state aid to these companies, they won't survive, they won't survive. It's hard to accept that approach. There are also no solutions in this law that some entrepreneurs have been waiting for, namely the deferral of their obligations, which entered into on 1 January. The bill is from December, but it was prepared, I understand, weeks or months earlier. Further bureaucratic and financial responsibilities that could have been shifted over time were unnecessarily introduced. I mean, above all, PPK. As we know, January 1st began another phase. The third and fourth stages have entered into force, primarily concerning micro and small companies, for which these are very heavy burdens. Anyway, let's see how successful it is. In quotes, of course. It has carried out the PPK programme. The Prime Minister predicted that it would cover 75% companies and people employed there, and 77% She's already out of it. People are running away from this, not getting into this program. To postpone this by six months or a year would be beneficial for everyone, but it's not here. In addition, businesses, especially small catering companies, are complaining that they have also been subject to the obligation to introduce fiscal cash registers. This could also be moved due to the COVID. Well, there are important and more important things. Another issue that raises doubts is that, as I said earlier, yes, there are envisaged solutions to support public collective transport, but I don't know why. They are to cover only the railway, i.e. the PKP, and public bus transport, but not urban transport. And we know that cities lose horribly on public transport during the pandemic, because many people who even want to drive it do not use it because of their fears. But above all, the reason are restrictions, administrative restrictions on the number of people who can be transported simultaneously on the bus. Well, of course, it's a huge loss. Another issue, which is very questionable, is a very serious extension of the scope of expropriations under the pretext of making investments. It is difficult to understand why this is possible due to the planned construction of the Central Communication Port for many, many years. Now, in a time of pandemic, you will have the opportunity to properly expropriate people. The same is true when it comes to differentiation... As I said, PKP is supported in the field of public transport, but MPK is no longer. This is also the case when it comes to taking into account the needs of LOTs and the whole sector. Well, the situation of regional airports is not taken into account here, and it is they who lose very much. Some lost even over 80% passenger air traffic. These airports require urgent support, rescue. This bill doesn't foresee it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to say that, in general, the bill will be supported by us, but we should complement it with the necessary solutions, at least to a minimum. I will submit a few amendments to this bill, among others. one that will eliminate these incomprehensible, unnecessary expropriation arrangements, and amendments that will, as a rule, align public rail and bus transport with public public urban transport, so that cities can also get help to maintain their public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u116	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Wojciech Piech, Senators Marek Borowski and Kazimierz Klein and Senator Adam Szejnfeld. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Minister of the Council of Ministers, Łukasz Schreiber: No. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the third item on the agenda: the Strategic Reserves Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 304 and the report of the committee In print No 304 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Strategic Reserves Act. The Commission examined the law at its meeting on 5 January 2021. 13 amendments were tabled to the bill. After the vote, the committee shall request that the bill be adopted together with the amendments. I also tabled two amendments. There you go, Mr. Marshal... [[You have to sign...]] Thank you. The aim of the Act is to effectively secure the Republic of Poland and its citizens in the event of risks which may cause disruptions in the supply and demand of certain goods and goods on the market and thus adverse consequences for the security of the State. The Act provides for the change of the name of the Material Reserve Agency to the Government Strategic Reserve Agency, which is intended to reflect the actual scope of the Agency's tasks and competences. The body responsible for the system of strategic reserves of the Republic of Poland will be the President of the Council of Ministers under the new law. The Agency will, as until now, be an executive agency carrying out the tasks entrusted to it. With regard to statutory definitions, new concepts have been defined: a specialised technical assortment of strategic reserves covering machinery, materials, machinery, equipment and constructions enabling the smooth reproduction of damaged or damaged infrastructure elements, the use of which may reduce the effects of natural disaster or technical failure; a specialised medical assortment of strategic reserves covering machinery and other objects used for health protection purposes. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 The scope of the tasks for which strategic reserves are set up to support implementation. The task of implementing the national interests of the Republic of Poland as well as providing assistance and support to entities governed by public international law is added here. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 the catalogue of strategic reserves has been extended and other products necessary to achieve the objectives set out in Article have been taken into account. 3. This formula of the reserve directory will better respond to the needs related to the creation of strategic reserves within the programme. The Act, as in the current Strategic Reserve Act, determines that the strategic reserves constitute a separate property of the State Treasury. It is also maintained that the application of the Code of Administrative Procedure is excluded for all decisions issued in the field of strategic reserves. Such a solution is justified by such a fact that the cases covered by these decisions are in fact not individual matters within the meaning of the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. All tasks in the field of management and supervision of the system of strategic reserves of the Republic of Poland will be taken over by the President of the Council of Ministers from the Minister responsible for energy matters. The President of the Council of Ministers shall be the coordinator of crisis management at central level, the Chairman of the Government's Crisis Management Team. Chapter 2 of the Act contains the principles of planning, programming and financing of strategic reserves. The range and quantity of reserves will define, as has been the case so far, a programme that will be developed by the President of the Council of Ministers in cooperation with the Agency for a period of 5 years. The new regulation contained in Article. 8 also implies enlargement In comparison to the previous The scope of the content taken into account in the planning and programming of resources and tasks in the field of strategic reserves. Additional indications will be added, i.e. assessment of the risk to national security and the national interest of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the actors involved in the programme development will be required to take this into account in the information provided to the President of the Council of Ministers on the review of the current programme and the assessment of the effectiveness of its implementation. The programme, as before, will be adopted by the Council of Ministers by a resolution. The programme is to be a multi-annual programme within the meaning of the Public Finance Act, financed by the State budget in the form of a targeted grant and an entity grant. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 the proposed law extends the scope of tasks financed by the programme to new tasks carried out by the Agency. The programme will finance the organisation of services, including transport and logistics services, and the management of real estate. According to Art. 13 The President of the Council of Ministers will in principle create strategic reserves on the basis of the programme. At the same time, by deciding to set up reserves where there is a threat to the security and defence of the State, security, order and public health, or when a natural disaster or a crisis occurs... As in the current legal situation, the Agency will be able to store its strategic reserves in its own warehouses or hand them over for remuneration to businesses, public administrations or non-business entities. A new legal institution will be able to maintain reserves by the Agency in the form of contracts to remain ready to provide services. This structure will give the Agency the power to conclude with entities carrying out activities in the production or storage of a given assortment or to provide certain capacity maintenance contracts or contracts to remain ready to provide specific services for strategic reserves. New forms of reserve maintenance will be designed to increase the efficiency of this process. The main mode of provisioning strategic reserves will, as so far, be to make the system of strategic reserves available by decision of the supervisory authority, i.e. President of the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the provisions of Article. 19 The President of the Council of Ministers will make available the entire range of strategic reserves. This provision will be made available free of charge, and if reserves are made available with the obligation to repay them, this will be the result of the content of the decision. It is also envisaged to terminate the special arrangements for the provision of reserves for the purposes of the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Justice or the Head of the Internal Security Agency. In the rules governing the organisation of the process of making strategic reserves available by the Agency, contained in Article. 21, provision is made for provisions to be made available with a repayment obligation. In such a case, the Agency will make available a given range of strategic reserves on the basis of a contract with the entity to which the reserves are made available. Another new option, which is a separate provisioning mode, is the regulation contained in Article. 23 of the proposed bill. Under this provision, rules are introduced to make available the specialised medical assortment of strategic reserves covering machinery, equipment and other objects used for health purposes. On the basis of the new regulation, the President of the Council of Ministers will be entitled to make available to the public organisational units, local government units or entrepreneurs of a specific specialised medical assortment for payment. Chapter 5 of the Act regulates issues related to the liquidation of strategic reserves. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 25 The way in which the reserves are wound up has been extended by introducing other forms of sale of depreciated reserves. This is the sale on other commodity exchanges than the stock exchange within the meaning of the Trade Exchange Act of 26 October 2000 and the sale by auction. In addition, it will be possible to sell the assortment of cancelled reserves in a mode other than strictly specified in the Act. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 the catalogue of entities to which the Agency will be free of charge to transfer the list of depreciated reserves to entities whose statutory objectives justify the decision to transfer free of charge. Such a solution will provide the opportunity to support actors pursuing important social objectives, taking into account the free transfer. Chapter 6 repeats the provisions in force in the current legal state. Provisions contained in Article. The 38th Strategic Reserves Act was introduced in May 2020. Their introduction was the result of a reaction to the threat and a pandemic. The legal form of the agency will not change. The Government's Strategic Reserve Agency is to remain an executive agency within the meaning of the Public Finance Act. Following the acquisition from the Minister responsible for Energy of all management and supervision tasks in the strategic reserve system by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Agency will be supervised directly by him. The President of the Council of Ministers shall assign its statutes and appoint the President of the Agency, his alternate or his alternates from among the persons selected by means of an open competition, competitive recruitment. The new regulations on the organisation of the Agency do not require the establishment of its off-road units in the form of field units. The Agency's previous tasks have been maintained, and at the same time its catalogue has been significantly expanded. Firstly, new tasks will be put in place for agencies to organise services, including transport and logistics services for their own benefit and for other actors organising support activities. Another new task is to manage real estate owned by the Agency or held by the Agency. In order to effectively carry out the property management task, the provisions of Article shall be excluded. The Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union did not have jurisdiction In cases where the Agency does not use strategic reserves to store reserves in them, it remains possible to use them for commercial purposes: rental, lease. The Agency's catalogue of tasks also adds an entitlement in the form of the possibility of making available strategic reserves and other tasks in the framework of assistance, support for bodies governed by public international law. There has been no such regulation so far. One of the objectives of the Act is to amend the rules governing employment in the Agency. The draft law raises the level of professional experience requirements for candidates for employment as president and deputy directors of the agency. In accordance with the proposed regulations, such person must, regardless of other requirements, have at least 10 years' working experience, including at least 5 years in a managerial position. In the view of the designers, in view of the agency's activities and the high value of its procurement, the establishment of a catalogue of persons covered by the obligations to limit the activity and to make periodic statements on the assets will ensure greater transparency of the agency's activities. Chapter 8 of the draft law contains provisions on the financial economy of the agency. The revenue of the agency is among others. special grants from the State budget as defined annually in the Budget Act for the implementation of the tasks set out in the Act. And what else? In order to ensure the smooth operation of the system of strategic reserves, in addition to securing financial resources for the creation, maintenance and decommissioning of reserves, it is also necessary to secure budgetary resources to finance the cost of making those reserves available, including their release for use to customers, transport to final recipients and distribution, their processing and storage. The Agency's annual financial plan shall include the Agency's own revenue, State budget grants, an overview of the Agency's operating costs and the costs of carrying out tasks, a financial result, resources for property expenditure. The Agency shall keep accounts in accordance with the accounting rules. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 43 It is assumed that the Agency will be able to take up and acquire shares in commercial companies in exchange for claims for the performance of tasks in the field of strategic reserves. This assumption is a consequence of the Agency's establishment of cooperation with a large number of entities which, on the basis of trade agreements, the Agency has ordered the storage of strategic reserves, but will also commission other services. The purpose of these provisions is to allow the possibility of recovery of the Agency's claims resulting from the implementation of the contract, and in the absence of the possibility Their execution in a different mode. Amendments to Article 60 are of an adjustment nature. Sources of funding. The proposed solutions will be financed by the state budget because of the strategic reserve function in the State's security and defence system. The law leaves the state budget as the main source of funding for the tasks in question. That's all about the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u118	Thank you, Senator. Would any of the senators like to report from a place that lasts no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur? I can't hear you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Does Minister Rafał Siemianowski wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Rafał Siemianowski: Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The rapporteur presented the law and the reasons in very detail, so that it seems to me that it is not necessary for me to speak at this stage.]] Thank you very much. But maybe there'll be questions for you. Let me remind you: the questions should not last more than one minute and should be related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As usual, there is a question related to transitional provisions, or actually to the final provision. Art. 81, the last one, says that the bill enters into force 14 days after the announcement, but there are exceptions. One of these exceptions is Article. 66, which is to enter into force on 1 July 2023. And now we reach for this article. 66. He amends the 2019 Act on amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens. One of these amendments is Amendment No 3, which adds Article in this 2019 Act. 85a, which speaks, generally speaking, of the financing rules. Those funding rules have been established since 2021 and limits are imposed. So, what do we got? We have the entry into force of this law, I would call it, the mother's law, in this respect, the article. 66, 1 July 2023, and at the same time the same article normalizes the situation from earlier years, before the entry into force, i.e. 2021, 2022 and the first half of 2023. Shouldn't it be written here, perhaps not with the exception of, and within the scope of, this added article. Article 85a 66 that with a retroactive date from 2021?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u120	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u121	In our opinion, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator... [[The equipment's out.]] As far as the administrative side is concerned, it's appropriate here. As for this early spending and the launch of this platform itself, the point is that first we have to bear the costs of financing and preparing this fuel platform and then it will become operational. And it's gonna start operating from 2023. This results in such a sequence of events, which is not reflected in legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u122	Thank you. [[I confess, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go, Mr. Senator. [[I'll admit I'm a little dissatisfied with this answer. How exactly is it legislatively clean or not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u123	Yes, yes, it is consulted with the Government Legislative Center, so that it is legislatively well prepared. This sequence of events is precisely due to the fact that first we need to finance the preparations before this platform starts operating in 2023 and the costs of preparation will be incurred earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u124	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u125	I will remain in line with my sentence, because these limitations, which are in 2021 and2022, are, of course, in force in those years, and the article does not enter into force until mid- 2023. How can you reduce expenditure in previous years without a proper entry into force in the mid 2023... [[It's on the bill.]] ...in an article that introduces the mother law into the legal system?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u126	Minister, you're welcome. Please respond to these doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u127	If the marshal agrees, I will cast the floor to the Vice President of the Material Reserve Agency, President Bryksa, who may explain in detail the doubts of Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u128	There you go, Mr. Vice President answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u129	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This construction of the transitional provision amending the relevant law, the law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens, can be said to be from the action plan in this particular case, including the task and the linking of this action plan with the relevant legal provisions. Recipe in this shape It will allow the Agency to bear the costs of the task taken over from the Energy Regulatory Office in 2021 and in formal and financial terms, i.e. in the years of preparation of the electronic system, which is briefly referred to as the fuel platform. These years will be devoted to the preparation of this system, which is why we are introducing rules for spending money on this task. In view of other provisions, other laws and their requirements, we also need to introduce limits on expenditure for this purpose in these years. So it can be said that we are not so limited ourselves as we are forced to properly arrange these financial expenditures, to plan them properly, and that is what is reflected here. In turn, the rules which will allow the actual life of this fuel platform, i.e. the reporting by the relevant companies by electronic means of communication, as well as the use of data from the fuel platform by both the Agency and the Energy Regulatory Office, as well as other entities that will benefit from this system, will enter into force on 1 July 2023. And that's the design that's been applied here. So that we maintain the position that, formally, legally and financially, this provision is well-designed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Hibner's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u131	Thank you very much. Can you hear me? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Minister, at the committee meeting there was information that a great deal of new tasks would already be carried out by the new unit, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. And the main tasks are to purchase services from third parties, such as stores for food reserves, medical storage facilities for medical products. and the signing of purchase contracts, e.g. Massages, external suppliers. I'd like to know. 'Cause you didn't answer that question at the committee meeting. What is the key to selecting these external service providers, these entities. Will it also be public tenders? The point is to avoid the situations we had in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u133	As far as the selection key is concerned, these will, of course, be tenders. As for the new tasks referred to in the Act, here are 2 essential tasks. First of all, these are issues related to logistics. Lessons have been learned from the pandemic. It has revealed some shortcomings in the functioning of the Agency due to the lack of appropriate legal solutions. I mean, there was no basis for the Agency to carry out material reserves tasks in the supply of products. So there were situations where the agency had a given product range and there was demand, but there were problems with organizing, financing and finding the right legal basis for transporting the products. And this is the first category of new tasks Logistic. And the second category is real estate management. It is also about improving the efficiency of the use of real estate, which is in the agency's resources. That is to say, to enable them to be used by renting or leasing in situations where they are not used to the fullest extent for storage purposes of the assortment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u134	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Hibner again? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, Senator Hibner already asked. Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] No questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As a summary for the creation of a new law, e.g. are indicated. problems with medical equipment deficiency... [[A little louder.]] ...in the pandemic period... [[Oh, that's good.]] ...COVID-19. It is difficult not to recall the scandalous situation when at the end of 2019 the Material Reserve Agency put up for sale PLN 10 per piece over 62 thousand certified masks, whose warranty date expired only at the end of 2020/2021, i.e. now and 5 000 sent to China. This was already done during the period when it was known that COVID was in control. Thus, during the first wave of pandemics, some Polish doctors were forced to complete their own protective kits, print hollows on 3D printers or buy industrial masks with P3 filters on construction departments. The Strategic Reserves Act adopted by the Sejm a few weeks ago is intended to provide more effective safeguards for the country and its citizens in the face of risks of disruption in supply and demand of certain goods and goods on the market. It assumes the transformation of the Material Reserve Agency into the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency and the transition of the system of strategic reserves under the supervision of the President of the Council of Ministers. Previously, the Minister responsible for energy was responsible for overseeing the system. The law is to regulate matters relating to the creation, maintenance, provision, exchange, conversion and liquidation of strategic reserves. In the hands of the Prime Minister will be among others. a decision on the rules for making specialised medical and technical equipment available free of charge. It should be noted that this is another area which has been subordinated to the President of the Council of Ministers. It's enough to remind you that two months ago, the Prime Minister took over some of the powers of the Ministry of Digitalization. The Act provides that the catalogue of reserves and their quantity is to be defined by the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme, which will be drawn up by the President of the Council of Ministers in cooperation with the Agency for a period of 5 years. However, the period during which it is to be updated has not been determined. Earlier this took place every year. In crisis situations where there is a threat of state security, defence, public order or public health or a natural disaster, the Agency will be able to make rapid purchases without public procurement rules. I think it's a completely unnecessary and even dangerous record. We are aware that uncontrolled and chaotic actions lead to events such as the purchase of uncertified masks, which on board the world's largest transport aircraft arrived from China to Poland. Because they did not comply with the safety rules, they were only suitable for dumpsters. It also seems reasonable to provide that bank guarantees should be obtained from the entity with which the agency enters into an agreement. That's not there. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as I am aware, it appears that the draft law has not been consulted in the light of the procedure used, and that no opinion or expert opinion has been attached to it. Unfortunately, this clearly affected the quality of the bill. It should also be assumed that the planned major changes to the Agency will be associated with long-term confusion, which is why it would be advisable to extend the date of entry into force of the Act, especially now, during the pandemic period. Poland cannot afford another chaos in such a sensitive area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Benjamin Godyla and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Wojciech Piech. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Rafał Siemianowski: If I may, Mr Marshal, I will address some of the issues raised by Senator Jazłowiecka.]] Excuse me? [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Rafał Siemianowski: If I may, I will address some of the issues raised by Senator Jazłowiecka.]] The senator didn't apply, but please. [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Rafał Siemianowski: To the issues raised... I would just like to explain very, very synthetically.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u137	As regards the transfer of supervision of the Agency to the President of the Council of Ministers, this is mainly due to the coordinating role of the President of the Council of Ministers in the government. In this way, we raise the importance of crisis management and strategic reserves, and in practice this is also linked to the fact that the President of the Council of Ministers is chairing the Government Crisis Management Team, as well as overseeing the Government Security Centre. Well, functionally such a solution is justified. As far as the issue of updating the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme is concerned, it will be available at any time, depending on the needs. And the third case. As regards the preparation of the Agency for change and the problems involved, I would like to stress that the Agency is already preparing for this. Its employees care about possible legislative changes and prepare for new tasks, so here we see no threats. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, these changes stem from pandemic experience and are part of the preparations for a possible third wave and further challenges in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u138	Thank you, sir. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. The text of the Act is contained in print No 297 and the report of the Commission In print No 297 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Janusz Błucher, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure adopted by the Sejm on 16 December 2020 on the bill on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. On 18 December 2020, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the said committees. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 4 January 2021, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. The Act introduces the possibility of acquiring municipal property for the purposes of broadly understood investment purposes with the settlement of the price of housing, residential or commercial buildings transferred to the municipality by the purchaser of real estate at the price of those properties. The localities or buildings whose price will be included in part of the price of the property will be able to be used by the municipality to carry out its tasks, e.g. as communal apartments or apartments rented to natural persons by municipal companies or companies of the State Treasury on terms of lease with access to property. It will also be possible to obtain by the municipality in this area mode, e.g. under cultural, educational, healthcare, etc. Locals or buildings covered by the investment, and not communicated to the municipality, will be managed by the investor in any way, e.g. sold or rented on a commercial basis. With this in mind, the aim of the proposed law is to reduce barriers to investment activity and increase its scale, including as one of the mechanisms to address the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and social life by extending access to real estate with investment potential to entities interested in investing in the way provided for in the Act; to support municipal authorities in carrying out their tasks, including housing policy, contributing both to increasing the availability of housing for those in need and to the availability of infrastructure affecting the quality of local community residence. The most important arrangements for the.Grunt for housing included in this Act include: the rules for the disposal of real estate from the municipal real estate stock and the settlement of the prices of real estate transferred to the municipality by the real estate buyer, including the rules for the eligibility of real estate to be sold in an open tender with the settlement of land; the procedure for the disposal of real estate and the settlement of real estate for land; the procedure for dealing with premises transferred to the municipality by the purchaser of real estate sold from the municipal real estate stock, the price of which was settled at the price of the property sold; the way in which the operation of the mechanism implemented under the proposed law was monitored. The second important solution is to enable local authorities to apply for a grant for the implementation of infrastructure projects accompanying housing, including the creation of the necessary municipal technical infrastructure or social infrastructure in the case of combining such projects with investments carried out on immovable property that are disposed of with the settlement of the premises for land or other pro-residential investments indicated by law. In addition to the amendments to the Financial Support Act, the proposed law provides for amendments to other laws supporting the achievement of these objectives. Prior to referral to inter-ministerial arrangements, public consultation and opinion between January and April 2020, the project was the subject of a pre-consultation process, i.e. meetings and exchanges of correspondence. Its assumptions have been evaluated, among others. by the Polish Association of Developers, the Union of Polish Metropolises, the National Property Resources and the Association of West-Pomeranian Tebees, and on the government side by the then Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The public consultation and opinion took place on 27 May 2020 and 17 June 2020 in the case of trade unions, and on the case of employers' organisations and the Social Dialogue Council on 27 May 2020 to June 2020. The joint Commission was given the opportunity to comment on 27 May to 17 July 2020. Under this phase of legislative work, the project was addressed to 64 stakeholders in statutory matter and to 35 stakeholders in the opinion. As part of the consultation process, the Polish Association of Developers, the Union of Polish Metropolitan and National Property Resources and the Western-Pomeranian Association of Tebees have reported comments on the social side of the project, which allowed for some changes to be made in the draft law which improved this law. In the context of the public consultation, feedback was received from 10 entities and also from 10 entities, most of which were without comments. This whole process has led to a better quality legislative act that we are debating today. The Senate Legislative Office submitted 2 detailed comments, including one proposal for an amendment, which none of the senators of the two committees finally took over as their own. Accordingly, Senator Jan Hamerski, President of the Infrastructure Commission, submitted a proposal for the adoption of a law without amendment. This proposal was finally voted and adopted by both joint committees. Earlier, during the discussion, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz spoke... I think the senator's probably gonna be asking questions today, and he's gonna take the floor in the discussion, which I know, so I'm gonna skip what was at the committee meeting. Senator Janusz Błucherz said that the bill should be supported because, as he said earlier in the discussion, among others. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, this is another law that can help local governments implement housing policy in municipalities. There are municipalities that have residential areas and do not have financial resources for the implementation of housing investments. For such municipalities, this law is an opportunity to acquire premises for land. For municipalities that do not have such land, this law will not give rise to much. The Senator expressed his concerns about the resolutions of the municipal councils necessary to carry out the sale of real estate from the municipal resources for the premises. According to the contested law, the municipality council, in addition to consenting to the sale of a particular property and indicating that property, determines in the resolution the expectations of the municipality in respect of the premises or buildings to be transferred by the purchaser of the property in exchange for part of the value of the property, in other words: the price of which is to be credited to part of the price of the property sold. These expectations shall include the minimum and maximum usable area of premises or buildings, their intended use, the minimum standard as well as the location requirements of those premises or buildings and the price per m2 of the usable area and the date on which the resources are transferred. Let's hope these expectations aren't too excessive, that's the senator's fear of dissuading potential investors from entering into the tender. He also asked representatives of the Ministry to supplement the provisions on the possibility for municipalities to apply for a grant of 10% for technical infrastructure. Most of the comments submitted during the discussion were addressed by representatives of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, explaining and interpreting many of the issues raised. President Zygmunt Frankiewicz proposed, at the end, not to further discuss the objections and comments submitted, but to carry them out, at the invitation of the Ministry of Development, with the Senators and TBS representatives concerned, as such a discussion is appropriate and useful for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit an ongoing minute of inquiry to the Senator of the rapporteur. Are there any questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Oh, Senator Benjamin Godyla. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u141	The question to the senator of the rapporteur: what if an investor who has undertaken to transfer a number of premises for land does not give them in due time? Another one. Do only residential premises have to be the subject of the investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u142	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u143	Mr. Senator, the bill provides for the possibility you're asking for. Namely, if the investor, despite the obligation to give to the municipality a certain number of premises for land, did not do so, will be obliged to pay 150% the amount of the price of the premises provided for in the contract. It's like it's a possibility, and it's a statutory security, so that it can actually be pulled off a potential investor. And the second question is: are only residential premises the subject of the investment? It turns out that they can also be utility premises, also premises intended for crèches or kindergartens, which in residential areas, if this is a larger residential area, will certainly be needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u144	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this is 150%. where the premises are not transferred, they are counted on the market price, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u145	This is the price to be fixed in the tender in accordance with the agreement that the municipality must... I mean, the municipality takes a resolution, and then the president, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor signs a deal with a potential investor, which premises and for which value will be transferred. And 150% It's from that value. And the value... [[So it's not from the market price, it's from the written one?]] Yeah, it's written... [[Exactly.]] Because here we will have to deal with an indicator, which is determined by the voivodship in the given voivodship. This indicator will guide the municipality to determine the price per square metre of the premises concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u146	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u147	Senator, one more question. Is a resolution of the municipality council on the sale of real estate necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u148	Yeah, it's legal. Without a resolution of the municipality council, this principle cannot be used. premises for land. This is the basis for this and in the decision of the municipality council must be defined in quite detail all the records that concern the sale of land for premises.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u149	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Anna Kornecka like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: No. I will limit myself to referring to possible questions if they are.]] There will be questions, there are questions, I see there are questions. If you don't mind, I'd like you to come to the podium. But if you're more comfortable answering from your seat, speak from your seat. There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. I am prepared to make an amendment, but I would like to make sure that it was as if the establishment of the ministry had been overlooked. I'm talking about art. 8. Point 1 states that the competent authority conducts the second tender within the specified time limits, which is the same as the objectives of the Act, so okay. But it's the mouth. 2 of this Article indicates that subsequent invitations to tender are being announced and not carried out, which extends the sales procedure. Was it intentional, or did you just miss it? I repeat: here is the record of the second tender, and there is a notice. There's a long way to go from the advert to the run. However, shouldn't the second point replace the word "preaching" with the word "translating"?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u151	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u152	The applicant's intention was to construct, precisely, literally, as it was written, in the first variant it is announced, and in the second it carries out. The point was not to prolong this procedure. So here... [[But it's the other way around.]] [[Minister, but it's exactly the opposite. It prolongs the procedure, which means your intention was to...]] On the contrary, first the word "pass" and then the word "speaks." [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[So your intention was to extend this procedure in these subsequent tenders?]] Yeah, yeah. [[Why?]] So that we don't bind the commune with a deadline. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u154	To be honest, I don't really understand why we shouldn't be binding the commune... Well, we know how to conduct an invitation to tender. I'm... I've been a self-government officer for 17 years. Announcement of the tender is a whole procedure that extends the sales process. You wanted to do that to complicate the sales process and extend the time? Well, if you swap it, like it's in the first point, that it does, and the next... I think it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u155	We're talking about maximum deadlines, which means if the municipality wants to do it faster, it can do it. So that here is kind of... [[But he can't do it because he has to announce.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, he's got to make a bid like that. [[But it extends the entire sales procedure by a few months.]] But we don't want it on the same ad. It's supposed to be a full procedure from the beginning. [[So, again...]] Yes. [[Repeat procedure.]] Yes. [[So it's a whole new... okay. Good. Thank you.]] Only with the condition that it is in one resolution of the commune council. So the municipality can do this all the time on the basis of a resolution of the municipality council, but it has to carry out this procedure from the beginning, once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u156	Thank you. It's clear. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For me, there are two things that are unclear, or actually three, but let's start with the most vague ones. Is Art. 8 means that the competent authority must carry out a second tender if the first has not passed, and each subsequent one? Is this how it's gonna go on and on? I ask, because here is the method used to determine: counting from the closing date of the first tender, the competent authority carries out the second tender. Well, let's say he doesn't get out first and says, "Okay, I don't want to sell here anymore, there's something wrong with this market, I don't have customers. Does he have to carry out... Is he obliged to make a second and every subsequent tender?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u158	As long as the resolution of the municipality obliging it to sell is in force, it should strive to sell. There is no obligation to fix another invitation to tender, provided that it eliminates or amends the resolution. Because it may turn out that no one will submit in the tender because the terms of this invitation to tender will be so unfavorable that there will simply be no buyer interested. Then the municipality should, in this case, verify, of course, whether it is necessary to amend or repeal the resolution of the municipality council in order to make any corrections, corrections. Yeah, he can, but he doesn't have to. As long as a resolution of the municipal council is in force, such sales must be pursued. [[I see. May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u159	Mr. Senator, ask all the questions you have... [[At once?]] ...and then we'll listen to the answers. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: Sorry.]] [[I never interrupt the Minister. It's a simple rule.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u160	So, second question. As I understand it, each subsequent tender, the second, the third, the next one, is at the same price, because the Article applies accordingly. Six, which means there's no way to lower the price. Is it possible in the decision of the municipality council to be such an authority for the executive body to somehow reduce the price and simply encourage a potential buyer? I'm gonna ask you another question right away. Why is it a restriction on the fact that these prices... Perhaps otherwise: this price which is passed on to the premises shall not be higher than the price of the property. So it doesn't pay the municipality, if it's a particularly good business for the municipality, add or add, assume, 100,000 and the business will go... because these prices haven't evened out, but of course with a higher price... Well, that's the limit. That's what I read yesterday. So that you can only sell, exchange, let's call it if the price of the premises is lower than the price of the property. So the real estate buyer always has to pay up. Maybe that's how I'm gonna say it. What's the limit? And, if you don't mind, one last question, maybe a naive question. Can the municipality thus offer land other than construction land than construction land, i.e. agricultural parcels for example? Can this property be of any character?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u161	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u162	The answer to the last question: this may be the case because the law provides that the premises may come from another property. Thus, you can make such an investment by transferring non-housing properties for other purposes than housing and receive this equivalent in apartments in a completely different location. This is, for example. in cases where the municipality needs apartments already, it cannot wait for construction, for investments. Then this effect occurs immediately. As far as the price is concerned, it's a modification... This invitation to tender is as if on the same terms, at the same price, there is no such reduction. Why? That's because we're bound by the council resolution. If we wanted to change this amount, then it would be necessary to amend the resolution of the municipality council in this respect. [[It's one last question, it's the last one or the middle one. Why must the price of the transferred premises be lower than the price of the land?]] There is no such assumption that it is necessary to pay extra. Sometimes it can just be zero, this calculation can come out like this. So that there is no such compulsive situation that it is always necessary to pay for this value. Well, she's kind of a combination, and it's up to individual conditions that often depends on the investment mix that's going to be used here in this tender.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u163	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u164	If you don't mind... Is such a situation that the price of the premises is higher than the price of the land allowed? The municipality would then have to pay some small amount to make a deal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u165	No, in this mechanism, there's no way the commune's gonna pay off. It can happen that the price of the premises will be as if it were above the value of the land, while there is no aid scheme on the part of the municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u166	Thank you. There are no more questions... [[One more thing.]] Oh, there it is. Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u167	A question for the Minister. Do you have current data... [[The Minister's office.]] ...about how the national housing program works? Are its assumptions implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u168	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u169	The question is quite broad because it concerns both the social and market segment. The "premises for land' law is a law which is part of the market share of the housing package and the national housing programme, and therefore it is a part of the "Residence +' scheme. As of today, this housing resource, which is being implemented It's either under construction or it's built, it's put into use, it's about 26,000 apartments. At the moment, at the end of 2020 this is the overall effect of all segments of the housing programme. The contested laws aim to increase the volume of these investments, definitely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u170	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u171	The question is a little more general, loosely related to this law. As for the contents of the bill, I've already been explained here. It is about housing resources which are informally administered by municipalities. The municipality acts as administrator there, i.e. He charges rents, repairs, etc., but in fact another owner is entered in the eternal book, don't give God, just before the war, and he reports... There are cases, I come from Opole, such a case in Opole was recently described in the press, appalling. The owner, who is the legal successor sometimes, as I say, the owner before the war, of course, World War II... and what does he do? He's getting his property back in court. The tenants are scared because the new owner can do anything. It's a matter of regulating the reality of the book. Not all municipalities go to court with the issue of sitting. That is to say, regulation of the facts with the state of the eternal book. Do you have any information on how much more of this kind of property, to put it directly, built up, because it pays the most to recover, has an irregular legal status? And is there anything you do in this area, in short, as a government, but when it comes to helping municipalities? Because communities should be the initiator of such processes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u172	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u173	I'll answer that right away. It is exactly as the senator at the end said: the municipalities should be the initiator of such a process. Indeed, we are dealing with a very large number of non-regulated real estate, both municipal and private property, or for example. The ones that are taken under the road. Indeed, one of the most important things is to regulate the legal status of both municipal land and those taken under roads. But the initiative is unfortunately on the side of the owner, the one who thinks he is the owner. And that also applies to the seating procedure. This is a court procedure and all possible evidence must be shown in the course of court proceedings that the property has been held. There's still procedures that they've admitted, they've been abusing... e.g. rules on the communalisation of property, e.g. Article 2 73. 1 Act introducing public administration reform. It was a provision that said that by law ownership of land occupied under public roads was transferred to the competent local government unit or State Treasury. But this procedure included proceedings before the voivodship, which had just established the acquisition by law of such land. There are a lot of municipalities that have simply not done so at all. And unfortunately, this cannot be done without the initiative of the municipality on this issue. As far as these details are concerned, we will, of course, try to provide such an answer in writing. Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u174	Thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u175	For the last time in this case, this is an important and socially shocking matter. The question is: could we, as a parliament or a state as a government, not initiate a legislative act which, like those roads, will deal with this matter in a general and abstract manner? It's been decades since the war, and these things are really going on. Every once in a while, it's... Well, there are different municipalities, there are different municipalities, sometimes it can be so that a given municipality e.g. does not want some ownership issues to be sorted out. From the point of view of the tenants who occupy these municipal resources, the best would be the state of stability, i.e. that the building with the real estate is simply transferred to the property of the municipality, because after a period of 80 years the sitting is already kind of realized.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u176	I think that this regulation exists, that's the sitting, that's exactly the regulation. And the period from which the passing of years counts is a system transformation. It is 2021, so it could actually be said that we are at the threshold of these 30 years, and from that point on it can be said that this regulation is, only requires initiative and going to court. But at this point, we already have You can count it. 30 years of this unbroken property, in this case the municipality, so it would be possible to sit. It's hard to say here, without violating the ownership rights of different entities... The sitting is such a regulation and here the passing of time works in our favor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u177	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... Oh, there it is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There was nothing...]] Okay, there were no signals before... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a little bit longer, huh? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The very idea of the "place for land" programme has a proper direction, since any tool which increases the competence of the local government is desirable, but its effectiveness is very questionable in the case of this law. I'm saying this because of my 17-year experience in local government. The whole tendering procedure is not very different from the one currently in force. The investor, as so far, will have to enter into an unlimited public tender. The difference that benefits the developer is to be the possibility to settle part of the payment at a later date, in kind rather than in monetary form. Such a solution will bind both parties to the agreement of the investor and the local government. It is worth noting that the value of real estate for residential investments represents 5 value of the entire investment depending on the city or municipality. With the investor's credit standing It is rather expected that the contract will be concluded for late payments, e.g. per 10% financing may not be an incentive enough. With the solution proposed by the Act, the local government will not be able to raise the entire amount from the sale of the property and will not be able to allocate it to the purposes included in the financial plan, even for investments in municipal housing. Although the developer will have a deferred payment deadline for the property, the transfer to the municipality of apartments is a form of payment, but it will be at the prices resulting from the restoration value established by the voivodship. So at the time of the agreement with the municipality, it's going to be an unknown price. It is very likely that the price resulting from the table, the price which will result from the valuation or the amount determined by the voivode, will be much lower than the market value of the apartment on the commercial market. Thus, the developer will treat this tool as a different way of borrowing a loan. Yes? This will be another way of financing the investments he will want to make. The question can therefore be asked whether the developers will want to go into the unknown and unpredictable instead of paying the entire amount for the land resulting from the tender for the loan drawn up in the bank and repay it after selling the apartment at market price. It's more predictable and more financially beneficial. It is hard to assume that for the developer an amount of 5 the value of the investment may be a problem with borrowing. Such a developer without a credit rating is inherently unbelievable. It is highly unlikely that this tool will contribute to the development of social and public housing in municipalities. This is a form of public-private partnership, but not convincing to both sides. The National Housing Programme adopted in 2016 turned out to be a huge disaster. I don't know how you got that information. Is it true, Minister, that this is confirmed information that 26,000 apartments have been handed over? I'd ask you to verify that. Are they under construction? 'Cause I don't think those numbers are 26 grand. I'm talking about devoted apartments. In recent years, nearly 40% growth has been achieved in development and individual construction investments. This is due to a number of reasons, such as global and national economic development, investment in funds and savings in fixed assets, such as housing and housing, resulting in an increase in the supply of housing for rent and thus a decrease in their prices. This is also due to the fact that due to Brexit many Poles working abroad decided to place their savings in real estate. Of course, housing is very desirable for the less affluent, but housing prices and rentals are regulated by the market. It's the market that regulates housing prices. If the price was to be lower than the market price, someone had to cover that difference. Who? This can be done either by the local government, which, however, has limited opportunities in this respect, or by the State, through its support programmes. In this case, however, the government shifts the entire burden of this programme to the local government. Undoubtedly, the best and most effective programs so far have been living for young people and family on their own. It was a real, real help to families with less income and less credit. The greatest advantage of this programme is the possibility for the local government to obtain funding from central funds for the purpose of arming the land for such a housing investment. However, the criteria for receiving such support are unclear. The funds from the Self-Government Road Fund shall be distributed discretionaryly and the illusory criteria. Is it going to be the same here, or is it possible to share these funds in another way? Should the local government, when organising a tender, maybe, or should it, under the terms of the tender, enter a declaration of a specific, well-defined weapon of the land in question, without having a guarantee of obtaining funds? It's a risk to self-government. The failure to enter such a provision into the terms of the tender, and the municipality's arming of the land, perverts the reliability of the valuation of the property. The successful tenderer should have clearly defined rules for the purchase of a particular property taking into account its armament at a given time or planned by the municipality. I tried quickly to take as little time as possible, to write all my doubts, but I'll try to explain it once more in my simple language. Minister, as a self-government officer with a 17-year internship, I believe that the objective is the right one, and of course I will not vote against this law. Either I abstain or I vote in favour, I'll think about it. But I have serious doubts whether she will ever meet any expectations. I will repeat what I said: this is another form of crediting a given investment, because it is whether it will be a bank loan or it will be an apartment that will be transferred as part of the settlement. So I don't see much incentive for developers to enter into this form of bonding with the municipality. I have big, serious doubts about this, all the more so that the price of the apartment will be calculated according to the replacement value. E.g. the restoration value in Warsaw is PLN 7 000 200 per square meter This is the information I've been able to retrieve. The cost of building such an apartment is PLN 7,000 900 per square metre. So where's the developer's business here, instead of paying cash for the property, he wanted to account for the apartment, since the price of the square meter of this apartment is unknown? What kind of business does a developer have to make this deal? What business will the local government have to sell in this form of apartment, if it is better to sell the property for cash, the developer will buy it, build the apartments, sell it, and eventually the municipality will buy these apartments for money? I don't really see the profit here. If you could explain this to me, I'd be very grateful. So, as I emphasized, the biggest advantage of this is that the municipality will be able to apply for funding from money, some money. Let me repeat: is the municipality supposed to record in the tender that this area will be armed? After all, the price of armed land and unarmed land is completely different. So do I put it in the tender? And if the municipality writes down a commitment to arm the area in the tender, what guarantee will it have that it will obtain external money to build infrastructure? She won't have any guarantees. Therefore, the municipality will have to take the risk by constructing such a tender and writing down whether it is committed to its weapons or not. This law therefore raises a lot of doubts. The intentions are right. I will repeat: I will not vote against this law. But as far as the effectiveness of the bill is concerned, I think it's more about propaganda than real, because I don't believe that the local governments are going to go for it. Maybe. I'm almost done. The local authorities that have oversupply of land will decide, but according to my knowledge, my city and many cities, which are confirmed by the mayors, the presidents I have talked to, have no oversupply of land, so they themselves have a problem finding the land on which housing would develop. This may work in smaller municipalities, but in smaller municipalities the price of land is very low. Whether, therefore, it would be worth the skin of the excavator at all, since the value of the land would be 5% the value of the entire investment? What's the point of doing this whole procedure? The developer better buy it and build the apartments. Once again, I will not vote against the bill, but I have serious doubts as to whether it will have any effect. I doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u179	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal, is it your birthday today? [[Excuse me?]] Is it your birthday today? [[Never mind. Don't take care of me. There you go.]] Happy birthday. [[Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, much in this talk about clearing house prices in the case of buildings and properties disposed of from another resource is a theory. Senator Czerwiński said that some local governments pretend and do not want to organize ownership or spatial plans. That's not true. I've been president for 12 years. For me and for other self-governments, and here is President Kalisz Janusz Pęcherz, is also Vadim, the most advantageous situation would be 100% Isn't that right? And organized cases of all real estate. But you can't do that. For me, the biggest problem with Thursday meetings every week was that on 10, 12, 15 cases prepared for me by officials 90% They were housing problems. Yes, gentlemen? Every year there were about 300, 330, 280 housing problems. The apartments were being built, the apartments were being recovered from military structures, because, as you know, Kolobrzeg was a garrison city and a lot of resources after the political and social transformation We didn't get it, and we bought it, of course, with a bonus. We made social housing, communal housing, and built a lot, with the help of a national bank, of course. And I was thinking, oh, one year, two year, three year building, giving... We don't give, I'm sorry, we pass. People think when they get an apartment from the government, they deserve it, like a dog's shit. No, not really, it's not like that. They didn't care about these apartments, and sometimes there were situations where the apartments burned down, and we rebuilt them. I remember a friend of mine from elementary school who, unfortunately, got the wrong way, got the apartment, I didn't even know it, and it burned down. She came to me and said, "Mr. President, will I get this apartment?" And I say, "Why do you get it?" I didn't recognize her, she changed that way. And she said, "Well, I lived there and it burned. I say, "How did it burn?" I remember we spent 27 grand on this apartment. So... : No, no, we all built it, you go to the barracks. In Kolobrzeg there are 2, 3 barracks, they must be for those who cannot respect what we give as a whole society. Like I said, in the last four years of my presidency, every year I gave up the building, 44 apartments, together almost 180 new apartments. I'm not talking about the ones recovered, secondhand. It was my joy, my joy, that someone gets an apartment, because not everyone can afford to build an apartment to buy it. There is another form that we could use very much, so-called. rent. But people prefer to wait for them to get and pay much less money, and benefit from the benefits that the local government gives them. Because apart from the fact that the state is obliged to secure what is very important, it is also the local government; apart from the fact that a family will be created, it is also necessary to create the right conditions. But how many times have I experienced such bitterness that these apartments, built for our common money, were passed on and destroyed. People came to me and said, "Well, yeah, but it's ruined and we're asking for a new apartment. Talking about the developer building, for example in Kołobrzeg, together with the local government... This isn't gonna work for tonight. Why? 'Cause this joint thing is, like somebody said, PPP and another P or CBA, something like that. We're all afraid of it, and locals, and developers. How many times has it been that I've come across a person on the list who came to me and said she's expecting an apartment because she's got two, three kids? And at that moment I almost cried out of my soft heart: oh, my God, how can I help you? How many times have I helped in my life? 'Cause I'm from a very poor family, too. And what happened? I ask: how many years are you in Kolobrzeg? So we're 3, 4 years old, because this is what the uncle told us: you know, go to Kolobrzeg, live there in some apartment, get on the list and get this apartment. What does that mean? Well, unfortunately, these bagel communities are hoping that the city will build and give people social or communal housing, give social assistance, give other help. And those around you are... I'm not saying it's malice, because these communities don't have the financial capacity to support people. Therefore, the government should think about developing all possibilities for disposal, use of these funds, so that richer municipalities have a better chance of entering the so-called. Buffalo areas. The point is that it is possible, together with other municipalities, to build. Because, as Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz said, when it comes to New Salt or Kolobrzeg, we no longer have these areas. Of course, someone would say... If someone looked at this structure 20, 25 or 30 years ago, they would see that we had powerful hectares. But you had to sell them on commercial terms to build apartments for those who needed them, so-called. municipal housing. That's why I think that's a pretty good direction. This program, which was shown at a certain point, i.e., the living +-- did not work out with us because it was absolutely uneconomical. My place in Kołobrzeg has been operating for over 20 years... There used to be TBS, now there's KTBs, the Kołobrzeg Society for Social Construction. There is a very good president, whom I recommend for all conversations and discussions about what to do with housing. I've already handed over this information and the name of this president. The knowledge of these people needs to be exploited, because dialogue offers many opportunities, dialogue can help solve these problems. And the housing problems... Everyone knows what it's like. It's cold today. What's the most important thing? Home heat. Well, the most important thing for us are children, and we have to remember that. I'm going to support this bill, but we need to move on. Think about it so it's not just written on paper. There are possibilities out there, but there are no more areas we can use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u181	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Mariusz Gromko, Senator Eve Gawada, Senator Benjamin Godyla and Senator Janusz Błucherz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz... [[Voice from the room: Did he fold?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] No conclusions? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u182	Mr. Marshal, I'll explain. If that was the ministry's intention, then I'm backing out. I thought maybe she was different.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u183	Okay, I'll delete it. The discussion is closed. Since there are no legislative proposals, I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[That's the question... because the Minister made a commitment.]] Yeah, I read it all. The Minister has undertaken to answer Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u184	Meeting of the National Economy Committee... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear...]] The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, as well as the Act on Strategic Reserves will take place tomorrow at 9.00 in room 217. And the second message. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of the requests submitted at the 20th Senate meeting to the Budget Law for 2021 will be held tomorrow at 9 a.m. also in room 176/179.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-11-senat-20-1.u185	I'm declaring a recess until 11:00 p.m. the next day. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 15]]
