ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. On the other hand, the senators taking part in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting only to establish a list of senators currently taking part in the meeting. Once the apparatus has been turned on, I'd like to ask you to cast any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 64 Senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 7]] This figure is likely to increase. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that today we will resume our deliberations from the examination of paragraph seven: the second reading of the bill on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation of human and citizen freedoms and rights during the epidemic in relation to SARS-CoV-2 infections. At this point, I would like to welcome quite a number of closed sector representatives. You will be able to observe the proceedings. We will then consider item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the threat of media freedom in Poland. After that, we will proceed with the examination of paragraph 18: the second reading of the draft resolution on the subject of sending Aleksey Navalny to the banquet and the brutal suppression of the democratic opposition demonstration by the Russian Federation authorities. At the end of today's session, a round of votes will be held on all still unvoted points. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the compensation of property losses resulting from the restriction of freedom and human rights and of the citizen during the outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 infection. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 307 and the committee's report In print No 307 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like on behalf of the joint committees The Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Legislative Affairs, present a report on the draft law on the compensation of property losses resulting from the restriction of human and citizen freedoms and rights during the epidemic in connection with SARS-CoV-2 virus infection contained in print No 307. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the joint committees on 11 January. The committees at their joint meeting on 29 January considered the draft law presented by the applicants at first reading, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt the single attached draft. I would like to point out that the work on this project at a joint meeting, but also earlier, was exceptional work, because it aroused great interest and innumerable different proposals and opinions that had affected the committee. Here I would also like to thank representatives of sectors such as fitness, including gyms such as trade fairs, representation of hotels, artistic and entertainment events such as event industry, business tourism, wedding industry, congress, conferences and many others. We must remember that the project we have prepared in the Senate is a law that will turn everyone on, I emphasize, all who have not actually received this aid or received it yet, but far insufficient in relation to real needs, for example. they were unlucky and entered not this PKD as leading in the context of the possibility of receiving aid, or had other bad luck, such that they opened the company later, after a period which was formally taken into account for calculating the financial support. What are we going to do about the bill that I have the honour of presenting to you? And it's very important to me that I do it in the presence of those for whom these regulations are so important And thank you also for the great interest that I have seen today, even in social media, through the coverage of this meeting. Thank you. For us senators, it is important that every voice that we speak in this debate will be listened to by you very carefully. So what's the problem with this bill? The ongoing epidemic bears all the so-called signs. natural disaster, because this is a qualified epidemic emergency state. He has a negative impact on the functioning of the state in all its aspects. In practice, since mid-March the Polish economy, like the economies of other countries affected by the pandemic, has experienced a negative supply-demand shock on the unseen scale so far. And behind these macroeconomic concepts, they hide. As highlighted by the joint committees in the course of a number of votes at the meeting, The dramas of the people who sit in this room and tens of thousands of those you represent. We're aware of that. and this was underlined in the course of the discussion at the joint meeting of the committee What this means from your point of view, which means supply-demand shock. For you, this means a company that has been shut down for months. Or closed completely, which happened e.g. gyms, for many months hotels or event industry, or with radically limited business opportunities, as in the case of Polish restaurants, because a fraction of their business is the ability to sell to go. We have to remember. And basically that's where I'm supposed to start. From the most basic things. Art. 232 of the Constitution states that, in such emergency situations, the Council of Ministers can, of course, introduce certain restrictions, e.g. in doing business, but note: it can only do so on the basis of the rules that govern it. In this particular case, These are the provisions of the 2002 Emergency Status Act. The Council of Ministers did not use them, did not apply this solution. Today we already have more than 20 judgments of the voivodship administrative courts and all these courts are taking the same decisions, namely to repeal the penalties imposed on economic operators, saying: the Polish State did not have a sufficient legal basis, did not benefit from the correct basis or, to put it colloquial, illegally, since it was without the legal basis And if the State makes such decisions, it is the State's responsibility to make damages. The prospect that tens of thousands of cases are about to go to court is a bad perspective from your point of view. This will force you to comply with the long-term procedure, and help for you is needed here and now. From the point of view of citizens who see that you cannot be trusted with a country that is not legally able to regulate relations on the state line A citizen only leads to court proceedings to settle this issue... That is why we have proposed a bill on the compensation of property damages, which is to be settled. In the draft law, we propose solutions to ensure that any economic operator who has suffered material damage following orders or prohibitions on economic activity in connection with the declaration of an epidemic or epidemic risk is entitled to a compensation claim from the State Treasury of 70% the property damage suffered less the equivalent of the non-refundable aid granted to the trader on the basis of the rules adopted in connection with the spread of the virus. This is about another so-called. financial shields. I would like to stress very strongly that this bill that we are proposing is a kind of settlement. And you, our guests today, have accepted it. between the state and the citizen. The state as those who have closed down the possibility of doing business, you say: yes, we agree, we do not apply for all the property damage we have suffered, and we agree to 70% To avoid trials between us and the state. And the state says this: we're not paying you all the damage, we're paying you 70%. less the help you've received, and we're doing it through a clear, clear, fast, transparent procedure. The quick procedure here is perhaps one of the basic arguments. One of the main elements of the joint committee's work was a detailed examination of Professor Nowak-Fara's opinion, which stated unambiguously: this law does not require notification of the European Union, this law will allow the start of payment of compensation after its actual adoption. And that's another advantage of it. The bill sets out the basis, scope and mode of compensation for property damage. The compensation shall be granted at the written request of the injured party, submitted to the competent voivode. The governor will issue a decision on the award of compensation and the victim who is dissatisfied with that decision will be able to bring an action before the General Court within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision. The claim for damages will be valid within one year of the date on which the victim was informed of the material damage, but in any event within three years of the date of the cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic threat. You won't be charging for a lawsuit. The entry into force of the proposed law will result in the creation of a legal instrument to be used by injured entrepreneurs who have suffered material damage as a result of reduced economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, we have wondered whether the scope of this financial assistance is the scope of financial assistance to be borne from the point of view of the State. It's always a dilemma. In the course of the committee's work, of course, we asked for appropriate opinions and these opinions were available to each of the members of the joint committees. These were the opinions of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Ombudsman, the Council of Enterprise, the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises, the Minister for Development, Labour and Technology, the Supreme Administrative Court, Employers of the Republic of Poland, the Minister of Finance and the Central Statistical Office. You were able to get acquainted with all these opinions. As is the case with such important and wide projects, of course these opinions differ. There are opinions that absolutely, you could even say, zero-only support this project, such as. the opinion of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, who stresses that this law does not affect the interests of entrepreneurs and even supports them in this situation or business organisations, and is, of course, skeptical, as in particular the opinions of government representatives, in the context of the financial aspect. And this financial aspect was also highlighted by the committees in the course of their work. Ladies and gentlemen, please take into account the following fact in the decision to support this law. To such a general question, how much this bill will cost, I always answer with full conviction: less than if it is not there. 'Cause if you're gonna force your people to sue you, you're gonna sue not about it. 70% , and by 100% damage. And the state will additionally pay the court costs. That's why I'm sure it'll be cheaper. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to one more very important issue. The second opinion we took into account in our work and which each senator could learn is the opinion of Professor Piotr Krajewski. This is the manager. Departments of Macroeconomics at the University of Lodz. What's that opinion about? About the extent of public support in Poland compared to data from other major European economies. Of course, we are eligible for the largest countries of the European Union. We have compared 4 here to the key economies for Europe: the 3 largest of Western Europe - the German, French and UK economy and the largest economy in Central and Eastern Europe, i.e. the Polish economy. And, ladies and gentlemen, what can we read in this opinion? From this opinion we can learn in detail what is the scope of assistance in Poland in relation to assistance in other countries. I'll recall three brief passages from this opinion. If we compare the total amount of public support in response to the pandemic in these countries, we will see that the total level of fiscal packages, including public spending, guarantees, loans and capital support for companies and tax reductions as a result of the tax arrangements introduced in the countries analysed, is as follows: Poland - 76 billion dollars, Germany - 1 trillion 472 billion dollars, Great Britain - 877 billion dollars, France - 603 billion dollars. So, against the background of Europe's largest economies, fiscal support in response to the pandemic in Poland looks euphemistically It's modest. It is more than 19 times lower than in Germany, 11 times lower than in the UK and almost 8 times lower than in France. One of you might have noticed. And this argument, of course, must also be taken into account. It is most appropriate, from a methodological point of view, to compare the development of public support in response to the pandemic, not in billions of dollars, but in relation to GDP. And the answer to that is found in this opinion. The reference of public support to the country's GDP level, taking into account differences in country size, population and economic level, the level of GDP per capita is... If we take into account these differences and the development of the sum of the public support costs incurred and planned in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in relation to GDP in each country, these figures are as follows: Poland's 13.1% support GDP, Germany support of 38,9% GDP, UK support of 32,4% GDP, France 23.5% support GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that the government is not helping, because there were financial shields, but these figures show zero-only that the aid was too small in relation to needs. And our responsibility as Senate is to correct this mistake. It is also because we are about to have money from the Fund for Reconstruction and Development if, of course, the government manages to agree on this internally in the political procedure. Of course, I'm worried about whether the government will approve. But this is not the subject of today's discussion. However, if this money is used, the Senate Act will be the most correct tool to support entrepreneurs, because it will be clear, legible, non-recognizable, transparent and fast, and it will not be able to be challenged by any institution to control the correctness of the spending of this money. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to ask you to accept and persuade you to accept and support this bill. I have no doubt that in this almost one and a half years of parliamentary work this term is one of the most important proposed laws, if not the most important. The world and Poland have changed before our eyes, we are all trying to deal with the consequences of the pandemic of Coronavirus. This draft law deals with these consequences of extremely painful, because they relate to the economic sphere, and represents a good answer to the main challenges. Thank you for this opinion of those affected by this project, thank you for your presence. I am deeply convinced that the Senate And I say this also on the basis of the outcome of the vote at the joint committee meeting, where the draft was supported by a large majority of votes, and the votes of the senators from all clubs and circles, although of course they were also against... I recommend that the Senate adopt this bill, and I ask for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm gonna ask Senator Szejnfeld to have a roundabout conversation. If you don't mind... At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Kwiatkowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Mr. Senator! In the draft law the title has been changed, now it is more extensive, but the fundamental change is the transition from property losses to property damage. This loss is a legal concept and covers both losses and non-profitable benefits. Let's say he's an average businessman, let's say he owns a restaurant. Please indicate what damage the restaurant owner suffered as a result of the State's action, the losses and the lost benefits. I ask that they be indicated in a generic way, so that we know what types of damage we are talking about and how it can then be presented in the form of cash. Once again: losses, undesired benefits, i.e. damage suffered by the restaurant owner e.g. as a result of the introduction of restrictions by the State.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, loss of assets Of course, here we use legal definitions and case law, each of these concepts is already shaped... The loss of property is that Here, I will refer to the example of the entrepreneur. That the trader must bear the costs, even though he cannot carry on his business. These are e.g. costs related to the rental of the premises that the trader has and cannot use e.g. for customer service in the context of restaurant management, or costs related to staff remuneration, e.g. Coachs in gyms and fitness clubs who want to work with customers, and they can't because the state shut them down. These are the costs associated with paying leasing payments for the coach to which the shipping company had previously carried tourists on foreign trips, and now it cannot do so due to earlier restrictions on mixing and the overall situation. Property damage is defined in the Civil Code, it includes not only loss, but also lost benefits. This is the consequence of the decision taken by the State to close or limit the business of the trader. On the basis of a well-educated trial line, I will stress this once again. The administrative courts say, most delicately and euphemistically, that the State did so without the legal basis which is required in this case; therefore, I will no longer use the colloquial concept illegally, since this means that it was done without a sufficient legal basis. This also includes lost benefits. In practice, we speak e.g. on the comparison of the revenues of the closed restaurant from the time of the year before and revenues from the period in question. Let me stress once again: the bill says, of course, not 100% coverage property damage within the meaning of the Civil Code, only 70%. The OSR you have says that the amount of compensation for the property damage suffered by the companies may amount to about PLN 40 billion, but it is an amount without reducing the value of the State aid granted. And as the government often emphasizes, this public aid was very broad in scope, the government did what it could in this situation, so after deduction of the aid that the government has already committed, it will be significantly smaller measures.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u6	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, as far as this project is concerned, during the consultation, a number of institutions referred to this project. The government side referred to him. The Enterprise Council also referred to the government's anti-crisis measures and identified the positive aspects of the instruments implemented. However, the draft was also referred to by the Supreme Administrative Court, which expressed its opinion that the adoption of the draft is Parliament's responsibility, but the justification of the draft does not contain any reference to the financial consequences of the implementation of the law, which the NSA considers to be an infringement of the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. The obligation expressed in this provision is particularly important in this case because the project assumes the payment of compensation from the State budget. The Supreme Administrative Court also pointed to the problem of limitation of claims and the absence of transitional provisions. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? How will you respond to the opinion expressed by the Supreme Administrative Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the two things that the administrative court pointed out were taken into account in the course of the work. As I said, we already have an OSR with financial implications and we have also taken into account the formal comments presented in the general design of the presented project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u9	Thank you very much. The question is remotely asked by Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course I support this bill, but I get questions from entrepreneurs. My question One of many, but perhaps there will already be an answer. This is the case: whether the aid will be used by companies that have started their business or have been transformed into a different legal personality, e.g. from a public partnership in a partnership with O.O. Doesn't the joint stock company have that story, even though there's continuity of work? Will these companies benefit from this aid too?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u11	The aid is not conditioned by the legal personality of the activity, but by whether or not the company has suffered damage. So, yeah, they're gonna use it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u12	Thank you very much. No further questions... [[They're here, ……]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u13	Mr. Marshal, I'm not visible, indeed. Senator Kwiatkowski overshadowed me. [[You hid behind Senator Kwiatkowski.]] Yeah, that's life. But now I'm serious. Mr. Senator, I'll go over the damage and damage. We're talking about this in public, and I'm sure a lot of people are watching us. The authors have gone from the concept of loss, narrower meaning, to the concept of damage, i.e. loss plus lost benefits, to the printing that we are considering. Well, if this printing didn't come into force, it didn't become a law, then you could use the general rules that are contained in the Civil Code. By the way, you can use them at all, because they won't turn off one another. In the Civil Code in Article. 4171 §1 says this: if the damage was caused by the adoption of a normative act, and about this here, I understand, we are talking, because the basis is the activity of the State It may be required to be rectified once the non-compliance of that act with the Constitution, ratified by an agreement or by a law, has been established in appropriate proceedings. So there is a step that needs to be taken first in order to use general rules that are less favourable to the entrepreneur, according to you. That's the first line. But there's another one. That is, you have often raised Before, not now. In order for this state, which we are currently in the pandemic state, to be governed by one of the emergency laws, namely the act on natural disasters and the related law on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation of the state of extraordinary freedom and human rights and of the citizen. And here in the article. 2 (2) 2 we read: the compensation that may be granted, which may be sought by the trader It covers the compensation of the loss of property, without any advantage. So it's not damage, it's property loss. And then, without the benefits that the victim could have achieved if the loss had not arisen. The question is this: since in the law that regulates states or in the law resulting from the regulation of states much more, I would call it, interfering not only in business, but in the life of man at all, extraordinary states, there is a limitation only to losses, and you want to... [[Mr. Senator, one minute.]] ...to cover the full damage... [[One minute to question.]] ...that includes the lost benefits... Is that supposed to be only 70%? He's right here, I'd call it, isn't he? Do you want more or less? Oh, that's the simplest question. That's two questions. The issue of the civil code and first of all the preliminary judgment of the court... excuse me, the Constitutional Tribunal in this case, and the question of what you want to give entrepreneurs in both projects, that is, the concept of loss and the concept of damage.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u14	Mr. Senator, it's not more or less, it's exactly 70%. property damage, as described in the bill. And, like I said, when it comes to the definition of property damage, we use the definition of civil code. Yes, earlier was the concept of property loss, which includes a different range of calculations. Whether a citizen or a business person can claim such compensation from the Treasury on general principles... Maybe. But now I'm going to talk about a particularly embarrassing matter for the government. I do not know whether you know that the President of the Council of Ministers has asked the current Court to assess the rules in the context of the State Treasury's liability. I have no doubt that the intention of this proposal is to establish the unconstitutionality of the State Treasury's liability rules. It is all the more important to adopt this law. The point is to give a clear signal that we do not agree to the political scenarios in which the government takes decisions so deeply interfering with citizens' rights and freedoms While we are also dealing with the right to conduct business, freedom to do so And then, despite such far-reaching decisions, in colloquial terms, he washes his hands from the consequences of these decisions. It is all the more important that we adopt this project as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u15	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Dowhan again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u16	I know it doesn't matter whether the business is carried out by a natural person or by a public company, a limited partnership or any other company. The question is whether it is possible to determine, at least approximately, how entrepreneurs will be able to claim compensation. Is this determined on the basis of a decrease in turnover, a lack of turnover, losses incurred in paying all danins, tax-related costs, rental costs of premises? Is there a pattern for this return, this compensation? I'm asking about the pattern of the procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u17	The schematic is defined. We used the basic law, which is the Emergency Status Act, and the compensation procedure that is written there. The entrepreneur makes the application and directs it to the competent voivode and the voivode carries out the verification and can then agree with the claim contained in the application, of course reduced by 30% in relation to the property damage. If the voivode accepts the application, it closes the procedure. If it does not accept, it does not agree with the scope of the proposal, the trader has the opportunity to go to court. The conclusion on the summary of this injury is, of course, presented by the trader himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u18	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I have the following question: is the total amount that the Polish State has already allocated to support entrepreneurs within the framework of all the shields known? You hear about different numbers, there are also estimates per capita, but I mean the total amount that has been spent so far on all these benefits, on those forms of aid that have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u20	Mr. Senator, we were just talking about this a little bit earlier, and I've already served these sums. Well, let me tell you one more thing. Well, compared to that... I will always stress that, of course, it would be a deep dishonesty if we talked about absolute numbers and compared us to richer countries. I think that's the most important thing, Senator. We must stress that the scope of public support in response to the pandemic is not measured in billions of dollars. Although, of course, I am able to quote these amounts, I have already presented them. But in relation to GDP. It is necessary to identify public support in the countries concerned, taking into account both the differences in the size of these countries and the population and the differences in the level of economic development, i.e. GDP per capita. Poland is in a group of several of the largest European countries. We made such a comparison and received the opinion of Prof. Krajewski. In Poland this aid is established at the level of approx. 13% GDP, in Germany ca. 39% GDP, UK More than 32% GDP and in France 23.5% GDP.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u21	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question. Mr Senator, but please note that in your extensive report, the rapporteur has already presented a great deal of data. What we just heard was a repetition of that performance. Such questions make us waste our time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the following question now. What is the government's position on these proposals? Has it evolved? What is the position of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, who has also taken a position on this matter? What arguments are in favour of this... I'm sure the senator was talking about it, and unfortunately I was on my way because of some problems, so I apologize if I could repeat the question that has already been discussed here. What could possibly be the difference between the situation in which these solutions will be adopted in the proposed law on the protection of the interests of the State over the next few years, and the situation in which this law is not adopted will leave the matter to its running, as it were, on a case-by-case basis, i.e. those judicial decisions and those collective actions which are already beginning to appear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u23	Before I ask the senator for an answer, I'd like you to skip the question of government position, because we're here with the Undersecretary of State, Mr. Mark Niebóżak, who is authorized to represent the government. Then it would be unreasonable if you spoke on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your questions and for your attention, Marshal. I noticed that the Minister, at least at the committee meeting, signaled such a position that he could represent the opinion of the Ministry, not the entire government. As regards the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, he stated in his opinion that the proposed law would not affect the interests of entrepreneurs, the principles of their functioning. This is the most important part. It draws attention to some specific solutions that may have some practical problems in terms of their application. We took them into large part by changing them, for example. rules for the payment of funds, i.e. for whom and to what extent they are dedicated. As for the scenarios in connection with the adoption or non-adoption of the bill... Now I will present my opinion not only as a senator, head of the Senate Legislative Commission, but also as a former Minister of Justice. I believe that we are facing a very big problem for the Polish state if this law is not adopted. We propose a form of settlement between entrepreneurs and the state. Today's businessman... Everyone already knows that, and they know that, at the level of first-instance decisions, there is a uniform case law of the administrative courts. They, these decisions, all say the same thing, whether in the case of a hairdresser from Lower Silesia, it was the first sentence of the voivodship administrative court or in subsequent cases in the voivodship administrative courts. All these courts repeal the penalties imposed on economic operators in breach of the so-called "law." restrictions arising from different covid rules, thus stressing one thing: the government acts without a sufficient legal basis. Every lawyer will say that if the government acted without a legal basis, it gives rise to the liability of the State Treasury. Please note what the signal is. We send a signal to hundreds of thousands of people because people themselves are on the so-called. self-employment is 1 million 300 thousand. A signal such that wherever they are affected by the limitation of their business activity, they have the right to make a claim against the Treasury. More, they today, on the basis of these decisions of administrative courts, will have the absolute conviction that they have a chance to win these cases. What does that mean in practice? We can expect a flood of cases in Polish courts. I no longer want to talk about the fact that the functioning of the justice system in Poland in the last few years in each category of general civil, criminal cases, but here we are talking about economic, means a delay in relation to what was in previous years, in the sense of waiting for the citizen to settle the case in court. And I don't want to get the impression that the government is aware that there is a high probability that these cases will be lost, but it is with the intention that these decisions may last for years, and it removes this problem on the basis that it will no longer be our problem, because a large part of these decisions can be announced after the next parliamentary elections. That's not how the responsible authority works. You can't cheat a citizen. There shouldn't be a situation where the government's taking away problems because it's hoping that someone else will have to solve these problems. We're proposing a formula from which to... I have no doubt after talking to representatives of closed industries, thank you for these dozens of hours of joint meetings and consultations, that the vast majority of businessmen will benefit from this formula. He won't get 100%. , only 70% but in the faster procedure described in the Act. I'm summing up. Failure to adopt this law will destroy the citizen's confidence in a country that may give rise to such an impression. - He doesn't want to solve this problem. The bill's design rebuilds this trust. Because if you make decisions that interfere so deeply with civil rights and freedoms The right to conduct a business is also a civil right. This should be responsible. If the State takes such decisions, it should also bear financial responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u25	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you were referring, among other things. on issues relating to the position of the government. The Minister of Development pointed out that the planned procedure for granting compensation was questionable by decision with the adoption of the concept of temporary inadmissibility of the judicial route. The opinion also states that a model allowing the case to be referred to the court only to the injured party can be seen as significantly limiting the equality of the parties in civil proceedings and as affecting the interests of the State Treasury. I would like to ask if this was mentioned at the committee meeting. As many legal issues have been raised in the draft, I would like to ask why, through consultation, as regards the government side... I see you have addressed the Minister of Development, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Family. Why hasn't the Minister of Justice also been asked to give an opinion on the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u27	Senator, in accordance with the standard procedure, we have addressed those departments which are directly responsible for economic affairs. The issues you have been asking were also, to some extent, the subject of work and discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u28	Thank you very much. The question is asked again by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I know that this question may be addressed to the representative of the government, but I would like to ask for the opinion of Senator Kwiatkowski, because after questions to the representative of the government, I will no longer be able to ask the senator. My question is as follows. How do you interpret the application to the Constitutional Court in September to state that, in a situation where the regulation was issued unlawfully, the effects of this regulation do not burden the Treasury? I'm simplifying it, but that's the point of the proposal. Isn't that a confirmation of your thesis that the government is also aware that this legal basis raises serious doubts? I'd like your opinion on this. It seems that this has been discussed a little bit in committee, so it will also be a reference to the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u30	Mr. Senator, in a normal situation, I would say that this proposal should be meaningless. Every lawyer will say that if public administrations make such far-reaching decisions, then of course the Treasury is responsible for the financial consequences of these decisions. But the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska breaks all the existing standards concerning the case-law line, the understanding of the law in certain aspects or the interpretation and interpretation of its application. And that is why I am very concerned that the proposal to the Constitutional Tribunal... that a possible decision may extend our intellectual horizons to spheres that would normally surprise us, i.e. that the Court may conclude that the State is not responsible for the decisions it takes. If that were the case, this would be an absolutely unacceptable situation. Imagine what all those affected will think. The State shall use another public body. The Government takes a decision, and the Constitutional Tribunal, which is to uphold the compliance of the statutory and sub-law rules with the Constitution, suddenly finds that there is no link between the government's decision and its financial consequences. Of course, I am also talking about this in the context of assessing the constitutionality of these provisions. I am full of concerns about the decision of the Court in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u31	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This time I will ask questions closely related to the content of this bill. Well, if something like that's going to come out of the Senate, and it's going to come out perversely, it's going to have to be fairly legislatively consistent. The first issue concerns the definition of the trader and Article. 2. There is no definition here, so we would have to use one of the laws, I would call it the superiors of either a civil code or an entrepreneur's law. It would be helpful to indicate in the proposed law in which procedure these compensations are to be granted. Because it usually happens that if something is not regulated in the detailed law, then it refers to the law, I would call it, leading, for example. to the Code of Administrative Procedure. And this is closely related to the definition of entrepreneurs. I presume these definitions are scattered in particular legal acts. The second point also concerns a fundamental issue. This is the issue of transitional provisions. Because the law is to enter into force after seven days, so it is written in the project. Okay, but the question is, what does that apply to? Can such a law apply to facts And this is not written in this text of the project, there are no transitional provisions here. What happened before its entry into force? Please note that you would have created I refer to the authors, the applicants, the law that would apply only from a date. Well, let's say this goes fast and it's passed at the end of March. What about previous losses, damage, lost benefits? If this is not clearly written, then there will be doubts, and if doubts arise, we will give employment to lawyers. Simple question: why didn't you include it in the transitional provisions? It is about the facts that took place before the Act entered into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Just the definition of an entrepreneur functioning in the Polish legal order is, I would say, known. There's no discussion here. It is a natural or legal person or an organizational body which is not a legal person to whom a separate law grants legal capacity to conduct, pursue an economic activity. As for the transitional provisions, as regards the technical design of these provisions, I was the one who was guided by the Senate Legislative Office's opinion. As a person who had the opportunity to work and in the Seym, and in the Senate, I have the highest confidence in the Senate Legislative Office. I'm looking And I've had the opportunity to work at the government level as well. That this is a group of the best legislators in the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u34	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u35	Dear Marshal, no. For formal reasons, once again, there is no government position at this stage. I am here as the Undersecretary of State, a representative of the development department, one of those bodies that submitted their positions to the file. Well, our position is available to all of you, everyone has had a chance to get to know it. We also briefly discussed them during the committee's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. Although I'm sure they'll be asking you questions, which is why, if you don't mind, I'd like to invite you to the podium. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, I see. We understand perfectly well that you represent the resort, but at the same time... I'll say an analogy. You know how I'm sending my assistant from the transplant unit somewhere, he's not just representing the branch, he's representing the whole clinic. Of course, no one requires you to make binding declarations, although the answers to senators' questions, if any, are of course needed during the debate. Does Senator Jackowski come forward with a question to the representative... [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u37	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, I have the following question. Since the meeting of the committee on which you presented the position of the Ministry and certain doubts, has there been an increase in the government's reflection on the fact that the problem is serious? I ask especially in the context of the fact that we are now hearing that there are to be again sanitary exacerbations, that it is considered that we are entering the third... Is there any evolution of the position? Perhaps at the level of the government, it would be worth thinking about some solution in this regard, which is in line with the intention of the proposal that we are currently pursuing in the Senate. And my second question. What was the motivation of the government regarding the request made to the Constitutional Tribunal last September? I will admit that the content of this proposal surprised me very much. I would like to know the intention of the government in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u38	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'm gonna start by saying it's not exactly like I represent the government here. So this analogy, though funny, doesn't quite apply. I simply do not act within the authority of the Council of Ministers. If I had come here with a project adopted by the government, I would have acted under such authority. So, please take this as the voice of the Ministry only. So I'm going to be perfectly honest with you right now that I can't answer the second question because neither I personally nor Well, as far as I'm concerned. My resort was not involved in the work on this proposal. So I just can't answer that question, the more that I'll admit it without hitting. I haven't even had a chance to get to know him in full. So I don't want to talk about a document that I haven't even read entirely. As for the first question, and you asked the senator about the evolution of the position, the position of the ministry was expressed in writing. I just refreshed it a little while ago... Well, it hasn't really changed, it hasn't evolved. Here are the two main points. The first concerns the impact assessment of the regulation, which was, of course, carried out in the course of its work. However, this assessment seems to have such, I would say, a very general nature, and it does not really allow us to say what the implications for public finances are in the context of the draft law. And the second thing that's going on with the committee... This has not changed specifically, and therefore this position has not changed. It's about the procedure. We're giving the voivodeship here. 3 months to deal with extremely difficult cases, very diverse cases, which would normally be settled by a civil court in a long procedure, which would probably benefit from this, I am convinced of the expertise, i.e. He would have called an expert, perhaps even more than one. And we're here... Let me put it this way: we don't give this voivode some kind of instrumentarium that would allow him to execute this bill. This is a written position that I believe remains valid.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. To be honest, and without any hints, I value honesty and truth. You haven't read this document... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: I am talking about the application to the Court.]] I see. Here's the general attention. The High Senate always invites a government representative... This is not a complaint to you, but in some sense to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Morawiecki, because he should delegate a person who, in the case of such an important bill, as Mr Jackowski has pointed out... This law requires an in-depth debate, which we always take care of with due care in the Senate. But thank you for answering my questions as part of your mandate. You're asking Senator Pup a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u41	Minister, the efficiency of the Polish Development Fund, which operates as a supporting company, is generally quite high and good. But sometimes there are some cuts, and explanations that are given to companies through banks, of course, because there is a whole procedure to do this are insufficient. And often entrepreneurs are waiting for an explanation of incomprehensible practical refusals to pay due money, which is precisely what they deserve in the case of covid. And now is the request or the question: is there a chance, the possibility of improving this kind of action? The point is that these entrepreneurs do not feel hurt in some incomprehensible way so that they do not receive any dislike from the state's fund for payments. Because the bank sends the correct application and then the application is rejected by the computer at the Polish Development Fund. The problem is that we need to take measures that somehow give, you can say, a sense of solidity and which would serve companies. Because they arise like mushrooms after the rain of the company, which, of course, at a certain price They solve these problems, but I don't think that's the point. The point is that practically no one on companies who suffer because of the fact that there is a COVID has yet to earn extra money. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, thank you for your vote. I'm taking this a lot more as a request at this point. It's true, isn't it? It's more than something that I could answer very specifically right now. 'Cause there's probably some specific stories behind it. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Well, I can only say that this is a very big organizational effort. Please note that this is already highly automated and is largely based on statements from companies that request such assistance. But without knowing the specifics, I can only assure you that I will try to help in one way or another. Not necessarily on the path of such a very formalized Because even an email or a conversation is enough, I would try to get an interest in the case and figure out where the problem lies. [[This is about placing an accent on these issues, sometimes unfavorable in some way, so that there is no negative perception in society. Thank you very much.]] I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two questions. First, how do you view the transition from the concept of property losses in the original bill to the concept of property damage? Because the concept of property damage is wider, whether or not 70% is there , or 90% , or 100% . Does that kind of soften the government's position on this? Has this law become more acceptable? Has this project become more acceptable? And second question, essential. That is: the idea of this text, this project is to transfer the principles or legal institutions from the Law on equalisation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the state of extraordinary freedom and human rights and the citizen. So the point is that the tools of the bill, I would call it extraordinary, and especially the one about the natural disaster, could be applied in the event of epidemics and epidemics. Can such an idea be applied at all? Please refer to the idea. In short, will the idea itself continue to work on this project by the state In procedural matters, everything can be changed. Accepted or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u46	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u47	About the first question... In my opinion, this change that the senator has said about is, in fact, an extension of the scope of the voivode's cognition. Right? So this voivode's gonna have to study even more... to say in terms of more circumstances, even those, I'd say, harder to hold and harder. Because, above all, in this context, we are talking about these lost benefits, these potential benefits. And this only strengthens this argument, which was formulated in writing about the previous, narrower formula. It only reinforces this argument that the voivode is actually left without tools to face this task with an extremely difficult task, which, as I say, from some experience, also of his life... As a lawyer I know that it is extremely difficult, it is usually settled in long, complicated court proceedings, also involving experts, often many experts and... So I would say that what we're talking about here is something that even increases this problem. That's the problem, I mean. The problem that I would like to simplify is this: we leave the voivode with this task without tools, and we give her a very short time in which he has to make a decision. And second question. Well, it is, of course, such, I would say, much more difficult for me, because if such a bill goes to the Sejm, then only then will the position of the government be formally shaped and it will be created in such a circulation mode, and there is no guarantee that my resort will be a coordinating resort of this position. So it's hard for me to anticipate... Nevertheless, I would say this: on the very assumption of some of these most abstract ideas, I think that this is absolutely an idea that can be considered. I'm just saying it very abstractly right now. But, well, there's a saying: the devil is in the details. The problem is what we're gonna do with this idea. And how it is presented in this project, i.e. such, would say, a very generally regulated administrative procedure before the voivodship, very generally presented potential costs on the public side, issues a little more detailed, let's say, concerning these restrictions on the State Treasury side, appeals, issues of the fact that before the voivodship we apply k.p.a., a code of administrative procedure... There are different rules, procedural guarantees for parties, for authorities, also certain obligations. Well, here's what I'm gonna say: I think it's when you use k.p.a. The voivode will not be able to carry out this procedure because these procedural guarantees, which are in c.p.a., are impossible to perform in such a short time in such complex matters. So that on some very abstract level I do not cross this idea, but as it is formulated here... Well, I guess it just wouldn't work in practice. Especially within the limits of the Code of Administrative Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, and I think I'm going to ask for a written reply here. I'm talking about the help that the government has already given in all its shields. I'm sure that's the data in your department. I understand that these data are changing every now and then, well, they have to change, because this help is being provided on an ongoing basis. But so about, on this day, for this month, how much aid has already been paid to Polish entrepreneurs within the framework of all shields organized by the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, the answer will be in writing, and the Minister does not have to answer now. There are no other questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Alexander Swede. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: Am I staying, or...]] No, no. You're welcome, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! On 12 October 2020, Marshal Tomasz Grodzki gave no 232 to the bill of the Senators of the Civic Coalition, a law laying down the rules of compensation for entrepreneurs whose government shuts down business activity, forbids it to operate. On 3 December last year, the High House, the Senate, passed this bill. I remind you, it's been two months since then. A law that is supposed to give compensation, compensation for entrepreneurs, which, in my opinion, is contrary to the Constitution and the law in Poland The possibility of doing business is limited, even prohibited, in the Sejm. If the High House of Sejm had the Sejm... if the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice hadn't blocked this bill in the Sejm, we wouldn't have had to work today on a bill that we're discussing. Why? Because this law, which has already been passed by our House, provides for compensation for companies, and from the one that is being discussed today, it is actually different that, I think, there is no doubt about what is to be recovered, which is not, whether it is a loss or a loss or a loss, or an unearned income, for what time, under what conditions, who... Why? Because this law defines all of this in a clear and simple way. Namely, that any entrepreneurs whose public authorities prohibit or prohibit the conduct of business are entitled to reimbursement of fixed costs. But the legislator or we, the authors of this law, have made some self-limitation, namely we have narrowed the fixed costs to those that are most important, important. These are: employees' salaries costs 100%; wage-related costs, i.e. ZUS, PIT, taxes, health insurance premiums, social contributions 100%; rent and lease costs, because such costs need to be paid if you do not own your company 100% ; also the cost of insurance or leasing, each company has; of course also the cost of the media, i.e. water, electricity, fuel. That's how we narrowed it down, because we're treating it that way, because it's things that are undoubtedly known. If the employer pays the employees salaries, these are payrolls, there are transfers; if he pays the rent, he has a lease or lease; if he buys electricity, water, drains the sewage, he has invoices. There is no doubt about what, how much and for which you have to pay the entrepreneur. We agreed there that the reimbursement is to be based on monthly costs per day of closure, a ban on doing business, i.e. 1/30. Today, the High House is proposing another bill on compensation. This bill doesn't say 100%. Like the one I mentioned, which two months ago was passed, only 70%. the percentage, and otherwise specify the extent of those obligations of the economic operator whose cost is to be covered by the State. The State is to be represented in the case of the Act, which I mentioned, from print No 232, adopted on 3 December, by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, who, however, may cede his powers to the voivode and, in the case of this law, by the voivode. We, as the Civic Coalition, will support this project today, even though our project was adopted 2 months ago, because if the Law and Justice, if for some reason the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki did not comply with our law and that is why it is not dealt with in the Sejm, it will be the second proposal, and it is not identical, but slightly different. Law and Justice will have a chance to choose either. Each has its own, in my opinion, a good property, a right idea and treats entrepreneurs in a fair way. My 17-year-old practice in the Sejm tells me that both of these laws can be combined during the work of the Sejm commission and made out of these 2 laws, of these 2 projects one law. You have, if we pass this bill today, and I hope so. The possibility to choose or to carry out conjunction and to work constructively in the Sejm on print projects No 232, including from December, or from print No 307, including today's, if it is adopted. If you do not take action, I address the government and the majority of the Sejm Law and Justice It's like Senator Kwiatkowski said, and I've been saying this for months... Since that law was prepared in June 2020 and negotiated, consulted and only in October notified, the Polish State, if it does not solve the problem of compensation or compensation, neutral, who wants to treat these concepts It will incur significantly higher costs than those resulting from the adoption of these laws and exits to meet the needs of Polish entrepreneurs. These costs will be borne by the state, i.e. by society, by citizens, not by the government, not by law and justice. Only that the responsible authority, the responsible political party that governs, should look at the interests of the state and society, not at its own party interests. Let me conclude by saying that you will be here today in the Senate and then, as I understand it, in the Seym they passed another test of state responsibility. So far, in six years, you fail all your exams. You have a chance to fix it, to improve. Finally, you have the chance to prove, after 6 years, that the interests of entrepreneurs in Poland, their employees, because this is not just about employers, because when a company dies, their employees lose their jobs... Today you have the chance to prove that you are heartbroken, touches your consciences the fate of people who work hard in Poland today and suffer because of the effects of the epidemics here, in the Senate today, and tomorrow, in quotes tomorrow, in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will no longer talk about the details of the bill, the long hours behind us, the consultation of those concerned, with experts, with legislators. But I would like to encourage you to give some thought to the philosophy of the institutions of the state. State institutions must create this trust, this particular bond between the State and the citizen, between public institutions and those whose decisions are concerned by public institutions. And pay attention to the last few months. I would like to stress very strongly that I am aware of how unique it is not to say: difficult The situation we are all, including those who are ruling, who are trying to respond to their decisions, to counteract the phenomenon of pandemics. And, of course, here the votes will be divided. Some will say that the government makes decisions, changing them depending on the changing environment. The second part will say that the government works in chaos, without a plan and without a script. I don't want to settle this in my speech. For this I want to convince you to one thing: if these decisions, euphemistically speaking, are variable or are taken in chaos, then we must introduce a certain stability and sense of responsibility, trust where we can. This stability, the pillar of this responsibility, is that you are responsible for the decisions you take. Ladies and gentlemen, last July, the President of the Council of Ministers said: "We are increasingly less afraid of this virus, this epidemic. That's a good attitude because he's in the back. There's no need to be afraid now. The interesting thing is that the research that was done at the time, in July, among employers, talked about a clear increase in optimism, and even about a quite large group of those who said: we will hire back, develop our activities. Notice the signal we've been sending to these people for months. The signal on which they made decisions, which later turned out to be wrong in retrospect. After all, there are such companies as: In the middle of the year, they opened up believing in these assurances that the virus was already in reverse. It's said, "Oh, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I don't assume the Prime Minister's evil will when he said those words. But if we are already bringing about such situations, then in order to restore trust between the state and the citizen, regardless of the legal conditions which speak of legal responsibility for decisions taken... This unique bond on which the functioning of every democratic rule of law is based must now be rebuilt on the basis of rules which will define a clear, legible compensation procedure for decisions that have been taken. I am talking about this because a really extremely disturbing signal for me is the request to the Constitutional Court to assess the compatibility with the Constitution of the rules on the liability of the State Treasury. Well, a horse with a row of who gives me another example in the world, where the state tries to wash its hands, avoid responsibility for its decisions. And we are at an exceptional moment, and this is a good time, because before us there is the possibility of using hundreds of billions of zlotys that will come to Poland within the framework of the new budgetary perspective of the European Union, within the framework of reconstruction and development funds, within the framework of the so-called. Green Character Program. Of course, like everyone else, I am concerned about whether these documents will be approved by the government. I want to believe that I do. And believing that this would happen, and again acting with a sense of confidence in the Prime Minister's words, who spoke about the huge success that he brought back from Brussels... If we can benefit from these measures, there will be no clearer, clearer, more transparent and non-recognizable procedure for supporting entrepreneurs than the bill we are working on. I would like to ask the senators and ladies to accept this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Senate. The pandemic period has been going on for a long time, and it is undoubtedly extremely tiring. There are discussions and polemics on how we are fighting this pandemic, whether we are taking advantage of all possibilities, whether we are acting properly. The opposition has a role to play here. On the one hand, of course, it must be critical, and on the other hand it would be good for it to also be involved in the process of combating pandemics with its proposals. Recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Dworczyk, accused the opposition of politicalising this debate and called for it not to do so. I believe that this appeal, unfortunately, really meant calling on the opposition to give up criticism, and to criticize is for this period. Not to mention... In fact, I will mention, but very briefly, all the stories about masks, ventilators, ghost hospital at the National Stadium or the terrible organisation of vaccination records for seniors It is difficult to define as the politicisation of this debate, it is a natural law of opposition. But perhaps the greatest damage that is not of a transitional nature was caused by the politicalisation of this process by the government itself. After all, the failure to approve of the natural disaster last spring, when all the indications indicated it, was a political decision. We know exactly why the government didn't want to make that decision. It was a first-born sin, and from this first-born sin came the next sins that actually led And here is the great responsibility of the government. For legal anarchy. Because what are we dealing with? Well, we are dealing with the fact that the government of regulations lays down certain rights, and citizens, both individual and entrepreneurial, care for these rights, do not respect this right, one can say: they ignore them. The government, of course, is falling into a thunderstorm. Votes: How can you do that?Attempts are being made to punish, impose sanctions on these citizens, and, on the other hand, there is growing opposition and lack of trust. This is a terrible process, this is the anarchy of our social life. Well, I was wondering what to call this phenomenon that the government introduced into our lives, and I couldn't think of anything better than a law against the law. This is a phenomenon we have not seen in a long time, although when it comes to the violation of the Constitution, this, of course, has been the case for six years. But yes, I would say that there have been no clear regulation. The talk here was about courts that have already spoken in these cases. Entrepreneurs are rebelling, they do not want to pay the penalties first, and then, of course, they will claim compensation. They don't want to pay the penalty first. And there are those sentences, there was talk of it, Senator Kwiatkowski talked about it. I would like to quote only two sentences from the judgment of the Provincial Administrative Court in Opole, which dealt with the complaint against the penalty imposed for opening the plant despite the ban on opening the plant. The court in this explanatory memorandum says this: no provision in the Anti-Infection Act And on this bill, everything is based on the government's actions. It does not contain the power to specify in the Regulation prohibitions on the pursuit of economic activities. And further: the procedure for their implementation led to the regulation of statutory matter and the infringement of a number of fundamental freedoms and rights of the individual, including the freedom of economic activity. Well, ladies and gentlemen, for anyone who reads the Constitution with understanding, the Act on the State of Natural Disaster, and, on the other hand, the Act on Combating Infections and Those Unhappy Regulations, this case is absolutely clear, it is clear that it was not right to act so that the government was responsible for the fact that this state of natural disaster did not implement, did not act correctly and in accordance with the law. Yeah, we heard it then. I remember this, because we were having these discussions, our majority of the Senate demanded the introduction of a natural disaster, apart from political arguments, which maybe were hidden under a cork, economic arguments that the introduction of a natural disaster would seriously strain the state's budget. Well, the argument is strange, because moments later, and until today, more than 200 billion zlotys have been spent to support companies in various forms, and perhaps up to 300 billion zlotys will come, because if we accept the data that Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about, or seventy-seven billion dollars, it will be about 300 billion zlotys. The vast majority of these measures were addressed to companies outside the budget, in a completely different way. So, as you can see, the money was found, only that some entrepreneurs received more than they deserved, others received less than they deserved, and yet others did not receive at all, although they deserved it. It is therefore absolutely necessary to deal with this matter. A government that introduces a law that is against the law that puts businessmen in such a situation should, it seems, approach with some understanding, with some empathy for this matter and seek the right solution. And in the meantime, what does the Prime Minister do? The Prime Minister, as was mentioned here, goes to the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal, the creation entirely in the hands of the PiS, the question is whether the provision they can invoke and are already invoked by traders who are rightly seeking compensation is in line with the Constitution. Of course, we expect a result... Either it's a definite outcome, or it's gonna be delaying all of this, putting it aside, and, so to speak, pressureing the courts to suspend proceedings, because the case has been hanged in the Constitutional Court, and the judges who do not give in to these pressures will be subject to sanctions. What does that mean? I'm talking to the citizens right now. Dear citizens, this case shows that if in future you are right to seek compensation, you will have legitimate claims on the Treasury and you will be based on a provision, then you must count on the fact that the Prime Minister will refer this provision to the so-called. The Constitutional Court, which knows what it's gonna do about it. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the fall of power, since power reaches such pathetic methods. The proposal that is being put forward at the moment, and the proposal that was previously referred to by Senator Szejnfeld, these are constructive proposals, these are concrete proposals, proposals that allow the government to get out of the dead alley. By the way, when it comes to costs... That's what I'm talking about. The question was whether the 70% This is more than a property loss from the act on compensation granted as a result of a disaster, whether it is less. I'm sure it's less. The profitability of catering companies and other entities, the overall profitability of companies in relation to costs is a few percent. We're talking a few percent profit. So 70% the amount of costs, even increased by a few percent, that is certainly less than the property loss itself. And that's why it's a settlement proposal. I wouldn't be afraid here. This is a compromise proposal, absolutely acceptable. As for the time for the voivods that we were talking about here... Good. Things will be in the Sejm if the Sejm wants to take care of them. He didn't want to take care of them until now. Of course, some things could be regulated there. This law has one powerful flaw, namely, it is a law declared by the opposition. I'm aware of that. But I have come up with an idea that I would like to drop off to Minister Niebózak here. Over a year ago, we passed a bill that dealt with pensioners born in 1953. [[Voice from the room: In a year...]] In 1953, yes. This bill was intended to restore higher pensions to pensioners and pensioners, above all to ladies who were victimized, etc., etc. We passed this bill to our senate majority, the opposition majority, and then in the Seym he wandered, as usual, into the freezer. He's been there a long time, but the case was right, burning. So what did the government do? The government passed this bill, signed under it, submitted as its own and, of course, it was passed. That is why I propose that this idea be used also in the case of this bill. And I guarantee here, in agreement with the rapporteur and with one of the authors, that in this case we will not make copyright claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Visitors and All of you who are listening to us at the moment via the Internet and other media! We are dealing with a situation that shows how in the lens problems resulting from completely unpredictable events. A year ago, February 19th, no one's dreamt about it. Even though the announcements have already been made That there will be very serious restrictions in Poland, that this will be the development of a pandemic. That this will bring about such and not other consequences for education, for social life, for economic life, for cultural life Because it also affected the way we greet, contact, build human relationships for business life, but also for political life. This is at the moment the topic no. 1 of the public debate in Poland. With a broad understanding of pandemics and all aspects related to pandemics, all other topics go further. And indeed, as long as at the beginning of this pandemic it was possible to judge and there was such an optimistic belief that it was a matter of a few months and the problem would be resolved, that is all we know today. Even government officials are announcing this. It's not that easy. The issue of pandemics is not the horizon of weeks or months, it may be a longer time horizon. We just don't know that. Therefore, it seems that in order to preserve the economic potential of Poland this is an extremely important issue, because at the moment we have a situation when many Polish entities In particular, in the small and smaller enterprises sector, it is, I have an impression, discriminated against by the government, while powerful international corporations and large economic organisms are somehow able to persuade public administrations to their own ends and benefit from some milder forms of restriction than the smaller ones. I don't think there's a dispute here where everyone says there's no pandemic... Although there are such voices, I know that such voices are heard: it doesn't matter at all, these sharpenings are unnecessary. That's the kind of voice that comes out. But generally in the business community, in the business community, there are no such voices. Everyone agrees that sharpenings must be in some form, but these sharpenings should be based on two general principles: the first rule is the logic and substance of these sharpenings, and the second principle, the fundamental principle, is the legal basis for introducing these restrictions, because we are dealing with the restriction of civil liberties and freedoms. And there's no doubt about that. We had a discussion in our House yesterday about the Ombudsman on the occasion of the election of the Ombudsman and this subject also appeared. And now, if these conditions are to be met, let's start with the legal path. We know that this legal path raises serious doubts. We know about the decisions of the voivodship administrative courts, a certain legal line is being established. This is not enough, for example, when discussing the famous curfew on New Year's Eve, it turned out that the government itself admitted that there is no legal basis for this curfew until the end of the legal framework. And this formula of travel restrictions was used, certain categories were excluded, so as to somehow come out of this impasse. And that is why I think that a very serious group of entrepreneurs may resent the Polish state and the public administration, but not because there is a pandemic, because it is obviously not the fault of the rulers, but precisely for these illogicalities. What do I call illogical? Well, for example, commercial galleries are opening, and restaurants or fitness clubs are not, and we know from phytosanitary regulations that according to construction regulations the exchange of air in the fitness club must be 15 times larger than in the shopping gallery. So from this point of view, in view of the environment in which people are staying, so to speak, it is very clear that this is a safe zone in this respect than a shopping gallery. We also know that some entrepreneurs are appalled... Why can casinos work where people stay side by side for hours and the restaurant in the sanitary regime can't work? Why you can travel by rail or other means of public transport Yes, with limitations, and rightly so, these restrictions are absolutely legitimate But it is no longer possible to use certain services that, from an epidemiological point of view, would not pose a greater risk, provided that health regulations are applied rather than traveling through these means of communication? It gives rise to reasonable doubt. The whole issue of holidays, winter holidays, hotels, agrotourism... This, High Izbo, is tens of thousands of entrepreneurs, these are hundreds of thousands of people who live out of it. And imagine that there are also areas where the entrepreneur not only pays fixed costs in the form of e.g. the cost of renting the premises, but leases even the equipment needed for its business. This is how the whole event industry works in culture, that is, all those who organize concerts. The world band can come to Poland and do not need to bring 3 tirors of sound equipment to the concerts by plane And these concerts don't exist right now. But thanks to the fact that there are professional companies, which according to certain standards provide such equipment, someone can actually come to Poland with a suitcase. Right? Yeah, but this equipment pays leases. This is a million-dollar asset. You have to pay for it. And often, when someone conducts business in such a formula, it corresponds to their own wealth, the quality of their entire family, their loved ones, so these are human dramas. I don't want to go into the details here anymore and analyze the question of how this shield works, whether these solutions have reached everyone, because you could talk about it for hours. There are some inconsistencies, there are very broad areas where there was no possibility, despite very similar activities... This famous classification, which is used in statistics, also determines who will get it, and it was often a random choice that this particular activity, which the entrepreneur carries out, was qualified. High Izbo, what does that mean? It follows from this that in my deep conviction in the interest of the Polish state Because we know that the pandemic is not ending, that there may be new sharpenings, that the industries in which the restrictions have been loosened may be closed again, that these tensions on the state line The business environment will unfortunately increase... And such a law, in my deep conviction, would be some attempt to build a certain settlement or agreement between business environments and the Polish state. And that's why I think it would be good for the government to consider how to approach this topic. Whether to support this project or to prepare your own project or to change some rules here. The Minister spoke of these three months. It's all work to be done. The project will probably leave the Senate today and go to the Sejm, so there will be an opportunity to discuss it for longer. There's still time to find a way out of this to make a point. I understand that the horizon of a few months is different from the horizon of many years. And it is known that legal proceedings for damages will last many, many years before they are finally finalized But the Polish state will not escape it. Sooner or later, she's gonna have to pay those damages. No matter who will rule then, the costs will be borne by taxpayers, their children, and perhaps their grandchildren. Therefore, after considering all these arguments in favour and against, I will support this draft law, bearing in mind that perhaps it should still be refined in the framework of the procedures that Minister Nieżak pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan, remotely, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal... [[You're welcome.]] ...for giving me the floor. I am positively surprised to hear from my colleague, my previous speaker, Senator Jackowski. You put it well. This could be an attempt to make a settlement, to bridge the gap between what's been going on so far about all these shields, and what it's really like, what it's really like. I often talk to people who have experienced what is happening in different ways. And this isn't about you babysitting these people in some way today, giving them money or lost profits, but you have to try to get out of it face-to-face. And today I don't see that kind of rehearsal. I have repeatedly written to Minister Emilevich. Even when these shields were created, I wrote about different groups of entrepreneurs, I wrote about PKD codes, I wrote about entrepreneurs who wouldn't get on these shields for all kinds of trivial reasons. Of course, all of this has been omitted, it hasn't been recognised by the government, it hasn't translated into government action. As Senator Jackowski said, this is an attempt to settle. Well, I don't believe that... if this pandemic passes in a year, perhaps sooner, perhaps a little later, then people will go to court and judge with the Polish state, no matter who will be in power then. The State cannot leave its citizens, especially if it introduces various kinds of strange bans, which are largely avoided, unrespected, especially by certain groups. And we have seen many examples of the fact that one is slow more than another. Well, that's very unfair. I'm sure it's a project that should be considered positively. Even if the government wanted to take credit for it, I wouldn't argue. As Senator Borowski said, you can do the same thing with the previous laws. Let the government propose a similar initiative or initiative, and we will certainly support it. I'm counting on the other Senators from the PiS, too. We have to stand above political divisions here, because it's about the economy, it's about people, it's about human drama, it's not about any ideological wars. This is about the economy, and the economy is measurable. Like Pythagoras said, there's as much truth in every science as there's math in it. Math can't be fooled. People can just prove how much they lost because of this pandemic, because of the government's actions. And these are truly human tragedies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! When the pandemic began, the government introduced By regulations, rules restricting civil liberties, i.e. restricting mobility, restricting contacts, restricting or eliminating assembly and demonstration activities for this period. It also limited the freedom of economic activity. We talked about the fact that the constitution states that this can be done in an emergency situation, only in an emergency situation, and that it can be done through laws. I'm not gonna quote those constitutional rules so I don't repeat it, but that's clear. It is clear not only to every lawyer, but also to every citizen who knows at least a little about the law. Art. 233 is talking about this particular matter that we are discussing, namely that freedom of economic activity can only be limited by laws. And we talked about it, we said it, and we even demanded... But the government has decided to go in its activities essentially outside the constitution. When we said we had to put in a state of disaster, because all the indications that are in this bill... Well, almost with the naked eye it was visible, all the indications were that this state of disaster needed to be introduced. There were 2 arguments from the government at the time. The first political decision would have to be postponed. Well, actually, you'd have to. And the second argument, which at first was somewhat hidden behind that first argument The first one is that elections have to be held, and so it would have to be postponed. It was that compensation would have to be paid, because the disaster law, but also others, clearly indicate it. There is a direct provision that would be difficult to interpret differently. It seems that we're all in agreement... That is also the reflection of the government. Yes? Because since the government, the President of the Council of Ministers, in August, asks the Constitutional Tribunal to interpret the article. 417 §1 of the Civil Code, which is the basis for the liability of the State Treasury In accordance with that provision, the State Treasury or the local government unit is liable for damage caused by unlawful acts or omissions in the exercise of public authority... Since this is the case before the Court, it obviously knows that the restrictions of this type introduced by regulations do not have a legal basis. They would have to be introduced by laws, and these laws could only be introduced if the state of the natural disaster was declared. The elections took place, but only regulations remain in place. Regulations that should indicate... They are possible, but they should talk about technical matters, not about the fact that restaurants, the fitness industry, cannot function as a whole economic activity in which you have contact with people, which is a service activity, where of course there is the greatest movement of people. Regulations can talk about technical details, e.g. about how far a table should be set from the table, what air flow is to be, what frequency of customer service, what area is needed for these customers. Regulations should set out such technical details, not interfere in matters of human rights and freedoms. So it is clear to me that the President of the Council of Ministers, who is addressing the Constitutional Tribunal on this matter, himself has doubts. He basically knows what the court decisions are and what they're gonna be. The justification for this request... one of the important reasons is that judicial judgments may differ, and therefore there must be a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which will rule. But besides, it's kind of a constitutional examination in a way scattered by the courts, which, of course, this authority doesn't want. Yeah, but how's the situation... What are these judgments? Judgments are uniform because other courts can't judge. I'm sure this motion will end... Well, I suspect how it's gonna end. Like other similar proposals which the Government of Law and Justice refers to the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of Przyłębska. And then, of course, members of the government or those who support them politically will say that there could be no other ruling. Of course, it will be a judgment... I am so convinced that this will be a judgment undermining the principle of State compensation. Therefore, the time to process this proposed law should be short, this procedure should be quick. But of course, we'll be... If it turns out that some of the members of the PiS or Jarosław Gowin's party will also want to support this bill, then of course the Court of Justice of Przyłębska will hurry. This motion has been in the Court since the end of August, but I am sure there will be an acceleration here. So this is not a trivial situation. Of course, I know why the current government does not agree with the principle that I have spoken of and prefers such compensation to be decided by the courts. Well, long periods of court proceedings and judicial decisions after the so-called. the judicial reform of the PiS has grown even longer and they will grow longer. So it's a matter of 3 or 4, maybe even 5 years. So the tactical principle is that, of course, compensation will have to be paid, but not now, just a few years later, and it's not us, not the current government that's going to have to do it, and it's going to have to break their heads where to get the money. And that is now the Law and Justice tactic: to push back, not to pursue, to push back, and then to do it somehow. But the law is not... It's not like it's gonna be okay. The rules of law must be implemented. The Constitution in one of the first articles states that power can act only on the basis of law and law. And that wasn't realized. The precedent of such a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, which only to some extent will question this cardinal principle, gives, please, the country, an open road, a much wider... This gives a much wider way, because already in the covid laws it was passed that it does not correspond to the one who breaks the law, because if there is a need higher, at the time of the COVID, it is all right. And that's the continuation. And if we go this way, we stop being a state of law, and citizens in power, in every power of trust, will have no trust, they will lose that trust.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the Senate's proposal for the Senate Act is to help the government and not just the government, because the Senate is a House that wants to help Poles, Polish entrepreneurs and people who are employed by these entrepreneurs. We want to help our citizens. For me, this bill is a kind of test that will show whether the government is the government of PiS or the Polish government. Yesterday in this Chamber we had a hearing of the candidate for the Ombudsman and when the words were made that he was the Minister of the Government of PiS, there was a great outrage on this side of the room, they said: no, he is the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. I wonder if you, Dear Lords, are the Government of the Republic of Poland or the Government of the PiS... [[And are you the Senate of the Republic of Poland or...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] We are the Senate of the Republic of Poland and we would like to bring this law to this... [[Yes?]] [[Mr. Senator Bang, please don't disturb me.]] [[I won't allow myself to be offended.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Then keep an eye on the order.]] [[Mr. Senator Knuckle, for the time being...]] [[Voice from the room: Please call to order...]] [[(Vice-Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz:... for the second time I call you to order. You've signed up, you'll speak, you'll be able to argue.]] The government is now throwing itself from wall to wall. There are bans, then loosening, based on research, which is research not Polish, but from other countries, from America, about the spread of Coronavirus. Well, the Americans, with all due respect for this country and for Poland, have different customs. There are other models of movement of society, there are fewer people who go to church than we do. We should have our research. And I think that Poland can afford to independently check how the virus is spread in Poland and in what sanitary restrictions entrepreneurs can work in. Because they can work. We need to get used to this virus being with us longer. As we hear at the moment, there are already Japanese, Finnish mutations, previously British, Spanish mutations. This virus is likely to stay with us longer and we need to learn to live with it. And it is the government's responsibility to make the country work responsibly. Meanwhile, our government deals with runaways, conflicts. I'm not gonna talk about it. He was expanding, but one thing really upsets me. Right now, people are at the limit of endurance. With this bill we want to give them the opportunity to survive, the opportunity to survive their businesses, their families and their employees' families. And what do entrepreneurs get instead? A week ago, there was news in the press that the Minister and Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro had ordered the prosecutors to carry out as short as possible any investigations against those who are opening up businesses and to initiate criminal proceedings immediately. Is this how the responsible government behaves? Is this how the responsible Polish government behaves, that it wants to pursue people who want to work honestly? Because they don't want to rob anyone. They don't throw themselves at $70 million, they don't do business on ventilators or they don't do business on masks that aren't good for anything. They just want to work. And that's what they're being punished for? So, in conclusion, I will say that this bill of the Senate really extends its hand to the government, to the entire governing camp and says: show that you are with Poles, you are with entrepreneurs, you are with those who want to work honestly. This is a test. Pass him over, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u64	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, perhaps a little more people than usual are listening to the deliberations of our House. Unfortunately, I have bad news for everyone: he certainly does not listen to this discussion by the President of the Republic of Poland because he skis. During World War II, when the Germans bombed London and there were restrictions on access to water, the British king on the bathtub at Buckingham Palace set a line to show that as king he would use water on exactly the same rules as all the citizens of Great Britain suffering with him. Polish authority on a personal level shows us that for her pandemic is an opportunity to earn money, it is an opportunity to play a political game, not an opportunity to do what we are all called to do, that is to help Poles. What if today's power were an opposition and had to comment on what is happening in Poland today? What words would be used, what words would we hear if the PiS politicians were in opposition to the government, which allowed casinos to roam for months and at the same time watched Polish gastronomy, Polish fitness companies fall? I repeat: what would such eloquent senators, Laws and Justice say, what questions would they ask, what would they say about who is behind the fact that casinos could smash money from morning to evening while Polish entrepreneurs fell? You are comforted that you have a pro-state opposition, which, from the very beginning, here in this House, where there is a majority, was ready to cooperate with you, reaching out to you, which was still not a positive response. Today, thanks to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's initiative, thanks to his work from the very beginning in this field, as an outstanding lawyer and a functioning politician, we in some sense tried under his leadership Not politically, but from the substantive point of view, to deal with this problem, which is a pandemic for Polish entrepreneurs and for the Polish country at all. Ladies and gentlemen, we have prepared in this House as the first concrete solutions for the pandemic, and we are the first to refer them to the Sejm, which has not taken care of them until today. And that's also true about why we have to talk about it here today. Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear the argument that it was impossible to introduce a state of emergency because it was decided by financial issues and budgetary responsibility, I would believe it if the extreme liberals and monetaryrs said it because these are the words of the arsenal of liberals and monetaryists: we don't spend money because we can't afford it. For God's sake! Did the principal's father ever hear you say you couldn't afford anything, like a month in a month comes to you for money? The tens of millions that go to Torun... Did any of them hear from you that you couldn't afford it? Did Jacek Kurski hear from you that you can't afford to take and not give money for oncology and give money for propaganda? No. That's not what the directors of Torun and the propagandists of Voronicz heard from you, because money is for them. For whom is there always in the case of this authority, so to speak, a willing ear and a wide pocket? Yeah, well, you had to get even with the Charitor family. 120 million euros. The biggest one-time transaction in the history of the Polish budget for someone, for the family. 120 million euros The government of Law and Justice paid Czartoryski for a painting that he always hung in Poland and would always hang in Poland. And you know what they did, with the applause of the gentlemen sitting here, the Charitors with the money? In a few days they left for Luxembourg and did not return to Poland until today. Did the Czartorys hear from you, Senators, that the Polish state could not afford to pay Czartoryski for the painting that hangs in Krakow? Did they hear from you that the Polish states could not afford to export nearly half a billion zlotys with your permission to Luxembourg? No, they didn't hear that. Polish entrepreneurs can hear about the fact that the Polish state cannot afford anything. They hear the fitness industry, they hear the hotels, they hear the owners of the small bets. They're different from the mighty of this world, they're Poles, they work here, they make money here. There's no big media behind them, there's no big capital behind them, and there's no casinos behind them. Their hard work and taxes are behind them, which pay honestly to the Polish budget and which you are squandering. And today is the wrath that is guided What each of us regrets about the Polish state will also be one of the worst legacys of your governments. Not only is this horrible division between us, Poles, it is talking about a worse sort, it is the notorious insulting and throwing out of our national community those with whom you disagree, but it is also an extraordinary reduction in the authority of the Polish state, which under your rule lacked two things: wisdom and solidarity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u66	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! More than a year ago, the world stood on its head and for a year now Poland has also been on its head. By a pandemic, by something that no one anticipated, and which we couldn't imagine in our worst dreams, which we didn't think would reach us. But in times like these, when it's hard, we need a country, we need a responsible state, we need a responsible authority. I was an entrepreneur for 27 years, and in fact for 27 years I knew that the most important thing was to work, pay taxes, and that the state wouldn't bother me. Because every entrepreneur knows that if no one bothers him and if the law is stable, he can handle it. In situations like this... And what has always been important to me: I have paid taxes, high taxes, in the belief that I pay them for my safety, for my safety, for my health safety, for my education security, for my safety in every way, for my borders, but also because when the time comes, this country will be behind me, then you will defend me, and you will do everything you can to help me so that I can pay taxes again later. Different restrictions have been introduced for an indefinite period, because in fact none of us today can say how much longer a partial or total lockdown will be in force. None of us can tell you how long the pandemic will last. But in such a situation, when it has been going on for more than a year, and in Poland for a year, the government should already have a plan long ago, to have a plan as to how the number of diseases in certain parts of the country will increase or decrease depending on how the number of diseases in certain areas of the country will be either loosened or closed down and in which sectors. Entrepreneurs have the right to expect the State to make such a plan so that the entrepreneur knows what will happen next month if there are so many diseases and what will happen in two months. Unfortunately, the government didn't do it. Every two weeks, everyone finds out what's gonna suddenly change for the next two weeks. We are dealing with very irrational and incomprehensible decisions. Because here the hotels close, the restaurants close, and the casinos open. 'Cause here's the pool opening, but you leave the aquaparks closed, and these swimming pools are mostly in the aquaparks. Because the fitness industry doesn't know when it's gonna be able to function. I wonder how many infections were in the fitness industry. Because there's a lot of people in the shopping malls that opened and this is the information from yesterday, also because they don't know how long these malls will stay open... But now you can buy food there, but you can't eat it in this center because the guards make sure that people don't eat there. Therefore, people go outside, gather and eat there. Wouldn't it be better if there was an open restaurant where at every other table there could be two people or one person or family, and those people could normally eat food they bought? The government has no idea what to do, and I would like it to finally admit it and say, opposition, help. The opposition has been helping for a year, rational amendments to the created laws are reported, but at the seymical stage they are rejected. The rational drafts of the bill came out of the Senate and lie in the seym freezer. At the same time, the Prime Minister asks the Constitutional Court to interpret the Article. 417, it is the responsibility of the State Treasury for the damage caused by the adoption of an unconstitutional normative act. So the Prime Minister already knows that the article was violated. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning I have good news for the Prime Minister: this is the case. Such a judgment was delivered by the Constitutional Tribunal on 4 December 2001, the signature SK 18/00. This is the judgment on the compatibility of the Article. 417 with a constitution, so I do not know what else the Prime Minister expects from the Constitutional Tribunal. Instead, perhaps it would be worth focusing on drawing up a rational plan and making it public so that entrepreneurs in this country know what they're doing. On the basis of January 2021 data, 490,000 suspended companies. I stress: 490,000 suspended companies. The number of active economic activities is decreasing. Of course, the aid did not reach the entrepreneurs who started their activities in 2020. I'm talking about 115,000 single-person businesses. Not everyone can wait a year or two to start a business. Sometimes the start of the business was caused by the loss of work in large companies. People have to make a living. They started doing business and have absolutely no help. And that is why we expect, instead of wondering how to undermine the rule of the Civil Code, which will compensate all entrepreneurs in the future, you will consider how to help these entrepreneurs. Once again, I must express my appreciation for the work of Senator Kwiatkowski, who created a bill to help entrepreneurs. I appeal to all of you: I am talking about the government side instead of thinking about it. How to turn this bill over, how to put this project in a seym freezer, if it is passed here, it is better to think about real helping entrepreneurs. The opposition is still working to help Polish entrepreneurs. The government needs to start listening to this opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u68	Thank you very much. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Mark Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! To be honest, this debate is terrible. Various scandalous debates have already taken place here during this term, but this is probably a total waste of authority and the achievements of the Senate. I've been hearing total demagogy, untruth, populism and screaming here for hours. It's never been in the Senate before. You are insulting the Polish government and you are exposing yourself to negative assessments of all the actions of the Polish authorities, the democratic Sejm, the democratic government, while the government of the United Right has been struggling with a pandemic that has never existed in history for a year. The effects of this struggle are appreciated throughout the world. We are in many aspects given as an example of expertise, wisdom, discretion, long-term thinking. Polish economy despite extraordinary difficulties, despite the extraordinary problems of many entrepreneurs, very many social groups are still in quite good condition. Against the background of European economies, we have a chance to exit the covid recession, we have a chance to enter the post-covid era in such a condition that we can begin to recover quickly, so that we can hope for a quick and strong reflection. All government activities are focused on saving the Polish economy, Polish entrepreneurs. Just look at the size of economic growth, the level of Polish unemployment and many, many other components that objectively speak about the condition of the Polish economy. I don't mean to say that the situation is colorful, it's wonderful that it's pink. We are all aware of the challenge facing the Polish state at the moment, but above all Polish citizens, Polish entrepreneurs. We're trying to help wide. From the very beginning this was appreciated in individual shields, that they offer simple, easy to obtain and broad assistance. But, of course, it is not possible to help everyone equally and in the same effective way, because there are different economic activities, there are different economic problems, and there are different characteristics of different economic areas. Not everyone can just be helped in the same easy way. But we've been studying this COVID all along. We're learning, we haven't had any experience yet. Nobody had them, the world didn't have them. With huge problems are faced by economies much richer, much stronger, much more modern than the Polish economy. So I just want to say that we are facing an extraordinary challenge, a challenge that also requires national unity, national solidarity, political solidarity. Meanwhile, the state here has incredibly aggressive politics, populism and demagogy. I will not allow you, Senator Bury, to be insulted here continually, because I represent the 48 Senators of Law and Justice who are doing what they can in this House so that the covid laws are adopted quickly, efficiently and wisely. And this country, the representatives of the Senate majority, is doing everything you can to complicate this legislative process, extend and present yourself to the public in such a light that it is so de facto... No one's gonna give you as much as the Senate promises. But these are promises that are uncoverable. Many times that we have been convinced here that these are uncounted promises, that either there are no calculated budgetary implications, or that the consequences are that they would simply destroy the Polish budget and public finances. And we just can't let that happen because it's an activity that's harmful to you. But you are allowed, because you will not bear any responsibility for the words that you say here, because you have not taken responsibility for the state, but have made the Senate on the one hand a chamber of obstruction, and on the other hand I will say this directly to populism and aggressive demagogy. It's never been in the Senate before. You will see that what is happening in this House will be very damaging to the Polish Senate in the future term. In conclusion, I will say that there are many legal problems that arise, such as the problem, whether to respond by regulations or by laws. Or maybe that is one of the reasons that we respond with regulations: we want to react quickly and effectively, not to procede every law 30 days in the Senate in the atmosphere, I stress it once again, aggression, demagogy and lies that you tell about the actions of the Polish government. I cannot agree to this as a senator of the Republic of Poland, nor can I agree to it as one who represents the Government of the United Right in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the countries around us, we will see that in Poland restrictions on freedom, restrictions on economic activity are still relatively small. See what it looks like in Germany, in this economic power. See what it looks like in Austria, where practically nothing can be done without the current vaccination, without the current test result. Well, you can't say. To go to a beauty shop, to a hairdresser, kids can't go to school. These are much more severe, much further sharpening than in Poland. But I think we're going the rational way of the center that we're trying to balance these things out. You can see what's happening again when it comes to disease statistics. Well, the stabilization we're trying so hard to introduce is incredibly delicate, shaky. And there are no strong ones for that. This situation cannot be presented as if it were some kind of malice of Prime Minister Morawiecki's government, because we are all in over our heads. She's bigger than the United States, and Germany, and France, etc., etc. For God's sake, let's finally start talking peacefully in this Senate, responsible, united. Once again you are serving a project whose effects are not calculated, which due to its scale is extremely dangerous to the budget, while telling Poles that the Polish government has not given anything to Polish entrepreneurs. Well, it's hundreds of billions of dollars. This is one of the highest percentages of economic aid, given our economic opportunities, GDP growth, etc., etc. Well, there's basic integrity in all of this. That's how you're just gonna blow up this country. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u70	Thank you very much. Please take the floor... Senator Jackowski again? [[Yes, sir.]] Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Marshal...]] There is indeed a problem, this problem is serious, but in my deep conviction the source of this problem is the wrong legislative path, which has been adopted to define pandemic restrictions. This is the source of these disputes. We remember the discussions from May, we remember the discussions later, we remember the discussions about the state of emergency, the state of natural disaster, we remember the other discussions that were held on this subject. It is very interesting to hear the court's ruling on the alleged violation of sanitary rules during the Wawel ceremony. Well, it shows that it's simply wrong for those who criticize those who, in turn, try to come up with these doubts against those who are trying to solve this problem. And the problem is very serious. Well, in my deepest opinion, this situation is simply a delayed-fire bomb. That could be said, all the more so because we are starting a journey into the unknown, because we do not know what the further scale of the pandemic will be and what we will have to do about it. Therefore, I think that such a proposal for a settlement, a proposal for an agreement, a proposal for dialogue, not a confrontation, is necessary. Yes, this aid was indeed large, but it did not always go to the places it should have been. There are whole groups of entrepreneurs who have been completely excluded from this aid, and this must also be remembered. I would like to say one more point that I did not mention because of the time constraints in my previous speech. It seems to me that if we are talking about sharpenings, we need to act on the basis of very substantive reflections in a team consisting of many specialists in various areas and adopt logical and rational sharpenings, and preferably where possible, allow for some forms of doing business. 'Cause why charge next generation's costs? Whether it's compensation, whether it's some new shields, new forms of aid, it's going to have to pay back eventually and it's going to be a serious burden, since it's possible to simply give the possibility that the Polish economy, especially those segments that are at risk, whether they're in a very difficult situation, whether on the verge of bankruptcy or after bankruptcy, can somehow function on their own. It seems to me that deep reflection is also needed in this regard. An example of restaurants or other industries whose activities are frozen as a result of pandemics is the best evidence that it would be possible to look for solutions, all the more so as entrepreneurs declare good will, they themselves propose what kind of sanitary solutions to implement in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u73	Thank you very much, Marshal. The bill that we are discussing is actually an attempt to reduce the amount of compensation that entrepreneurs could claim. Because according to the OSR attached to this bill, compensation is to be limited to 70% the property damage suffered less the equivalent of the non-refundable aid granted to the economic operator during the covid period. And so you need to see this project as a project limiting possible claims led by entrepreneurs. He does not create a new path of obtaining such compensation, he uses those solutions that are already available, which exist in our law. However, the most important element of this project is the reduction in the amount of compensation that entrepreneurs could demand. That's the first important point. We have not heard in this debate why this reduction is 70%. 'Cause maybe it should be 50%. , or maybe it should be 80% ? We do not know what the applicants and committees were guided by, making such a proposal as they used their calculations and what is the reason for this limitation. Well, that limit is entered. Nevertheless, it is worth answering the question: and what entrepreneurs, according to this law, would receive these compensations? We read in the OSR in the statement of compensation, that the forecast cost of this bill is PLN 40 billion, of which PLN 22 billion are to go to the shopping gallery, to the owners of the shopping gallery, PLN 7 billion to the housing and catering industry, PLN 4 billion to the sports and recreation industry. The other industries are going to get 7 billion zlotys. So out of this amount of PLN 40 billion, the amount of PLN 22 billion is to go to the owners of the shopping gallery. Is that the intention of the applicants for this bill? But she's written down. I read the OSR. I'm skipping out on these scandalous and demeaning senate speeches, insulting people who can't defend themselves in this courtroom... But it is worth asking yourself: What is the purpose of this noise? This blubbering serves to conceal the real intention of this law. It is intended to constitute a restriction and is intended to constitute a grant for the owners of the shopping gallery. But it is worth recalling how the Law and Justice government reacted to this unprecedented crisis as part of its shields. Since World War II in Poland, we have not encountered such a huge disturbance in the functioning of our economy. This is a major disorder, but given the situation of other countries, we can say that thanks to efficiency, thanks to the measures taken, Poland has passed through this flood with a relatively dry leg. GDP drop by 2.8% , the decline in budget income... Let me remind you that we designed a deficit of 109 billion for 2020 and this deficit was less than PLN 25 billion. 6.5 million jobs were saved and over 183 billion went to the Polish economy. All of this needs to be seen by talking about a proposed law which under the slogans of aid to entrepreneurs is intended to limit the possibility of seeking compensation and which is to redirect the money from our budget to a specific group of entrepreneurs, which is not at all the group that needs help most. Finally, because we are talking about expenditure of PLN 40 billion here, we have to ask ourselves: well, we have adopted a budget for this year, so from which item of this budget will these 40 billion be shifted? The Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy participated in the drafting of this bill. I don't know if I'm supposed to congratulate you on this project. However, it may be necessary to have a longer reflection in these committees on the records and consequences of such a law. Perhaps the committees had not spent enough time on this and maybe the group was not appropriate. So I would like to make a formal request to your marshals that you pass this bill to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances in order to give an opinion and prepare a report by this committee, because this law has a huge, significant financial impact, and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which I am Vice-President, has not dealt with this project. So this is a formal application I want to make. At the same time, I would like to appeal for reflection and careful consideration of the reasons which support the adoption of this bill with such records as I have pointed out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u74	Thank you very much. I understand that the senator has made a formal application under Art. 48 (1) (a) 2. Yes? [[Yes, sir.]] Is anybody... [[Me with the performance...]] But Senator Bierecki has made a formal application, and we therefore need to deal with this proposal now. I object to this conclusion. This is a formal request to refer the bill to the committee. I object to this, and we will therefore vote on this formal proposal in a normal manner. I'm ordering a five-minute technical recess so that you can proceed with the formal application submitted by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 46 to 12 minutes 51]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Senator Grzegorz Bierecki submitted an application before the announcement of the break... [[If I may...]] Now, wait a minute, Mr. Senator. ...submitted a formal request to refer this project back to the committee. Did the senator come forward or... [[If I may...]] [[Voice from the room: But in what form?]] But in what form... in what mode? [[Justification for the formal application.]] You wanted to justify the motion? [[Yes, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u75	Because most of the senators in this room at the moment didn't hear me file this motion... [[Voice from the hall: She heard, she heard...]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: She heard.]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Everyone heard.]] But I'd like it to resound. This bill, the draft of this law, has a significant financial impact, calculated in the OSR at PLN 40 billion. Hence, it was my proposal to refer this project to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, as the Act will not only have such effects, but will also raise doubts as to whether the aid under this law will be directed to those entrepreneurs who need it. We've heard a lot about the sports and recreation industry here. She's only getting $4 billion out of that $40 billion, and maybe she should get more. But what's important is that this bill is going to be a relief bill for the owners of the shopping gallery, because out of these 40 billion, 22 billion are going to be allocated to the owners of the shopping gallery. Therefore, my proposal to your marshal that the committees should reconvene, in an extended composition, 2 committees plus the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and rethink this project not only in terms of budget resources but also in terms of the structure of grants or compensations... I apologise for the funds that will be transferred to the various industries. In my view, the allocation of over half of PLN 40 billion, PLN 22 billion to the owners of the shopping gallery is not the right policy and should not be supported by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Opposite.]] And I was against that conclusion before the recess. The senator will give the reasons for the opposite opinion. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote against this proposal is not true what Senator Bierecki said. Firstly, the amounts of compensation recorded in the OSR are 40 billion, but less the amount of State aid granted. But the second thing is more important. The senator is about to vote against his own motion... Because that money doesn't go to the owners of the mall. They're going to the people in the shopping galleries... It's just that the senator doesn't have the ability to read OSR. [[Voice from the room: Understanding.]] According to this provision, this money will go to those who carry out commercial, service and any other activity in shopping galleries. This money goes to a shoemaker who runs a small bet in a gallery, two college girls who sell ice cream at an island in a gallery... [[The shoemaker in the gallery?]] Yes, there are service points, Mr. Marshal. ...and to the owners of small shops. It's money for those who have been fighting for survival for months because you've closed down their shopping malls. That is why I am convinced that we will unanimously reject this proposal, because it is simply due to a lack of ability to read the impact assessment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u78	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a vote... [[In corrigendum mode.]] I'm in charge of the vote now. [[In corrigendum mode.]] There you go... [[There's no correction mode.]] But it's just a matter of justification for the motion, Senator. I'm gonna need you to stay where you are. [[I don't have a card.]] [[What card?]] But the senator has a card to vote on? [[Just ask the legislator what it means to record commercial galeries. Mr. Senator, that's all you had to do.]] [[But there's no discussion, Mrs. Marshal.]] Does the senator have his ballot? [[I don't have a ballot.]] [[Voice from the room: Please.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[The discussion is over.]] Two sentences out of place, please. [[We're voting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u79	Senator Kwiatkowski's speech further justifies the need to reflect on this, because this shoemaker, these ladies who run the ice cream shop, has been covered with shields that we have already adopted in this House. [[A voice from the room: Well, they won't get it.]] And those who were certainly not shielded and who were directly excluded from this were the owners of the shopping gallery, Mr. Senator. I can read OSR, and I understand the consequences. I think the rush you're proposing in this courtroom to give to someone is not due to procedure, but to intent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u80	The discussion on the justification of the proposal is closed. I'm calling a vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of passing the bill to the Joint Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance? Raise your hand and press the button. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm reporting a technical error in my chart.]] Can you please... [[Voice from the room: You have to put the card in well.]] [[It's okay.]] Is it okay? Raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: But who?]] Who is in favour of the formal request by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to refer him to the bill committee? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: Morawiecki does galleries...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr Morawiecki...]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted, 43 for the proposal, 47 against the proposal, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 8]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the motion has not been filed. We will continue the discussion on this. Senator Marcin Bosacki, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am encouraged and provoked by the words of Marshal Marek Pęka 10 minutes ago in this Chamber, which I quote, he accused the senators of the democratic majority of the lie and said that he would not allow it. I very much regret that there is no Marshal Pęka, but I want to tell him that, first of all, he does not determine what is true, and he has no right to lie to the senators of the democratic majority, because everything that the senators have said, starting with Senator Kwiatkowski, the author of this project, through the Senators of the Civic Coalition and the Left, is true. The Polish government has given many times less support to closed-off companies than the rest of Europe, 19 times less than Germany, 11 times less than the United Kingdom, 8 times less than France, etc., etc. The Senate almost a year ago, 11 months ago wanted more compensation for closed companies, but adopted by the High Senate, good for Polish companies bill projects are not for many months, some already almost 11 months, adopted or even considered by the Sejm It's all true. Of course, Mr. Marshal Pęk has the right to even the most original opinions, to the opinion that this government is dealing with a pandemic, to the opinion that this government is helping entrepreneurs, or to the opinion that this government is managing Poland well at all. However, I have two messages for the honorable, absent Marshal Pop. Firstly, they disagree with his opinions Poles, their majority, the growing majority. Secondly, he will not be in this House where everyone has a free mandate, telling other senators that he will not allow anything they say. The Senate is free here and you, Mr. Marshal Pęk, have no right to say such things to your fellow senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Also provoked by the speeches of Marshal Pęk and Mr Bierecki, I decided to take the floor. I'll surprise the marshal. I appreciate the government's work. I'm not saying the government's acting maliciously. Or wrong, contrary to the interests of Poland, only that he makes a lot of mistakes. But I wouldn't go that far and say that it works to the detriment of Poles consciously. Like I said, he makes a lot of mistakes. I would also like to point out that I appreciate the work of the Minister of Health, who is trying to find some of the best solutions. I don't know if there's a need here in the Senate for all the nasty things that happen here. We should discuss the draft law in substance, not insult each other. As for the project itself, let me remind you that the project came out of the Wheel of Independent Senators. We thought he was the least political as he could be, and we thought it would be easier to get the majority without getting into such serious political disputes. And a word of comment on Senator Bierecki's statement. I have the impression that many economists, especially those who should know, are wrong about income. Many Poles listen to us, listen to this argument and they think that it is really so that we want to transfer money from the budget to entrepreneurs who earn less. No, we want to hand them over to entrepreneurs so they can survive this crisis and continue to function. As he rightly pointed out here, if I'm not mistaken, Senator Jackowski, if anyone runs a gym, then not only does he have no income in terms of making money, but... 'Cause if he's got leases or liabilities due to rentals, etc... You have to understand that. We thought that people who had been in business so far, and that's what I think of Senator Bierecki, should know about it. Many charges were related to demagogy. I don't know how much demagogue is on the opposition side, but there was a lot of demagogy on the side of people who spoke from the government. I can't listen anymore, ladies and gentlemen, about 6.5 million saved jobs. Who saved these jobs? They're entrepreneurs, they're people who fight for survival every day, they don't fire their employees, sometimes at the expense of their entire lives, because they sell their own assets to keep these jobs. The government saved six and a half million jobs... Well, you just can't listen to it anymore. The government of course helps, the government has allocated money, according to its key, for example for local governments, according to the 500+ key. There's money addressed to entrepreneurs, whether it's to local governments and no one's questioning it, but we think that this money is not addressed well and you can just do it better. Senator Bierecki is talking about PLN 183 billion that went into the economy. I'd like to ask if it's government money, if it's money that, thanks to a good financial economy, when the economy was in business, was put away somewhere, and today the government is giving away the money. Mr. Senator, maybe it's credit money, which we'll all have to pay back, especially young generations? Where did these 183 billion dollars come from? It's credit money. The deficit of the state is growing in a frightening way, but I understand that there is a pandemic, that money has to be committed, and that money has to be handed over, just like the 40 billion less aid that Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about. And we know that. But stop practicing demagogy and say that the Polish economy is only doing well and only thanks to the government's actions, because it is also important to remember the fact that some economies are doing better, some worse, and the specificity of the Polish economy is that we are easier to deal with this crisis, and that is all. So the less demagogy, the better. As for this aid, which I have heard so much about today from the mouths of representatives of the governing option, it must be recalled that in addition to the money that actually comes out of commitments to entrepreneurs... Well, at the same time, the government will charge entrepreneurs with the introduction of 31 new danins and taxes. So on the one hand, there's money, as I say, from credit, and on the other hand there's tributes that are supposed to fund the state budget. And last but one thing. I'd like to join Senator Kwiatkowski's words. Mr. Senator Bierecki, when it comes to the 40 billion PLN and the money that will be directed to the gallery, this money will not be directed to the gallery owners, as you presented it, but to the people who run their businesses in these galleries, small, larger, but businesses, through the gallery owners, because they account for each other. To sum up, I want to say that I will definitely be behind this bill, such a bill is needed, expected by Polish entrepreneurs and that is why I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator, Mr. Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I, in the second part of my speech, would like to refer only to the very fiery speech by Marshal Pęk, in which he accused us of lying. I, being a man of humility Although sometimes I don't seem like that. I immediately looked through what I said, and I found at least an inaccuracies for which I would like to apologize. In my speech, I said that with the permission of the PIS, the PiS government, they were scandalously paid EUR 120 million and transported to Luxembourg. I'm sorry, that's what they brought them to Liechtenstein, because Liechtenstein's tax laws are just better and it was better to get them to Liechtenstein than Luxembourg. I'm simplifying this, but I'd like to make it clear that we remember this... We remember that, Prime Minister Szydło, Prime Minister Morawiecki, Mr Gliński. We remember that your one-time decision spent EUR 120 million from the Polish state's budget and allowed this EUR 120 million to be exported from Poland for the painting of the lady with the weasel, which belongs to the Polish nation, because the Czartorys bought it for the sweat and blood of Polish peasants who worked on them. And the fact that you today, without money for Polish entrepreneurs, have money for Polish magnates, so many years after the abolition of the country, calls for vengeance to heaven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And Dear Visitors! I will try to address you only so that you can possibly pass on the evaluations, more differentiated, from this debate. The first question is what just got some people so upset. Well, in the OSR that we have here, we also count the revenue of the owners from the rented area. It's written in black and white. So you can argue about what they are exactly, in what proportion or well counted, but they certainly are. And that's why, among other things. Every previous speaker referred to Senator Bierecki. Well, that really changes things a little bit when it comes to why this bill is going to be passed. No problem, you could take some categories out of it, couldn't you? That's the first line. Line two. I've been working here for a second term, I've seen a lot, I've seen a lot of things that, well, are a certain theater, so to speak. Especially at the interface of the Senate, in this term of office controlled by the opposition, and by local authorities, this time not entrepreneurs. Well, there's a problem. In order to deal with this problem effectively, it is usually necessary to simply sit down and discuss it properly. There's a special body, a joint committee of local government and government. But you don't do it there, because that would just require a substantive discussion, but here's where the project is being introduced, here are the demagogical speeches... Because what the Czartorys have to do with your problems, I don't know. Maybe there's a causal link. I'd love to hear about him. If you don't know what you're talking about, you're talking about the Czartoryskis. Then the project is adopted, those who brought it in pin a beautiful medal on themselves, the self-governments usually sit there, not where you are now. They're happy, they're smiling, they're dusers, and so on. And that's it. You will mention my words. If this project is pushed into the Sejm without real discussion of it, that's how it ends. This is how it's gonna end. You guys are gonna get out of this room tonight, and there's gonna be medals here, talking about how we're fighting this... It's best to fight for someone else's money if you don't take responsibility. It's best to share someone else's money. And the effect will be zero for you. Because in order to achieve a good result, you just have to sit down with the ones who have the money, i.e. they have the money. They don't have it because it's a bad saying. Those who rule the money... Money is governed by the constitution of the government, has a monopoly on the draft budget, all the budget changes. Well, that's just it, and it's in every country. And if you want to talk seriously about your problems, it's with the government. There are government representatives here. Use it. Maybe not government representatives, one of the resorts, but one of the leading resorts, let's be tight. What makes you think this is really about chasing a bunny instead of catching it? It's very simple: from the comparison of the original project I've been trying to explain it here in some way in my questions. And the one we're dealing with, which is the overworked project. The original project referred to property losses. In the secondary project... I mean, not secondary, but the final project we're dealing with, we're talking about property damage. Losses are always less than damage, always, because loss is one part of damage. It can't be a part bigger than the whole thing. It's a fundamental question of logic. Someone's gonna say, "Oh, well, that's only 70%." The way it's gonna be and what's gonna be proven in court, how it's gonna end at some point in the courtroom... We're not gonna be the ones who decide these percentages. If anything, it's the courts. This is an illusory law that we're given here. Because the hardest thing to prove in court... And it is you entrepreneurs, if you wish to exercise this right, you will have to prove the lost benefits before the court, because property damage is loss and lost benefits. How can you prove the lost benefits? Did you have a customer register before the pandemic? Because you have to give some differences, what was before, and what was after. Well, think about it. And if you prove that 80% customers who did not use your services, regardless of what kind They're services, they didn't use them because you forbade them to? Or maybe they just didn't want to come to the place themselves because they were just afraid of pandemics, infections? There's evidence on you, so how are you gonna do that? Or maybe it's better to talk to the government and without proof, without dragging yourself into court to prove that you've actually suffered damage. 'Cause you've been hurt. But yours may not be as many industries as the government didn't take into account? I don't know why it happened. It could be just a human error. Talk to the government. Create a temporary committee like the government committee. The government, this time it's the government committee. Entrepreneurs. This bill won't give you anything. It's an illusion. I mean, the bill... This project is an illusion, he won't be a law at all, just to be clear. There's a negative opinion on one of the resorts. Can you imagine what the opinion of the Ministry of Finance would be at these costs? He's just gonna pull it out of his pocket, put $40 billion in bagatela? Well, let's say a simple, obvious text. Now, so it's not just beletristics, some recipes. There was a charge here that the Minister... sorry, come back, the Prime Minister of the Government referred the case to the Constitutional Court. Indeed, a judgment in this regard is essential. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to read you an article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution as the basis: Everyone has the right to compensation for the damage that has been done to him And now, here's the thing. By unlawful action by a public authority. It's against the law. There are three categories of this. What's this all about? That's what the relevant civil code articles are talking about. It's against the law. There's something like that here. This is actually a case where a lower order act is inconsistent with a higher order act. We'll get to that in a minute. Second, it's illegal... Oh, that first point is about Article. 4171 §1. The second category is illegal. This, in short, decisions, may be the actual actions of some authorities, which are referred to in §2. And finally, thirdly, it's omissions, because they may also be unlawful, which is not acting when it is required. . §3. In all 3 paragraphs of this Article. 4171, which speaks of the responsibility of the State, is one condition: the examination of the incompatibility of the act with the Constitution. And this condition is introduced Okay, here's the Not by Prime Minister Morawiecki, not by the mean PiS, but by the amendment of the Civil Code in June 2004. There is one case where it is not necessary to examine whether this action was contrary to the Constitution as an exception. This is the case when the damage is on the person, i.e. it is not a damage to the business, but it can be, for example. Some kind of health hazard. Then you really don't need to study compliance with the Constitution, compensation shall be granted and the legal act shall not be examined. 4172. Back to basics. If the Prime Minister asked to examine the constitutionality of these articles, as I say, introduced in 2004, he is doing you better, because it will already be shown. And either you're not going to take any senseless action because it's going to end with this study, or if it turns out that these articles are constitutional... Well, actually, it's the other way around. I don't want to complicate things here anymore. It may be that they prove to be constitutional, and then your actions will be simply, as I said, meaningless. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] But it could be that they're against the constitution. Well, that's a possibility. [[Voice from the courtroom: Court...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I think time is up.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time...]] Yes. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: 10 minutes.]] There will also be time for the Court. I'm summing up my thought. Please answer, not me, actually, but inside yourself, in your conscience. What really is the point of the project's creators. What are you trying to accomplish? You just want to act, run your business. You've been harmed, but not by the government, but by a pandemic. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] And now here's how to achieve the opportunity... It's not about digging with the government, it's not about getting compensation, it's about getting the right one, in many cases the right one, the equivalent for what the pandemic has done to us as people, but also to our economy. It's not that way, it's really not that way. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Of course you can go further, but there is always a checking element here. This checking element is time. None of us can control that. After some time, we'll see what happened to this project, whether the road you've chosen 'Cause of course you're gonna support that, 'cause these people are gonna get medals 'cause they were really effective and beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There's been a lot of different arguments here. Very briefly, I will refer to the ones that were most important. You suggested that this law is not in the interest of Polish entrepreneurs. It's absolutely in their best interest. I didn't want to use this argument earlier, but since someone here is suggesting that these laws are proposed in the name of some foreign interests, foreign capital, I will ask the simplest question. Why did all the casinos in Poland continue to operate after you took away the business opportunities of all small businesses? Casinos in Poland run, among others. Olympic Group, the largest casino operator in the region. This is Estonian capital. Sales revenue in the first half of 2015 s are the last publicly available data It amounted to EUR 81 million. A year-to-year increase of almost EUR 10 million has taken place here. A year earlier, the operating profit was EUR 12 million 600 000, after a year of EUR 14.5 million. In whose interest do you make these decisions? In whose interest did you allow that according to phytosanitary requirements it was impossible to enter the service point, and it was possible to lean in with 20 people above the roulette? In the interest of foreign capital. I personally am not against him. In Poland, all those who respect Polish regulations respect the Polish employee can invest, act in accordance with the law. But if you're suggesting that the rule on which the Senate is working is proposed in the name of some more indeterminate business, then you won't run away from the questions, in the name of whose interests you've been keeping the casinos running. I repeat that a large part of these casinos are foreign capital casinos. Another argument in this Chamber was that the budget could not afford it. Again, I'm not talking about absolute numbers. If I give you absolute numbers, then of course someone will say that those countries are richer. But we are talking about expenditure incurred, expenditure planned as public support in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in relation to GDP, taking into account differences in the size of countries and differences in the level of economic development. Yeah, we're still not as rich as the Germans. or France. This help in Poland is 13% GDP, Germany Nearly 40%, in the UK More than 30%, in France 23.5%. I really encourage... Each of you can read the opinion of Prof. Krajewski, who compared public, public, publicly available data on public aid to the economic sphere. We can discuss, but let's discuss facts, not some kind of creation closer to indescribable reality. I don't represent any other business. I worry about the fact that in Poland there are 2 million 80,000 companies, of which 96% are micro companies. Their share of GDP, even though they represent 96%, is about 30%. And that coefficient is dropping. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That this example shoemaker, which in the spring could use help, and then could or could not, because the shoemaker is a contractual... The only way he could've done it was when he hit the lottery and typed the main PKD well. He's not sitting on Bajonnian sums. He has no capital, no financial cushion. His income from his business activity is often lower than his average salary. I did my own business in the early 1990s. I would really wish those who speak on this issue and who seem to have the prospect of large companies, registered in tax havens, to see what it means to fight for their business every day. Ladies and gentlemen, will they be able to benefit from this solution? Of course they'll be able to benefit. Why? I do not agree with the philosophy presented by my previous speaker, which I will quote, because I specifically noted it, he said exactly this: some categories of entities could be removed from this project so that they would not benefit from the aid. We're not getting anything out. This bill is addressed to everyone. Philosophy that they are better and worse is the worst possible philosophy. We don't want to give anything discretionaryly. We want everyone who actually has a loss, who actually has a decrease in income, who actually could not operate, to benefit from this aid. We won't be helping our own. We help all those who meet the formal requirement. Talking to the government, why are you talking to parliament? It is a puriazum. Parliament is creating legislation. The government is an executive which operates on the basis of the rules adopted by Parliament. Honestly, I'm embarrassed... If a parliamentarian says between the lines: we have nothing to say, talk to the government... We do. This is where the law is made. In the Seym and the Senate, in the Chambers of the Polish Parliament. It is worth taking note of and not depreciating the parliament you are a member of. Ladies and gentlemen, one more argument that emerged here during this discussion is the last one. This is an argument that says that we face challenges that require national unity. Absolutely. For my part, it has been, is and will always be emphasized a declaration: I am interested in solving problems, not who comes with this solution. And even though I was preparing this project with you, as it was said in this room by Marshal Borowski Let the government report him as their own. To me, it's completely uninteresting what political stamp this project will be with. I am interested in the fact that thousands of Poles and Poles who sometimes really fight each day to keep their micro- and single-person business activity, finally know that the Polish state, the Polish parliament, the Polish Senate, and also the Polish government takes them seriously, treats them honestly. And he does not choose the better and the worse, but introduces clear, clear, transparent regulations, according to which the help will be given to anyone who qualifies, not the one who is right or righter and who likes power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record... [[If there is any further discussion, Mrs. Marshal... just a corrigendum.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u91	One sentence. That's an à about that last speech. Art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 Constitution: The increase of expenditure or the reduction of revenue planned by the Council of Ministers shall not result in the Sejm setting a greater budget deficit than that provided for in the draft budget law. And further: the legislative initiative on the budget law is exclusive to the Council of Ministers. I understand that this project isn't just free. There's 40 million in OSR, no one knows how it's calculated. Is it clear that the Council of Ministers must be involved in this, Senator Kwiatkowski? I don't know if I can still correct...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u92	There you go. And that's gonna be the last sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u93	Mr Senator, as everyone knows, if Parliament is preparing a bill that introduces budget expenditure, this is equivalent to the need for a statutory revision of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u94	Thank you very much. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Halina Bieda, Benjamin Godyla, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Joanna Sekuła presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much for attending the Senate meeting. And let's move on to the next item on the agenda. We begin to consider item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the threat of media freedom in Poland. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 324, and the report in print No 324 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We're talking again. At this meeting for the first time, but not for the first time in this term of office The media, the threats to the media, the freedom of the media, the importance of the media for freedom and human rights. Free media is the foundation of democracy and the Senate cannot stand indifferent to the situation of restricting fundamental civil liberties. The next steps of the Polish authorities are moving towards regulation, as it was written in the project, and restricting access to information. Predicted taxes, or actually a racket from the media, previous attempts so-called. Repolonisation, the ownership of public media, the buy-out by the fuel company of the press group is nothing more than a Hungarian road. And there the last independent radio has just been decommissioned and it goes online. And we are now following the Hungarian road, the Orbán road. But the draft resolution, which I am privileged to present to you today, is not just about money, it is not just about taxes. It is a consequence of the presence of the Senate in defence of the media in Poland and their independence. I would therefore like to recall the initiatives of the cultural committee in this area during this term of office. I would like to remind you that in February 2020 the Committee of Culture took a position on the right to reliable information and public media. This concerned public media and it was our call to the authorities and public media workers to restore integrity in information programmes. After a thorough analysis of the situation with the participation of experts, we talked about replacing objective and diverse information opinions with messages that value and favour the interests of the governing party only. That was the committee's position. Later we held meetings with experts, discussions were held. Discussions also took place in the media in Poland and in Polish homes, because television and public media were always worthwhile until they were destroyed and destroyed by the current power. Let me remind you that the Committee on Culture has taken the initiative to liquidate the National Media Council, which is not a constitutional body. It is an institution that does not protect the integrity of the media. Nor does the constitutional body which was appointed to do this, the National Radio and Television Council, fulfil this task. Our initiative, i.e. the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 4 June 2020 on the role of public media in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, was also the last point, extremely important, concerning public media. We called on TV then, we appealed to the government, we called on the authorities not to abuse the media in the pursuit of the interests of one party and to ensure objectivity of the message and equality in media access to all political forces during the election campaign. This also met with actually zero response. I would even say that the public media were so biased during the presidential campaign that, according to the OSCE, recent elections were unfair. This was precisely because of the involvement of public media on one side, on the side of one candidate. If these media were just engaging on the side of one candidate, it would still be a small problem, but even worse, they were attacking all the other candidates. This is television, which not only broadcasts a party message, gives a message to the ruling group, but also attacks other groups and squeals at people, as we have talked about here many times. In a situation where there are virtually no objective public media, when viewers in a large part of the country have been deprived of access to reliable media at all, the state is starting another attack on free media. The authorities say: we already have public media, but we don't have everything yet, so we're on to the other media at the moment, the independent ones, the ones that still work and try to maintain the principles of reliable journalism and provide reliable information. And the media has been, so to speak, attacked by taxes today. Previously, the fuel company bought out the entire large press group and this group was influenced by the government company. We have come to a situation where another step has been taken, a fiscal step. There is fiscalisation, additional charges for independent media. These additional charges will hit not only large known media, well-known television and groups, but will also hit local media, such as are single-person companies and somehow operate there. The notabene state has not yet undertaken For this government Nor does it take any action to strengthen the diversity and freedom of the media. That is why we are presenting this draft resolution. That is why we are solidarity with the protest of the media without a choice, which is a protest that I do not remember from the history of Poland, but also I do not think that modern democracy knows such a protest, I do not recall that something like this would happen. This media protest, which we have witnessed, has echoed widely worldwide, and I think it is also in the interest of the European Union. I hope we can expect it. We see it at our posts. That Poland will not remain alone here. We have also really brought Hungary back, and the European Union has missed this issue, and now it is coming back to this and we will talk about it. I remember that when we talked about public media, it was from the Law and Justice, from this side of the room there were no more arguments, because there was actually nothing left to defend, and these discussions were such that a large part of the state had already given up defending public media, because there was nothing left to defend. First of all, because of the scandalous, embarrassing level of what is currently happening in public media in Poland. And as I say, we have this next step right now. Allow me to read the content of this draft resolution and then we will proceed with the discussion. The draft resolution on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland was discussed on 16 February at a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media and we have adopted this proposal, and now we are submitting this proposal to the High House. The draft resolution is short and I will now read it in its entirety. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland strongly opposes the restriction of freedom and civil rights of Poles and Poles through actions of the government of the Republic of Poland aimed at eliminating independent media. The planned new media fee will result in a massive weakening of independent media Of which local and regional The financial basis for the operation of which is advertising revenue and at the same time strengthens the privileged position of state media supported by State funds. This is another one after the acquisition by the state-owned oil company of an independent press group. It is part of the process of destroying free media and subjecting them to the current interests of power. This is contrary to the Polish state and interests of citizens whose right is access to diverse and reliable sources of knowledge. In the past, Poles were repeatedly forced to organize an alternative circulation of information, and one of the important demands of August was the abolition of censorship. The concept of freedom is clearly identified by us with freedom of speech By us, Poles. Unfortunately, today, Poland is approaching at a dangerous pace to the model of the country with the rule of law, which is governed by the law of information. We support the unprecedented protest of publishers and journalists, media without choice. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, supported by a large part of civil society, does not and will not agree to restrict freedom of expression and increase distance to the family of democratic states. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you so much for your attention. If there's any questions, I'll answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. That's right, stay. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u97	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think we are all in favour of media freedom, although your project is based, in my opinion, on lying assumptions. But for starters, I'm gonna ask you a few questions. First, the question about the third paragraph. You wrote in the project: "It's another "after the acquisition by the state-owned fuel company of an independent press group'. It is part of the process of destroying free media. You write: "This is contrary to the Polish state and the interests of citizens. So you're referring here, as Senator rapporteur... You refer to the situation that the state-owned company PKN Orlen purchased Poland Press, one of the largest publishers in Poland, from the German Verlagsgruppe Passau Capital Group. And I have a question for the senator. Do you, as one of them? the applicant considers that the Polish state's reason is that the largest media entity in Poland is a German entity? Is this, as you have written down, consistent with the Polish state and the interests of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u98	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u99	Thank you so much for that question. Dear Senator, I would like to tell you that the free word has no nationality, and the right to free speech has no national contexts either. We have seen many times, comparing public media with media published by companies, which were owned by mixed international companies, that it was in those media that we could expect to obtain reliable information, diverse, not only reliable, but also diverse, with different points of view. And there seemed to be some kind of comparison with public television. So if we are talking about the Polish state right, let's think about what the Polish state right is. In my opinion, in the opinion of the authors of this draft resolution and of all those who supported it, the Polish reason for the state is freedom of speech. Polish citizen has the right to freedom of speech, access to this freedom. And the buy-out at the moment by a government company... That's what this is all about. It's not that it's some other company, because it could have been some foreign-owned company. It's just that it's a government concern and that this whole regional press group is going to be in subjection to the government right now. This is about a process that is progressing in Poland and which is hard to miss, and which leads to what happened in Hungary, Mr. Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u100	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u101	Thank you very much, Marshal. Yeah, I agree with the senator that it's a government entity, a government company, of course the government... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, but you wanted to ask.]] ...the Republic of Poland. I'd like to ask you a second paragraph, if I may. 'Cause I see there's just a certain ignorance of the fee project that's been sent... Where are small entities mentioned in the advertising tax project for pre-consultation? Because the State in the second paragraph states that the planned new media charge will result in a massive weakening of independent media, including local and regional media, i.e. the smallest ones, and as far as I know, it does not in fact concern these entities. At least that's the idea of the project. These entities are not subject to this advertising tax. Why do you write here just not true?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u102	Dear Senator, I don't really understand. Where does it say in the draft resolution that we are referring to a project? [[The planned new media fee...]] Excuse me, please... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, you asked a question, so let the senator answer.]] There's no word here about any project, because we're not referring to a particular project. What it says... It's clearly written: a new media fee. However, we can refer to the statements of the authorities on what will be found in this project. And as you well know, the project is still in some kind of consultation, so far it's hanging somewhere, anyway it's not in the Sejm. So we can't talk about a particular project. However, we could listen to the Prime Minister's words, who said what would be in it, and the Prime Minister made it clear about the media fee. And we heard clearly what it was meant to be for, but then it was completely changed. And that's why it's written in this draft resolution. The point is that we should not address specific issues, but some possibilities that may arise. And I assure you, Senator... You can say you won't. As you said earlier, the acquisition of public media by the State will not mean the situation that we have. And what we have is what you know. And you know very well that you have said that the mere fact of legal changes in public media does not mean that the rulers are taking over. And there has been this embezzlement by the rulers, there are appropriate reports and studies here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u104	Thank you very much. I have three questions, but before I start asking, I would like to draw the attention of the Senator rapporteur to the quite dwarf thesis you have made. It is basically a matter of saying that the German concern is the guardian of freedom of speech in Poland. [[I didn't say anything like that, but...]] You said it. That's how he was... [[Please ask questions, questions, Senator.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please, Mr. Senator, ask questions.]] Here's the question. Has the committee been informed during the work on this project that the German company to which the project has been referring for a long time, for at least two years, has been looking for the buyer of these assets? This is the first case. And I would therefore like to ask one more question: if the Polish company is the wrong buyer, who, according to your rapporteur, should have bought these assets? Who should have bought it from them if they wanted to sell it? Second question. Can you name the countries of the European Union where it has been adopted and there is such an advertising fee? Finally, the third question. Can you tell me how many of the applicants of this draft resolution on the threat of media freedom have already signed? And the senator, too. Under the draft Act on the Elimination of Public Television Information Programs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u105	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u106	Thank you very much. I don't know if I'm supposed to answer the questions you're asking me as... well, who? Whether or not I signed up for a project is my personal business, but I'm telling you, yes, I signed up. But I don't think that's at the moment under discussion. So let's get back to... [[I'll ask...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please, Mr. Senator...]] Let's get back to the discussion. I have the right to sign whatever I want, but that's not what we're talking about. As to whether the committee was informed about the German concern, etc., etc. We didn't talk about it, Mr. Senator, because it wasn't the subject of our discussion. If you read paragraph 2 carefully... Excuse me, if you read the draft resolution carefully, you'll know that we are referring to a certain process and we're paying attention to certain risks that may occur and which are kind of the case in Hungary. We note that we already have this kind of situation. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting. But we didn't talk about what company it was bought from, who... And the problem. I'm gonna say it again. Wasn't it, or... No. The problem is, Mr. Senator, that this is another element of the media subject to power, the ruler. That's the problem. [[I'd like to ask...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, but first let me...]] [[I'll ask...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka:... answer the senator, and then at the most you will ask, how do you think the answer does not satisfy you well? We're dating like this.]] As far as European countries are concerned, there are completely different systems of fees and taxes in different countries. Also in Poland there are taxes and charges that Polish media companies are charged with. So that I do not know what your question is going to be, because we are not writing here... we are not referring to European countries on the issue of taxation. This was also not discussed at the meeting of the cultural committee. [[I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u107	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u108	Because that's the question I asked you... So if it wasn't for the state group to buy it, who in the opinion of the applicants and the committee that proposed this resolution? Who's gonna buy this? If the company had bought it, for example, a related company. with Russian capital or e.g. With Turkish capital, would that be the right solution for you? Did you then... Is it just that the buyer is a Polish entity and a state company?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u109	No, we don't mean at all that it's a Polish entity. All we're saying is that it's a government-dependent entity. [[Uh-huh. So if it was bought by a Russian subject, that wouldn't be a problem?]] Probably... [[He would depend on the same government...]] [[Well, not all companies in Russia are...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Mr. Senator, we're not gonna... [[... government property.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Mr. Senator, we're not at this stage yet, but perhaps we will soon. There's a reason we're calling Hungary here. Look at the Hungarian situation. Please also see who is sometimes behind the capital that takes over the media in Hungary. I want you to familiarize yourself with this, too. But I don't want to go on about it because that's not what this project is about. [[Yeah, but...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] [[...my question, which I didn't get the answer to...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] [[...Mrs. Marshal, it was a request to list the countries in the European Union where there is a tax on advertising.]] I don't know what... [[It is the same solution as that which is the subject of consultation. Which countries does it exist in? Does the committee have any knowledge about this?]] No, we haven't talked about this at all. [[Haven't they talked about it?]] No, we haven't. [[It's...]] We've been talking about media freedom, Mr. Senator. [[Okay. And without consciousness...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u110	Thank you very much. [[...you refer to the design fee...]] Thank you very much. [[...without that information. Thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator, but please... The discussion will take place, so you will be able to speak in the discussion. I ask you to ask Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u111	My dear Miss Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, rapporteur. The draft resolution is written in such a rather catastrophic tone. It even refers to the times of the Polish People's Republic. It is difficult to determine what is behind the word "independent media." However, it seems that if they are critical of the government, they may be considered to have some degree of independence. At the moment, we have Internet portals critical of the government... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, but please ask a question.]] Yeah, yeah, I'm going to ask you a question, but it won't be understandable if I don't put in some content. We have web portals critical to the government: Interia, Onet, Virtualna Polska. We have national radios, RMF and ZET Radio, critical of the government. We have 2 powerful media companies with 24/7 news broadcasts critical to the government: Polsat and TVN. We have the journals: Rzeczpospolita, Gazeta Wyborcza, Newsweek, Rzeczpospolita. They are all critical of the government. This, I think, ensures the independence of the information system. If the situation gets worse, it means that there have been even more critical media against the government in the past, and now this number is shrinking. Can you name at least three criticisms of the media government? I mentioned 10 in the times of the Platform and PSL government? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u112	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u113	I could think about and try to name such media, but I think that... I remember very well the critical materials in TVN, in Polsata, in politics, in the Review, also in the Rzeczpospolita and in the Gazeta Wyborcza. I remember critical materials very well. I remember very well the materials on public television, which were critical of what the government represented. Of course, in some media less, in others more, but there was no such media And I don't regret it at all. That would only speak well of the previous government. I don't recall anything like that. I would like to point out to the senator that we are referring to history, but not just to censorship. Here is a reference to Polish history at all. In Poland for years, when we did not have a free state, we had to apply a second circulation They were magazines that were outside the scope of censorship. And that's what happened. not only in the Polish People's Republic, it was the same During the occupation, the same was true during the partitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Rybicki... Excuse me, Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I agree with your view and thesis that the problem is not that some private or private company is buying a press company or some medium, but that this medium is buying a power-dependent entity. Would you agree with the idea that such practices are not happening in the West of Europe, where democracies with long-standing traditions are shaped, but in countries that we can call soft or hard... almost dictatorship, certainly something on the verge of authoritarian authority? It's about some degree. or even to a large extent Hungary. Here, the model for the current power can be a situation in Russia, where companies associated with power, oligarchs associated with Putin buy media or entire media companies, which are then indirectly subordinate to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u116	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u117	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Question Senator, it would certainly be possible to recall Russia here, although I must say that one can argue about how much there was of this free press in Russia at all, ever. Over the years of communism, the freedom of the press was so effectively choked, during the pierestroikas, these free media that were created, were very quickly subjected in some way... That doesn't mean there's no free media in Russia. However, it can be said at the moment that they are actually all somehow controlled by the State. We are also talking about Hungary and Hungary belongs to the European Union. And these are completely different countries. We could also talk about Belarus, where 2 young journalists were arrested and sent to the penal colony for 2 years, 2 young girls, for having the courage and courage to write the truth about what is happening in Belarus. [[Thank you...]] We were talking about this... I'm just gonna finish... [[Please.]] Freedom is fragile, ladies and gentlemen. For now, we're in a situation where we're going on the Hungarian road, and it's probably going to happen that the media will be completely subordinated to... it's going to be a matter of government influence, so to speak. I hope we don't go any further and it won't be as bad as it is in Belarus or Russia. But we are talking about it so loudly and, as Senator Sillyman said, in such a way already quite sharp this time, because we think that the situation requires it, and enough of this brazenness in the liquidation of Polish independent media.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u118	Thank you, Senator. Senator Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u119	Oh, I think we're hearing each other now. Yes. [[There you go.]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! As a person living on the Polish-German border, I am extremely sensitive to such rhetoric of scaring Germans, so I would like to ask a question. And it's extremely disgusting to be clear. These are our friends, not our enemies, because historically different actions and actions of different countries or governments can be viewed differently, but today they are our friends. I can't suffer when someone plays with such rhetoric, treating the Germans the way you want to treat them, let's say, 70 years ago. But I'm on my way to the question. Please tell me: was there any evidence that this German capital had any effect on the media that had been operating over the past years? After all, anyone who has a little bit of financial contact knows that capital is one thing, and reliable information is another and this is something completely different. Capital can be invested... There was even such a provocative question, if it were Russian... I don't know what would have happened if there was Russian capital. The question is whether the media are objective. So my question is, were there any signals...? I'm asking because I can see that nobody bothers with anything to drive German cars, but already German capital is bothering someone. Just like the Americans... Well, do you have any signals, Senator, that this American capital should also be eliminated from Poland and the American media should be taken over because it's a national business? Did you get those signals, too? So once again, I would like to stress that ownership is one thing... It's not like anyone forced Orlen to buy those media. If they were proposed somewhere on the market, it was announced that they could be bought, then they could be bought by any other entrepreneur, such as Polish, private, any other, because this is capital. However, capital and property must be distinguished from the integrity of these media. So I ask again: were there such signals that this German spirit, as it were, was superior to objectivity? Finally, I would just like to add that as a senator of the Republic of Poland in national, local media, on TVP3 Gorzów and on Radio West within a year I did not have the privilege of speaking to my constituents once. These are independent media, which are called Polish media. Thank you. [[Thank you very much, Mr...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u120	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u121	Yeah, I think it's like a lot of us or the vast majority of us sitting on this side of the room. Well, we're never, or rarely, invited to public media, and if anyone's invited, it looks like one of the last night's shows, that is, everyone on one, on that person who represents the opposition side. Yesterday I watched a Member of the Civic Platform screamed in a public medium by the whole group, but above all by the lead editor. It was so embarrassing that I switched to another program. I also saw a TVP3 editor who ran... editors who I can tell you. On their knees, they were literally on their knees interviewing the President of Poland, and even with senators, what we can observe on social media, how politely and culturally these interviews are conducted, sometimes without interruption, without what is happening to any opposition who will appear in the media. But I'll get back to the senator's important question. No, these kind of pressure signals didn't occur, and I don't recall situations like this when there was pressure. Let me put it this way: normally neither in the Western world nor in the United States, nor with us for years would anyone think of this kind of pressure, because we all know that in these groups, even the owners of which are some mixed foreign or German or American companies, Polish journalists work, that they write texts that they are employees and that they come to us with this message. It is not strange in Western democracy that international companies are, buy media in different countries and it does not cause any problems at all. You told the senator about the anti-German phobia. Please note that this phobia towards the Germans is probably caused by World War II. But it doesn't bother you anymore. The fact that a man of neofascist views is at the head of a state institution. I wrote a statement about that. It is outrageous that this German is seen in companies, in the ownership of companies, while there is no fascist or Nazi in Polish souls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u122	Thank you, Senator. Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, at the beginning, of course, I will agree with my previous speaker, who asked the question: Germany is our friends, now also partners primarily trade, who in internal statutory regulations ensure that in the media market foreign, German capital does not have more than 10%. property. That's the title of digression. I'm gonna go back to the senator's questions. We have already heard, Mrs Senator, with regard to the third paragraph, that from the Polish reason of the state it appears that there is a Polish reason for the state, when one of the biggest media entities in Poland is a German capital entity, and that, with regard to the second paragraph, as regards the planned new media charge on local and regional media, you did not refer to the government project and the government proposal, because there simply was no such proposal. That is not true. Now, in my question, I would like to refer to the last paragraph. In the last paragraph, you are talking about increasing the distance to democratic countries. This is what the whole proposed resolution sounds like, because the reason is generally this media fee. And in the committee meeting, the senator and the applicants did not hide it, that it caused this initiative. I would therefore like to ask what democratic countries in the West are you talking about, where this distance is increasing, since in the Member States of the European Union, such as France, Spain and Italy, as well as in countries outside the European Union, for example. in the UK, such a media fee is functioning. Such solutions are implemented, they simply function and no one there talks about the threat of media freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u124	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It amazes me that you are so selectively reading the text of this project. Read it with understanding... or with greater favor That's what I'd say more gently. Please note, Senator, that we are referring to a process in this project. Maybe we're blowing a little bit off, but it seems, after what's been going on lately, that you can't keep quiet anymore, that you can't use explicit words. If we are talking about increasing the distance to the family of democratic states, this is the case. Not just the media, but above all the judiciary, Senator. If you do not notice, then there really is no understanding or agreement between us. I mean, you need to know what is the basis of democracy, and then wonder how it works in Poland. And I'd like to tell you that in many areas it's bad, it's bad, and it's bad in the media, too. And I can assure you that when it comes to public media... at all, there is no such thing as media in any country. Public television in Poland. I mean, something that we see on TVP3 is not in any country except some authoritarian country. Well, I wouldn't want to offend anyone. But if we're watching TVP3... Well, that's what the Russian media or the Hungarian media look like. Even I suspect that in terms of level, we are often similarly or even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of the 3 questions, this will be enough for now. First of all, I'd like to hear exactly from the senator about this media takeover by these groups. The Polish Press by Orlen, which is actually bad for you here, which is criticised. [[Voice from the room: PRL is bad.]] No, no, it can't be. Orlen's from the PRL? [[Is that the end of the question, Senator?]] All right, well, let's not talk to the doormen. [[Voice from the hall: Return to the PRL is bad.]] [[Questions, please. Please don't disturb me.]] Exactly. So yes: first of all, the fact that it was the company that bought the company; second of all, that it was a Polish company and it was German; third of all, that there is a concentration of media. Well, there's got to be a reason. Because I find it possible... But of course I'm not saying it's wrong. It's about a specific answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u128	Specifically, Mr. Senator... [[But the second question, if you don't mind...]] Excuse me, would you mind if I answered? Is it, Mr. Marshal, or should I wait? I'll answer you quickly because you're asking for specific... [[Senator, draw up another...]] The concentration of the media in the hands of the authorities or the entities dependent on the rulers. [[So the media concentration is bad?]] In the hands of the rulers I think I'm quite clear, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u129	Senator, ask the senator all the questions, [[Exactly.]] Because there can't be such a dialogue that you answer, and then there's a question. Let's have all the questions and the senator answer. [[All right, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u130	So here's the thing. Assuming media concentration is bad, why didn't you protest like a German group... Well, she's gotta have those shares from somewhere. It's not like he's got them out of nowhere. Nobody let her go. So she bought these Polish media. Please tell me: why was there no protests at the time when the German group took possession or became the owner of a significant percentage of the media in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u131	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u132	Dear Senator, first of all, once again, the problem is not the concentration of the media at all. We're not referring to this in this project. Only concentration in the hands of the rulers. Do you understand? It is not good when power has its own media, which it controls and which still pays, e.g. from taxes or from the money of state corporations. This is terrible. It's also awful when state concerns, Mr. Senator, pay off the media, which are favorable to the authorities, as well as other media. Because not only does the public media support this whole group, but also other media, through advertising and grants for some foundations and to pay for some clubs, some newspapers, etc., etc. This is terrible, Mr. Senator. And, as I recall, there were protests at the buyout. But please note how diverse the media market in Poland was then. He's a lot poorer now. There's a process of media collapse, we're dealing with it in the culture committee, we're hurting that there's so little local media that there's less and less media. This is a problem that the government doesn't pay attention to at all. The government does not help these small entities and transfers huge amounts to favorable media, press media or online media. I could exchange... Anyway, in my speech, I'm going to mention where this money is being transferred, where it's being transferred. You know that very well. These media are not supported, the local press is not supported, the various press is not supported, the minister has cut subsidies for parts... Some government advertising media are not targeted at all. You should be aware of that. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u133	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u134	Speaking of knowledge... 2 additional questions, short. The first issue relates to the impact on the media. According to you, the cancellation of the editor-in-chief after Mr.Paul Grass and Mr. Jan Kulczyk's discussion by the German shareholder is an impact on the media, isn't that an impact on the media? It's about ownership. And second question, maybe perverse and rather rhetorical. In this resolution you want to make it clear that there is a complete lack of freedom of media in Poland, almost as in the times of the commune, that there is censorship, etc. Then name me the titles of underground, debitless work, as it used to be said, the paper that is now being published, because there is no way to get to the real information. I remember such titles from the times of the Polish People's Republic, but I'm sure they are now, because it's so bad.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u135	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u136	It seems to me, Mr. Marshal, that we are so far from the content of this resolution... I don't think my opinion on the release of the editor-in-chief of any journal has any significance. Even if I may have a critical opinion about this, in the case we're talking about... I don't think there's an influence here on the ownership of this medium, i.e. Whether it's a foreign company or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u138	Thank you. Mrs. Senator, have you heard of the case described in many media, where the judge of the Constitutional Court, Mrs. Pawłowicz, demanding correction from the editor-in-chief of one of the journals that Orlen bought, publicly thanked Mr. President Objtkowi, what can be understood and read as an attempt to influence the judge's ownership policy towards the editorial office, which had the audacity to inform you of your stay at the spa?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u139	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u140	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want to go into detail on this case because I don't know her. With regard to what is happening with Orlen, about the thanks from various media, about the servilistic attitude of the rulers to the state companies, which are on the board of state... I must say that it is embarrassing and outrageous to give each other titles, that it is the mutual provision of various services, by the state and by companies, the transfer of various kinds of subsidies, the distribution of this among those who favor power. It's embarrassing and outrageous, I'd say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u141	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede. Senator Swede. Room 217-- Ah, you're the senator, you're down. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, in the High House, the 10th term of office, the Senate is proposing a political resolution that is not de facto too much in common with reality. Again, this type of outburst causes us to lower the rank of the resolution of the High House, and the Senate becomes nothing but a weapon in the populist political fight against the government in its current term of office. Let's not get manipulated. The advertising premium is not an action against the media. It is a form of fair payment by digital giants and the largest media companies. The new fee will in no way affect media independence or freedom of operation. Digital and advertising taxes are not unusual. Similar solutions already exist in other European countries, among others. in the UK, France, Spain or Italy. In the case of press advertising, local newspapers whose advertising revenues do not exceed 15 million zlotys will not pay either a zloty. The internet advertising contribution does not apply to local media, including local press. This will only affect large companies that make huge advertising profits. The project itself is only in pre-consultation. Market participants from 2 to 16 February had time to submit comments and proposals to the project. Only such a formula will allow to develop final solutions which will be addressed to the work of the Council of Ministers. So it is not true, as it is written in the draft resolution, that the new media fee will result in a massive weakening of independent media Of which local and regional . whose funding is based on advertising income. Local and regional media are simply not involved. In the project, you write that this is another one after the acquisition by the state-owned fuel company of an independent press group. It is part of the process of destroying free media and subjecting them to the current interests of power. And that this is contrary to the Polish state and the interests of citizens. This is, of course, what was already mentioned in the course of asking questions, about the acquisition by PKN Orlen of one of the largest publishers in Poland, Poland Press, from the German Verlagsgruppe Passau Capital Group, thanks to which Orlen will gain access to 17.4 million readers. It is worth recalling that so far, more than 20 regional journals and about 150 local weekly newspapers have belonged to the German entity, one of the largest publishing groups in Poland. According to the applicants, it is the German entity that is the largest media entity in Poland. She had a bold thesis, as has been said here before. I would understand if I heard it in the Bundestag or in the Bundesrat, but not in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. In my opinion, the proposed resolution is based on false allegations and lowers the rank of resolutions adopted by the High House. That's why I'm filing for rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u143	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! But it's all repeatable. Repeatable for those who remember our debate of December 2015 on the fate of public television, when PiS did its first milestone in public ownership. It started with TV because it knew that television in the hands of the control bodies that operate on the basis of the constitution is dangerous for the new power that you have to jump into public property and make it party property. So the government has to take control so that it can make this television a great propaganda machine for the rulers. We've been keeping it from that. This side of the room, in most cases, said: nothing is happening, nothing is happening, we are only correcting mistakes from the past and we are introducing new solutions, television and public radio must be citizens' property. Of course, it was the beginning of the new speech used by the PiS, which is kind of affecting all areas of life at the moment, where black became white and white became black. In accordance with what President Kaczyński had already signaled. Let me quote from your memory: no one can convince us that white is white and black is black. So what? The effects of this first big leap on public property have been seen with our own eyes for five years. One of these effects is that Poland from 18th place in the ranking of freedom of the press, prepared by the renowned, respected organization of Reporters without Borders in the world, fell to the place of sixty-second. I would stress that from the 18th to the 60th. If it were a drop from 18th to 20th, you could say it was a temporary disturbance. But no. This is the consistent deterioration of Poland's position in the international press freedom ranking. During these six years Poland has fallen by 40 positions. These numbers don't lie, these data tell the truth. And it's mostly because of what's going on on government television. Because what else would you call this TV if it wasn't government television? It is the Minister of Treasury, as you remember, five years ago, according to the Act, he has dismissed the members of the Supervisory Boards and the boards of all radio and television companies. This side of the room Not only did she let him do this, but she also authorized him to cancel these members according to his own will. The competitions have been closed, the cadence has been eliminated, any criteria have been removed in the appointment of those who manage this public good. There is no doubt that this proposed resolution is telling the truth about the next attack on the media, the freedom of the media, and that we are currently having another serious discussion on the future in this Chamber. The future of what? The future of Polish democracy. There is no doubt that this leap, such a typical PRL, is a typical counter-revolution in relation to the revolution of "Solidarity," a counter-revolution which was done by the PIS, is to restore the PRL on the media market. And it's happening. It's happening, among other things. By taking over by Orlen from Verlagsgruppe Passau, somehow it's easier for me to say Neue Passauer Presse, because that's how it happened, but I'm using the right name. More than 170 titles of local, regional press and more than 200 different portals. It's gas-promotion, it's puttin' the press market. President Obajtek, who receives a prize or title, probably the title, the Man of Liberty, is actually responsible for the penetration of Polish weekly magazines and local, regional journals. This is nothing more than a return to the Polish People's Republic, in which the power exercised control over all media, over the entire local, regional and national press. This is nothing more than the use of a non-Hungarian model, but so far a Russian model in which Gazprom's equivalent becomes the owner of newspapers, weeklys and journals. And all the arguments that this is repurchased from a German, repurchased from a foreigner are, of course, one big drink for water. It's a pic for water. Because let's remind who was sold the Evening Express by the Press Foundation, the founder and president of which was Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński. Well, not some Pole, not some group of Poles, not some Polish company, not some Polish corporation. No. He was sold to foreigners, the Swiss. Well, it's a famous case, a famous scandal. They got after the division of RSW The book. The title and the real estate, together with the printing works, were then taken and sold to foreigners. And at the moment they dare to speak impudently, in this room too, about the fact that some of the press was in the hands of foreigners, and therefore they are repolonizing it. What we hear in this room is just insolent. This is an exceptional insolence that shouldn't have happened in the senate room. First they sell to foreigners themselves, and then they accuse themselves of defending foreign capital in Polish media. That kind of perversion hasn't been here in a long time. At the moment we are dealing with the second stage, as I said, restrictions on the freedom of the press. But it's not just gas-promotion, it's happening right in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also remember the attacks on individual journalists and the harassment of them. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] I myself witnessed an attack on the editor of Grzybowska under the Ministry of National Education. I witnessed it myself. I saw what was going on. I personally saw her struggled and pulled out even though she was waving her press card. And Grzybowska's editor is not the only journalist or journalist who has recently been attacked by public policy authorities, specifically by the Polish police. He's not the only journalist, he's a lot of them. This is also part of the pressure that PiS exerts through the police, also through the prosecutor's office, on independent Polish journalism. And what, we're supposed to keep quiet in this situation? If we were to remain silent in this situation, we would take responsibility for all the actions that are taking place. Therefore, we do not remain silent in this situation and therefore the draft resolution submitted by a group of senators, whose representative is Senator Zdrojewska, is a red signal, is a red light. Well, the red light doesn't pulsate, but you could say it's a pulsating red warning light. Come to your senses, gentlemen and ladies, because you are taking this Polish train no longer towards Budapest, but towards Moscow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u145	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u146	We seem to be saying the same thing over and over again. Nothing gets to anyone, it gets worse. That is why this draft resolution has this content. She's pretty categorical, it's not a soft resolution. This is a resolution that concerns what may be in Poland in a moment. I remind you that when it comes to the courts and what could happen to the Constitutional Tribunal, what could happen to the courts seemed unrealistic, so far away. It seemed like if the Attorney General were to be the Minister of Justice at the same time... That's how it's been, and nothing so horrible has ever happened. It's true, isn't it? And it turns out that after this power comes, only black scenarios come true. If they say something's wrong, it's what it's gonna be. It's usually even worse than we expected. Well, I remember those demonstrations at the beginning of last term. When people went out on the streets to defend the public media and defend the courts, some waved and said, "Don't overdo it, it's not so scary yet." After quietly, step by step, the judicial system has been brought to ruin over the past few years, and public media have become an example of the disgrace of Polish journalism and European journalism in general. Of course, I'm talking about information programs, and I don't want to generalize. I'm sorry, this doesn't, of course, apply to all the programs that are in the public media. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the media in Poland are not well, they are not in a good financial position. This has been increased by lockdown, there are fewer ads etc., etc. The media in Poland are not doing so well, because there have been some negative processes that have lasted for the last 30 years. Perhaps some felt that these media would flourish, but it turned out that we were in such a situation when it was possible to buy out a small amount of power, for not so much money again from the entire press group operating in Poland and subjecting it to its government. We are looking at this and we know very well that power will continue this way and will also seek other ways of subjugating the media. The new tax, if it is introduced, the government is already slightly retreating, so I hope that there will be some miraculous reversal of this fatal situation. First of all, it hits the viewer, it hits the listener, the reader, the Internet reader. It's not a tax that hits the media first. Yeah, he's gonna hit them, but he's gonna hit every listener and viewer, every one of us. It will certainly also result in a reduction in expenditure. This is very important, we have to talk about it. It's about spending valuable content, because if the media has to save money, they'll save money, for example. on investigative texts, on what costs a lot. And it doesn't cost much that information mush we all know, that inexplicable information. If you are asking what the inexhaustible information is about, I explain that this is the information you can get in the news of TVP and on TVP Info. This is the simple, indeep information, devoid of the other side's point of view. Well, that's not gonna happen in the media. I think they're going to be objective enough, but it's definitely going to hurt investigative journalism. And explaining the biggest issues of recent years is because of free media, not because of the prosecutor's office or under the authority of the services. The government is convinced that... well, unfortunately you lie to Prime Minister Morawiecki about the fact that this fee is intended to serve to create better conditions for the development of free media. Well, that's... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's what he said, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply a lie. You have to say that this is absolutely not true. It only hurts free media, freedom of speech, recipients. It is also not true that the media, as the government suggests, do not pay taxes. Just at a time when there is a pandemic, when the media are affected like all other companies in Poland, the government suddenly introduces a new fee. The media pays taxes like all companies pay income tax. If the publisher is a local entity, a single person, some small enterprise, then it pays PIT tax, companies pay CIT. Besides, they pay VAT, issue fees, fees for management organizations... The Senate introduced these charges at different times. There are fees that are related to copyright. They also often pay big, huge money for concessions, for frequencies. There are also VOD fees. Few people remember that some media also pay. for Polish films, for cinema. With such fees is maintained the Polish Film Institute. 5% or 8% newspaper prices it's a tax, depending on whether it's local or central media. So that the price of the newspaper is included in the tax. So taxes are paid. The media finance culture, cultural events and charitable activities. I'm not gonna develop it because the media has been doing it for the first time in the past. And it is very good that this campaign finally took place, and they boasted about what they were doing for society, what they were doing for people. What I'm talking about, for example. investigative journalism... People spend a huge amount of time on it sometimes six months, many months, working to detect a scandal. Do you know any of the issues detected by the dependent media? No, government-dependent media in Poland do not detect any scandals. And we know very well that ministers or politicians, as they have such questions, are not able to answer them positively and give any scandal detected e.g. by TVP 3 among the rulers. Between 2015 and 2020 the company of the State Treasury... Now we refer to these companies and how the media are subsidised; this is what I promised Senator Bierecki. So the companies of the Treasury spent PLN 5.4 billion on advertising. The criteria for selecting a medium to post advertising are unclear, as Prof. Kowalski stated in his report. It's a freshly published report, I think, last week. The stream of advertising from State Treasury companies is addressed to power-enhancing media. And this is proven, demonstrated by Professor Kowalski. In 2020 the Gazeta Wyborcza got such advertisements for 74 thousand, of such value, and the marginal Gazeta Polska Each day only 11 thousand copies of average sales received 8.4 million PLN. So, compare the way in which the State Treasury grants the media to those in favor of the government and how Objective or reluctant media. So once again: Gazeta Wyborcza, 74 thousand, Gazeta Polska Each day, PLN 8.4 million. As far as the weekly is concerned, the networks received PLN 20 million, the Gazeta Poland, the 13 million, the 14 million. And guess how much they got from the companies Newsweek and Politics and they're also weekly. Nothing, not a penny. And the central government threw in their money because they paid to the favorable government the media of PLN 383 million. These are, ladies and gentlemen, huge amounts. These are the media that were completely marginal, and right now they're blooming. I'm talking about the government-friendly media, some of which I just mentioned. Avoiding media that are not clearly pro-government, that is the principle of the current government. This group includes Gazeta Wyborcza and TVN, as well as the media associated with them, e.g. Radio Zet, which is linked to one of these entities. Treasury companies favour public media and government-friendly media. The advertising expenses of the Treasury companies have generally decreased, these subsidies are smaller, but now it is all the more obvious that it is easier to survive those media that favor the government. That's what it looks like. "Newsweek," "Policy," "Tygodnik Powszechny" "zero," "Gazeta Polska" ("Gazeta Polska") " 2 thousand 400%" the average effort/expenditure ratio. [[Thank you, Senator.]] Good. I'm saying... [[Senator, 11 minutes.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I'm going to add something in a moment, and I'd like to give you the data.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u147	Thank you very much. Of course, you can use five more minutes. Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All those who today raise the issue of an unnecessary or premature democratic response by the majority of the Senate to the announcement of the draconian tax burden on independent media do not take into account one fundamental fact. Our draft resolution is the result of a very brutal lesson we could observe in Hungary. Many Hungarian activities are directly copied by the PiS government. In countries with established democracy, there is no doubt that free media are virtually nonexistent in the country ruled by Viktor Orbán, and censorship becomes the daily practice of broadcasters under state control. As a lively reminder of the situation that we have been dealing with for years in Russia or Belarus, where authoritarianism has been successive, methodically condemning all forms of pro-democratic behaviour. What's it like in Poland? Warning signals have emerged in recent years, in recent days enough to give the growing concern about freedom of speech a profound justification. I'll give you some examples from the last few days. We've all seen our callers removed before broadcast on TVP emblems of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. We also remember the last incident when the weather anchor from the Poznań public television division lost her job because she appeared on TV with this emblem. I don't even mention how to report a strike of women and other inconvenient events. It seems impossible to calculate these incidents because of their plurality. Examples could be multiplied indefinitely, showing how much you are trying today in the media, conventionally called public, restricting freedom of speech and distorting the meaning of the message. Any programs or even stations that may have been considered relatively independent until recently are marginalized or de facto brought to an end. The best example of this is the latest story of Radio Three. The conclusion that arises in connection with these and dozens of other events and the announcement of imposing additional taxes on the media turns out to be grim. For it may turn out that our reaction in the form of today's resolution on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland is not only premature, but already late. I have signed this draft resolution and fully support its content prepared by the Committee on Culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u149	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 11 February the whole Poland could hear the message of a third person in the state, Marshal of the Senate, Prof. Tomasz Grodzki, only in the so-called. The public television message was preceded by a black board with the inscription "Here" should be your favorite match. It was an unprecedented example of rudeness, vileness, and simple lying. The Senate offered to issue a message that lasts less than 6 minutes during the break of the match, less than 5 minutes earlier. The answer from public television was this board. However, to find out this truth, you had to see the news in nonstate media. Of course, rudeness, vileness and lies are human vices, but practiced on behalf of the Polish state under the banner of a public mission, on which Poles spend PLN 2 billion a year and PLN 264 of a television subscription, become rudeness, vileness and lies of the Polish state. And that's not what I'm authorized to do. What would be the lie if there were no private media, independent of the state, i.e. from the PiS? It would be the truth, the only truth. The same truth that over the years was that the Germans murdered Poles in Katyn. The same truth was meant to be the heiter story about Paul Adamowicz or about the Smoleńsk crime combined with the betrayal of his homeland, which is still promoted by some PiS leaders using public media. Unfortunately, we're already in a situation where all the lame lies We can't explain. In order to force the beginning of the trial of the assassin Paul Adamowicz, many people, including myself, signed appeals to Minister Ziobra. It's been two years, and the trial Although on the same day, the killer was captured It hasn't started yet. I hear it's supposed to start on Monday. What are they afraid of? Why are we afraid of this trial? Are we not sometimes afraid that the murderer will scream that, after all, he learned from public media about Paul Adamowicz? Fortunately, we have independent media, and we'll know what's going to happen in this process. That's why TVP needs to be removed as soon as possible, or at least TVP Info, cut out like a sick cancer cell. Paradoxically, 2 billion PLN, which we intended to allocate to the treatment of cancer, this terrible disease affecting Poles, was dedicated to this television, to the spread of this cancer, which is digging Polish society. Ladies and gentlemen, the real mission can be performed by other media, not necessarily by state television, including those that are actually targeted at the edge of the new tax and the entire policy of the PIS The purchase by a real group of 20 of 24 regional weekly magazines, about 150 local weekly magazines and about 500 websites and websites reaching 17 million Internet users is a symptom of an extremely dangerous phenomenon. The introduction of a media tax is another step in this direction. It formally hits high-income media, which is not available to most local and regional media. But I was a publisher and editor-in-chief of local and regional newspapers. I've been doing this for 12 years, and I know how this market works. Large entities first sign agreements with media giants and then, if anything, allocate funds for promotion in the region. Talks with global partners or even national partners always look the same: Mr. Editor, please wait, we will sign strategic agreements with global media, and if we have money left, we will go back to talking with you. Once this tax is introduced, the advertising pool in regional media will be reduced by 800 million. Large players will not give up global promotion, global media strategies. They'll just spend 800 million more on it. And they're not gonna spend that money on commercials with less coverage. Senators and Senators, I am in constant contact with regional and local media, as well as with associations that these media group together. Already today, many of them are balancing on the brink of cost-effectiveness, because the inhibition of the economy in itself caused a standstill in the advertising market. By the way, how do you imagine that you are promoting this new tax, the return of Polish companies to the market if you subtract these 800 million from their advertising budget? Did you think Poles would buy Polish products if they didn't see them in adverts? This is bullshit, a product without advertising will fall out of the market. Polish product will fall out of the Polish market and will be replaced by another product, German, so much hated by PiS senators. He's the one who's gonna enter our market. The problem is that you do not care so much that the Polish product remains on the Polish market. You're more interested in eliminating or taking over independent media. Because the real effect of the introduction of this new media charge will be precisely that some of the media will simply disappear. For now these media, waiting for the end of the pandemic crisis, do not buy equipment and reduce employment, but this is a strategy for survival rather than development. Local TVs where the cost of preparing journalistic materials is highest In Poland there are about 100 of them already with barely a nozzle. 80% of their owners are natural persons. The specificity of these media is the dominance of information and publicity, i.e. classic missionary programs, which should be financed from the advertising market. These TVs will soon go bankrupt and be available for sale. Which other company of the Treasury will buy them out? Has any company been appointed yet? That's what we can expect. And let's face it, I'm not doing anything here. I'm not discovering the new one. The scenario proposed in Poland by PiS has already been successfully realized in Hungary. Thanks to this, Hungary is, as Senator Bogdan Klich reminded, on the eighty-nineth place in the press freedom ranking. We're 27 upstairs, but we have a chance of catching up with the Hungarians. On February 14, 5 days ago, the Hungarian court ruled that it would not extend the concession of the Radio Clubradio. This is the last independent sender in Hungary, and the rest has already been taken over by the party oligarchs. The only thing left for the Nationals is the Internet. Poland will have a similar scenario. The weakened media will either fall or, like Passauer Presse, will be bought by entities associated with the PiS. By the way, the buy-out of Passauer Presse, because I see that the Senators of the PiS are very affected by this problem... Maybe they're afraid that Obietek's gonna lose his power. I don't know. Or maybe they know what business is. But you're wondering what's wrong with the fact that a government-dependent company is buying out a media giant like that. Well, there are two basic things. The first and fundamental answer will be found in the High School Studies Manual at this level. She says this: the media must be the fourth power, which means they must be independent of power. They have to complement the montesque threefold division of power. The purchase by the state-owned group of 200 newspapers and 500 websites is a violation of the principle of respect for the fourth power. Piotr Gliński did not hide the fact that, by buying out these media, PiS wants to increase the impact on society. And the second answer? It's a threat to the monopoly of information. That's the PRL option. [[Time, time...]] Now, Mr. Marshal, two sentences. 17 million Internet users. 13 million Poles have access only to TVP, to public television. It's almost an information monopoly. The media fee will open up the possibility of buying out more media and this will be the end of freedom, followed by the end of democracy. We will catch up and even outrun Hungary and PiS will repel another success. Unless the senators reflect and support this resolution, which I strongly urge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u151	Thank you, Senator. And I ask that senator Alicia Chybicka speak. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened to all these speeches, and above all the speeches of Senator Zdrojewska and absolutely, I fully support this project, our senate resolution, the resolution of the free opposition Senate. But I hope that this draft resolution will be voted by everyone, including the Senators of the PiS. Why? Because the free, private, most often the media we are talking about are subject to an additional tax, if this happens, I will not repeat it again, as my previous speakers have said... What will this mean for many people, for the sick, for many lives? I do not know whether you know that all these media support sick people, both individual and large hospitals. They saved many lives through their charity. Large media have their foundations, such as the TVN Foundation.You are not alone or the Polsat Foundation.We are for children, but also these smaller media have their foundations, and even if they don't have them, then if necessary, they collect money for the sick and thus the sick live. I can say that many of my children live through these foundations, through private media actions. I'm terrified of the perspective of what my previous speakers said these media might disappear because then this help will also disappear, because there won't be anything to... These media will probably have to cut back on charity at first. The Polsat Foundation has built a transplant unit at the clinic, which I have the privilege of running, a neonatal unit at the Children's Health Center, renovated the children's otolaryngology department. She's been spending money on hospice recently. All these spoken, written, watched media are holding cash collections for children at the moment, among others. For Marty, who fights for her life and needs 1 million 300 on CAR-T cells. They were collecting for anti-GD2, for rehabilitation equipment, for monoclonal antibodies, for a lot of other things. I'm only talking about my oncology department, but this aid involved a lot of other specialties. All the private media I mentioned also run information and educational campaigns. These are medical actions that help implement innovative diagnostics and treatment, as well as finance both diagnosis and treatment. All the media did it before. Is it now? I'm scared, I'll be honest. Because if the media disappears, unfortunately, there will also be many lives that have been saved by private media so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u153	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u154	Now. [[You're welcome.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I speak spontaneously, too, and I do not hide the fact that I did not prepare for this, but by listening to the speeches, especially my colleagues on the right... Well, I'm afraid I have to speak. The amount of hypocrisy and the amount of lies that are really spilled is amazing. I'm surprised, because some of the Senate colleagues sometimes in the halls, when they're talking to them, show a lot of normality, and when there's some kind of political debate, I don't know what's going on with them. It's incomprehensible to me. Ladies and gentlemen, today you say that the public media are independent, that the public media are apolitical and are not on either side, that is already cosmic hypocrisy. It's cosmic. We all know what role public media play today and on which side they stand. We all know that President Andrzej Duda's presidential election was won primarily by public media who engaged on one side of the dispute. As was mentioned, the vast number of people in our country have access only to terrestrial television. There's no TVN24, there's no way to get information and confront them in some way. Talking about TVN... I'll just remind you, TVN and the main edition of the Facts at 7:00 p.m. is actually a few minutes of politics, and the rest of the information is from the world and relates to what's going on in the country. I'm sure they're not political. It's maybe five minutes after 7:00. So this hypocrisy is gigantic. I would also like to refer to what Mrs. Chybick said. And so I started to wonder how much TVP gave money to charity, hospitals, to treat sick people... 'Cause all I remember is... TVP reminds me of fighting Owsiak. Only with destroying this wonderful initiative that saves lives for many people. So that I really am TVN, Polsat is associated with help, saving people's lives, and TVP reminds me of fighting Owsiak, with organizations that save people's lives. And the argument about this solidarity tax... 'Cause that's the kind of password that comes up, too, and why shouldn't these media pay? And if we talked about electronic media such as Google, Facebook or Amazon, maybe we could find a common language. Because indeed... why do such companies that make money on what is happening in Poland not pay those taxes? But it's just a cover. This is just and only an argument that appears on TVP Info and is inculcated to people who do not actually have full information. In fact, it is a struggle for media, which still remain on the market, these free media. And if this argument, as far as the rulers are concerned, was presented, but given this, ladies and gentlemen, that private media have to deal with themselves and media so-called. Nationals, which are biased and stand only on one side of the political scene, receive enormous support from our taxes... Let me just remind you, fellow Hypocrites, that if we were talking about private media and national media without PLN 2 billion a year for propaganda actually to a large extent... Of course, there are other channels, that's clear. Maybe 2 billion zlotys do not go directly to TVP Info, it goes much less. But it's still gigantic money. If it wasn't for the subscription that's paid, even though there's advertising on public television, too... After all, public television also interrupts various broadcasts, broadcasts and broadcasts. So if both of them were only making money on commercials and then we'd say we were gonna tax commercials, that's okay. But public television benefits from advertising, like private media, and also receives money from the subscription and receives huge money from our taxes, from the state budget. So there's no equality here. And we all know very well that if this tax falls on TVP in some way and TVP will also be charged with this tax, it will quickly compensate for this difference. There is therefore no level playing field, there is no level playing field and this is absolutely aimed at eliminating private media from our media market. There's been a lot of talk about our government trying on. The question is, how would a company do that? To buy TVN. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you think about it... I don't know, in your consciences, let's settle this. If it wasn't an American company, would TVN still exist? And my second question. I don't know how much TVN is worth, I have no idea, but let's say 2 billion, let's take that amount, maybe it's more, but let's say 2 billion. And this is private television. And if the Polish government pays $4 billion for TVN, will TVN be sold or not? Will there be temptations to do the same thing that was done in Russia? Unfortunately, I am sorry, but what is happening in Poland must be compared to what is happening in Russia, Hungary or, already extremely, in Belarus. So the danger that the rulers will be tempted to take over the local media, what Mr. Obajtek and Orlen are doing right now, another hit has gone to the media... and that there will be an attempt to take over them... To sum up, I'm going to say this: public media They're not objective. Public media today is a political tool in the hands of the ruling party. We are moving further and further away from democratic standards. We can't let that happen. On behalf of all Poles, not only those who support the PiS or the Platform, I appeal to decision-makers, to the rulers: leave the media independent, because this is the basis of democracy. If you destroy this foundation of democracy, then Polish society and the Polish nation They won't forgive you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u155	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not my vote in the debate, this is complementary to everything that has already been said. I don't want to repeat myself, but here on my right, I almost have an empty room... I'd like to give this addition to Mr. Bierecki. Why did this draft resolution come up? I'm talking about it because it really bothered him. And why did the Committee on Culture and Media do this? Because we were obliged by our society, civil society, which immediately responded to the protest of independent media. From studies that have been included in various kinds of information measures, we know that 62% Poles and Poles supported the protest of independent media. It says something, it obliges us to do something, it obliges us not to be passive, to take a stand. Of course, either way, our position would be taken and delivered, but I will only limit myself to that because, as I said, I do not want to repeat the arguments that have already been presented here in large numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, this 62% knocked, knocked on various doors, 62% Poles and Poles wrote everywhere, among others. I have been obliged to present the Senate with all the protests and statements that have come. Of course I won't, because I would have to take your time five times after 10 minutes, but I would like Mr. Bierecki, regardless of where he is and why he is so amazed, to hear two or three entries I have received, and I would like to read them. One: Dear Senator, me and my family sign both hands and send a letter. We demand a position on independent media. We join our consent everywhere, attach signatures with names, names and PESELs. And it's all at your disposal. Next: I move that you as senators and we as voters present our great protest against the dismantling of a democratic state, the dismantling of a true threefold division of power. We cannot agree to continue to do so. Destroying independent media is another stage in dismantling true democracy. As citizens of this country, we are fed up with this action. It's a very long entry, so I just read a little. And another: "I am addressing your senators in connection with the draft law imposing a tax on independent media under the pretext of the COVID-19 pandemic, which leads to a massive outbreak of our dissatisfaction. As citizens, we do not agree to the destruction of independent media. That is why I am asking you and all senators to counter the government's plans as soon as possible. I could read forever anyway. The rest, of course, is in my office, and I have some to look at here. Everyone's signed off. This is a handful, a small number of people I quote, but citizens like I said at the beginning of my speech are 62% in the country. And we cannot ignore such a large number of citizens. That is why I have decided to give you this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u157	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u158	This is the second part of my speech. Mr Marshal, as the debate is slowly coming to an end, I would like to ask the Marshal to... I would like to ask you to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the draft resolution yet at this meeting, as a legislative proposal has been tabled. On the subject, I have to say two more things that I didn't have time to say before. The first question is money. Because here we are talking about anticipated impacts of PLN 800 million. I don't really believe it at all. I don't really believe it at all. Nor do I really believe in these different stories about what this tax is meant to be for. But we hear it's gonna be okay. 800 million zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, 800 million PLN... I remind you that for 4 years the Polish Television received almost 6 billion PLN of public aid. What are we talking about here? Please note how small these tax revenues are compared to what I said earlier, i.e. subsidies for various types of entities and press dependent on government or public media, compared to what we are talking about here. This money won't save anything. They will neither save health care nor save monuments nor save anything in Poland, but they can ruin, they can kill, they can cause closure. Ladies and gentlemen, the second point I would like to say is that the media are subject to various kinds of pressure. We watched it in Hungary because it was first tried by pressure to finish the media to make them dependent on the government to pacify them. We've had these attempts, too. I wouldn't want to replace them. The more respect the media deserves, even though they have the sword of Damocles hanging over their heads... And so on. TVN has been waiting for the extension of the concession for the TVN24 channel for a year and the current concession is valid until September 26th and there has been no answer for a year. They don't know if they can keep running the station. We can only imagine what it looks like to work under such pressure. I know it doesn't affect TVN24's dependence... and really respect for those journalists who work there. Imagine someone working for a company and depending on the state. The state can buy something or not buy something, maybe give something or not give something. You could call it a barbecue. It often happens that some media simply have to step down, they have to step down under all kinds of pressure. And the other thing. Respect for all journalists from the Polish Press Group. The Senators of Law and Justice were talking about this German threat, which... I do not know if the senators know that journalists and publishers, editors of the war, the whole group of Polish Press took part in this protest of the media that took place. So that great respect for them. They're just changing owners, they're about to move on to a completely different owner. Real respect for them. We have expressed our respect for the judges here, and today we express our respect for all those journalists who have the courage. And I'd like to thank those reporters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u159	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to express my sincere thanks to the initiators of this resolution. I think it is extremely necessary. In particular, I pay attention to the second paragraph, which states that the planned new media fee will result in a massive weakening of independent media, including local and regional media, whose financial basis is advertising revenue. I would like to thank you all the more because the imposition of advertising tax on the media in practice means double taxation. In fact, the revenues from advertising are already burdened with CIT. And it doesn't matter that CIT is income tax, and the new tax is income tax because the same resources are charged. So we have the same subject of taxation. After all, the impact from advertising is reflected in the CIT tax base. This new tribute therefore violates the constitutional principles of equality and justice, the constitutional limit of taxation. This tribute is an unjustified discrimination against one of the industries. The unconstitutionality of this actually new tax, because we should be talking about the tax here... It's not gonna change calling him a contribution. The so-called one. the premium has all the design features of the tax. And once again, the media in Poland already pay taxes on advertising revenue, in the form of CIT tax, income tax. The media also pays concession fees or royalties for creators. In this case, the Constitutional Tribunal also expressed its views on double taxation in its judgment of 18 November 2014, which can be found under the signature of Act K 23/2. The Constitutional Tribunal stresses that double taxation in the legal sense occurs in the case of double taxation of income or assets belonging to the same entity. The Court points out that non-constitutionality may result from excessive, disproportionate interference in the taxpayer's property rights and breaches of the principle of tax justice. This is precisely the situation that we are dealing with when we propose this tax, the actual tax. In this case, we also have a very rich case law of the administrative courts. The Supreme Administrative Court of 8 October 2020 stated and stressed in its judgment that double taxation is contrary to constitutional principles. He doesn't even want to bring up the judgments of the provincial administrative courts anymore. In the end, I want to highlight one thing. It is simply an unfair tax and imposed on an industry that is not at all... Well, those who work there don't go into any excess wealth, but at the same time carry out an extremely important mission for the citizen. I would like to thank all media workers very warmly here, not only journalists, but also publishers, office and administrative staff. It is thanks to your efforts that we learn every day about the truth, about the facts, about a reliable description of the situation. I hope that this will continue and that this new tax, unconstitutional, unfair, will never enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to say... Maybe I'll start by paraphrasing one of the previous speakers. I have read this draft resolution, I completely disagree with it, and therefore I am requesting that this draft be rejected in its entirety. Now it's concrete. In practical terms, in the case of each of the draft resolutions that appear at the moment in the Senate, the beginning of my speech is the same. We are still more and more effectively depreciating the institution of the Senate resolution as such. In the previous term, yes, there were resolutions, I would call them occasional, but they were a fundamental minority. Most of the resolutions were historical resolutions related to some historical anniversaries. In line with the right principle that the Senate is responsible for conducting a kind of historical policy, such a well understood, positive one. Such resolutions are usually taken in a conflict-free manner, practically by acclamation, possibly by one person or two abstentions. But unfortunately, there are more and more resolutions in this term, which are commemorative... I can still understand the resolution on the Australian fire because we like this country... But, ladies and gentlemen, please note that this side of the room, mainly the Civic Platform, treats the institution of the Senate resolution as simply an extended press conference. If you have any views on a current topic that disappears from the media after two weeks or a week, set up microphones against the Senate logo and just present them there. Don't involve the Senate as a whole. Of course you can, because you have most, but not always what you can do should be done. Because then it stays, it will be published in the Polish Monitor and somebody will read it, you will read it, maybe your children will read it. Ladies and gentlemen, how much can it be explained that this is really not conducive to the importance of the Senate, it is not conducive to the importance of the Senate to present the position of one party by means of the text of the resolution. Incidentally, then such a presentation is decompleted, because the other side, of course, also says what it wants or what it knows about it. And there's a discussion that doesn't really bring anything. To convince you because maybe it's hard to get through... I have the agenda for this meeting here. One point, i.e. changes in committees, is technical Let's skip it. One was connected with an action or an external event, the opinion of the candidate for the Ombudsman. And then what do we have? 6 The Laws We Considered, This Is What Comes From the Seym Yes, it's our primary duty, and most of all, in quotes, we get paid. And then what? 9 legislative drafts are indeed the right of legislative initiative, but it is already beginning to be a slow legislative diarrhea, all the more so because these legislative drafts are, so I would call it, medium-consumed in the Sejm and 4 draft resolutions. The question is, why? And we're done here. Now it's concrete. I have already been very critical of the text of this draft resolution at the committee meeting. Well, one of those points that... She's got some thesis, some statements. And one of those points is completely unacceptable to me, and it's dangerous. While others can be said to be a waste of time, criticize as before, this one is dangerous. At this point, the Senate is making use of a law that is not in the Constitution. Of course, everything can be decided, e.g. sentences like: the earth is almost round, the sky is blue, etc. It's so obvious. Except that's not why it's a resolution. And if the text of the resolution also interferes with the laws which are constitutionally given to us, or precisely those which we do not have... the participation of the High House in the legislative process is very strictly defined in the Constitution. The Senate as a separate body has a legislative initiative. We're using this, please notice, I just said that 9 billings are okay. Well, that's within our competence. What's next? We answer... I mean, we're reviewing the laws passed by the Sejm. It's already a bill. And we can either accept it or reject it in its entirety or make any amendments to it, sometimes they are very interfering. Good, even very good. This must be done because there are no infallible people, also in the Sejm. That's not enough, there's a third stage if they've already failed. Well, we can either apply to the Constitutional Tribunal for a group of 30 senators or, on a one-man basis, the Senate Marshal, and challenge any legal text on a constitutional basis. And the text that has already existed, and the text that has just been passed. It's okay, too. So there are 3 basic stages of the beginning, the end, the middle. And what is in this draft resolution? What are we getting at here? We're starting to question and question the principles of the bill... that is, not the law back! A project that has not even reached the marshal's staff yet. Can you judge such a project? It's so... Well, my word's out. It doesn't matter, it's about evaluating the project before it's brought to the staff. Yes, you can. It's done by social organizations, it's done by individual citizens, there's consultation. Oh, pre-consultation is a new word, new-fashioned. You can, of course, take part in pre-consultation, everyone can take part. Even political parties have such a right, social organizations, in general people, as I said, single citizens but not the Senate, because the Senate as the High Chamber has strict powers to deal with the legal text, as defined in the Constitution. And he has powers that no one else has. Let him take care of what he's authorized to do, not do pre-consultation on anything that comes out of the press. By the way, as far as this bill is concerned, this was also a breach from this podium, which is two explanations. This project, its text is already on the pages of the Ministry of Finance and everyone can read it. And one thing to calm down because not everyone has the time and the desire to read: this fee It's called advertising fee. It will be calculated not on all advertising revenues, but on a certain threshold. From PLN 1 million of these revenues In the calendar year, so that it is clear in the case of advertising on television and on the radio. And what's important? Because this concerns our local press, which deals directly with the issues of the people closest to it. From 15 million advertising revenues in the press during the year. Ladies and gentlemen, ask in your surroundings, preferably representatives of local weeklys, because they are about the scope of the county. Which one of them had an income of 15 million in a year from advertising. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you be so frightened? And this is just a project, and you can change it too. If you can prove to me that 1% local weeklys in Poland had more than 15 million advertising revenues per year, so I will fight to increase this number so that it does not apply to local weeklys. So much for explaining the bill, let's leave the rest. What else is in our draft resolution? Well, total criticism of the acquisition by one of the companies of shares of the other company, which the third company was selling. But you were fighting for the free market. And the fact that they're media companies is another matter. But how can you treat normal market operations... Is that what we're gonna do? We're gonna review every operation? Over what amount? Ladies and gentlemen, the translation that the owner has an impact on what's going on in the media is pointless because either it is or it isn't. If there isn't, this proposed resolution is false because it talks about something that doesn't exist. And if he does, where were you? I've already asked that question. When a large German media company intercepted Polish media, it bought out one by one? Well, unless that's what you're thinking: then the owners of this company had no influence, and suddenly they started to have. Like Germany, it's: and no, no, no, it's absolutely not. Like Poles, it's: yes, of course. Well, it's not entirely obvious, ladies and gentlemen. Because as soon as the sale was announced, or actually Poland Press was bought by Orlen, who spoke? The Association of German Journalists. What do you mean? German journalists write in the Polish press? And why didn't the Association of Polish Journalists speak? You're right I haven't heard from you. We asked a simple question, how the construction of the Cepa simple: why does the Association of German Journalists, which in theory does not write in our local press, speak on this matter? I've heard from him. Not just in this case. Previously, as sold, Berliner Zeitung was probably the name of this newspaper. I've heard from him, too. But that's where it might have been, because it was a German newspaper. It's a simple question. Someone will answer me from this speaker on the question of why German journalists interfere in Polish matters. What else is in the text of this draft resolution? [[Mr. Senator, you've been speaking for 13 minutes, and the time limit is 10 minutes. You've been out of time by 30%. Do you think that paying attention to you after 30% of your time is proof of my mistreatment...]] On the contrary. [[... or liberalism?]] On the contrary. Mr. Marshal... [[I'm the one who's paying attention.]] ...I praise you, sir, because people like me just have to be thrown out of the podium immediately after 10 minutes. [[But I don't want to throw you out, I'm just paying your attention.]] Seriously, Mr. Marshal, one last thought. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna leave the other lyrics, 'cause there'd be 3 more of them. The most important thing: such a resolution must always have some binder. I mean, the thoughts expressed in it, which, as you think about them more deeply, are completely false. What's she got in common with? What I call "newcomer" all the time. Well, this new speech here, such tautology, or saying the obvious, is led to absurdity. I will read this sentence: In the past Poles were repeatedly forced to organize an alternative circulation of information... That is, of course, true. How is it easy to say that this is the new language, the tautology? In the past, Poles were not repeatedly forced to organise an alternative circulation of information. It's a denial that gets you back on your feet. But, ladies and gentlemen, what it says here... what does that mean? The fact that the authors of this project are trying to compare the current situation with what was behind the communes. So I'm asking Mr. Marshal Borusewicz here, although this may be a rhetorical question: are you going to print paper already? I'm asking because you did a good job in the communist period. Are you on your way now, or are we still waiting for this resolution? Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your patience.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't think you even realize that you asked a question that very many of us don't take as a rhetorical question. [[Well, well, well.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Senator, we live in a country where more and more people ask themselves whether Bogdan Borusewicz will have to print the paper again. But I'm sorry that I allowed myself that attention. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u164	As your marshal rightly pointed out, these were not rhetorical questions and should be answered, and at least in some cases I will try to address them. First line. At the very beginning, the question was not rhetorical, but the question was most appropriate, namely, why the number of so-called ones increased in the Senate of this term. occasional resolutions. Well, what I'm saying is that it's because the number of circumstances that we're responding to has increased. And these are not good circumstances. We respond to situations in which the Senate should be active, should represent society, should represent the interests of the state, the Polish cause of state, seen in the most appropriate light and form. And that's where I want to start. What I'm trying to say is that we have something to talk about. We've been watching activities related to the devastation of education. Then, when our middle school was in Europe's top five junior high schools, they were eliminated. We were watching the devastation of the Constitutional Court. We have watched the process of devastating justice and prolonging judicial proceedings on an extraordinary scale, and the current project, which shows whether it is using a pandemic to rule without jury or with one judge, shows what the state of affairs really is. We have observed and are still observing the loss of value of the Treasury companies, which are making the purchases we are talking about. We're looking at health care, and we can see that the respirators are being bought by an arms dealer. We observe the situation in the military and the devastation of the most important, most sensitive services. I'm not gonna talk about the helicopter issue anymore. The circumstances, Mr. Senator, determine so much our activity that unfortunately there must be more references to them. The second issue that arises as a fundamental issue in the messages attacking this draft resolution: is it scandalous that the company of the Treasury, the company that the government oversees, buys German media? Well, I would like to make it clear that there are at least two important messages in this. Let me remind you that throughout the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s we listened to Radio Luxembourg, we listened to Radio Free Europe, and they did not belong to Orlen, they did not belong to the Polish state. They belonged to the United States, partly financed by the Germans. But I don't want to go back to that time. I don't want to go back to that time. Although German journalists point out that this may be the case, all these activities and activities limit the right of Poles and Poles to reliable information, i.e. restrict their area of freedom. At the same time, I would like to respond to a suggestion that was included in the first statement by the Senator representing the government team. If PO bought the Polish Press Group via Orlen, there would be a minimum of 1 charge. This is a German company, which has been for sale for 2 years and which nobody wants to buy, suddenly is bought with giant money from the Treasury. For public money, the German entity is supported. Ridiculous? It's absurd, but I know life well, and I know that such an accusation would be formulated. In addition, I would like to make it clear that it is not true that the resolution is to refer to a particular law. Yes, we respond to the announcements, sometimes general announcements, sometimes detailed ones, sometimes referring to specific provisions. We answer so it won't be too late. We answer now because we know that most often what was mild in the announcements becomes much sharper in the final version. We are simply not blowing away as much as we are pointing out the next area that could be severely devastated, and we are predicting the extremely important consequences of this situation. The information on TVN24 grilling was here about the threat of a lack of concession. I know that the National Radio and Television Council keeps pointing out that one more document is needed, that something else needs to be completed, etc., etc. That's not the way the law works. The rule of law does not work in particular on sensitive issues concerning the functioning of foreign investors. And I would like to stress that investments which prejudice the condition of the Polish state have recently fallen by 17%. So if we want to be a serious country, a hospitable, open country, where powerful investors invest in the labour market, in technologies, in young people, then we just have to respect these investors. Third line. Suppose PKN Orlen bought some package to invest in to strengthen it to make local magazines, local titles flourish. But I know what it's gonna look like. What I'm trying to say right now is it's going to look like the fate of Radio Three. We're dealing with a situation where giant public money was put into buying something that barely worked, but it worked. In a moment, we'll be watching how things continue to work under the same economic conditions. Is it an investment made to save something, to flourish, to improve the quality of information, or the other way around? And the last point, very important from the point of view of journalists themselves. I know those journalists who are now constantly known as journalists working in the German media. I want to protest not only explicitly, but also say that the level of journalisticism, the level of integrity, diligence, etc., they exceed many of those who work in government media. Calling them German journalists when they represent the interests of civil society better is bad. I want to stand up for them clearly. It is not possible to lead to a situation in which professional journalists with a lot of experience, working with great reliability, with great dedication, but with small money, without the money of the country, are excluded from the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's the resolution for? Why are we dealing with media freedom in Poland? Because we think it's bad and it's getting worse. If we look at what's happened to the public television since that television took over the new crew, which is the new power... It was that every crew that took over public television changed the presidents or some directors, and the current power, the PiS, removed not a few or a dozen people from this television, but a few hundred journalists. It has removed not only the management pawn, but also several hundred journalists. And this television has become not only the propaganda tube of the ruling PiS, but also part of the political struggle. This TV's on people's backs. There is, for example. The argument that someone likes what Donald Tusk said. We are looking at material on Tusk in the most important information programmes. And what do we hear? There's a German thread, which means Merkel's behind him, and there's a thread of some suspicion about Amber Gold. All this information in the last few decades... And, of course, there are tapes, tape topics that were recorded criminally by waiters and then sold by them and distributed according to some rules. That's what we watch and hear. It's not information, it's just an attack and a sting on people. And it doesn't just concern Tusk. This was also true of President Gdansk, Mr Adamowicz. This applies to everyone who doesn't like the PiS and who doesn't like the PiS. What broadcasts and performs public television is an example of the worst journalism. This is not an example of any journalism at all. In a situation where the State Treasury company, managed by the government And the government is taking over or buying local media, of course with our money, because it's a public company... What's going to happen? What's going to happen, we can predict. Well, politicians should anticipate, know and analyze, and more or less know what's going to happen. Hence this draft, a resolution about dangers. But she's not suspended in a vacuum. It is based on facts that we see and which accompany government policy in Poland. This television has been wiped out of people who may have been suspected of thinking otherwise, but the radio also ends. I'll talk about two journalists. Marek Smartzejewski, who recently had publishing programs and talked to politicians of both sides, opposition and government. Marek Smartzejewski was an activist of "Solidarity," he was interned and it seemed that it would be difficult to join him. Well, he disappears, he disappears from Polish Radio, because he probably doesn't want to do what he's told. Good, because a journalist isn't from doing what he's told, he's not from doing what he wants. And the second example is the editor of Bogoryja-Zakrzewska, a great reporter, great, many awards... She stopped working, recently, at the end of December she was removed from the radio. These are leftovers. And the three of us were already talking about here. The three is an example of how the media is supervised, how the current authority deals with the media. The song turned out to be sad for the president. And after the Trinity. It wasn't that kind of servitism about power. And now the PRL... Am I preparing to print in independent circulation? No, but I do, and I think this resolution is so I don't have to prepare for printing. This resolution is for that. I am not saying that there is a PRL, but in some cases elements of this PRL-bis occur, even in the case of public media. Yeah, it's getting more and more similar now. And so it is also in the realm of ideology. This anti-Germanity, anti-Germanism, which in the Polish People's Republic was for a party ruling a bond with society... Because communism wasn't the glue, it was anti-German. And she took that form. We're talking about the Hungarian example. The Hungarian example is an intermediate example. The Hungarian example is not this pattern, the pattern is elsewhere. The pattern is Putin's Russia. All these activities we observe in Hungary were first rehearsed elsewhere. They were rehearsed in Russia. But this is what I will talk about in the second part of my speech, which will concern the situation in Russia, the situation of repression, the Naval and this danger of building a dictatorial state, which is dangerous for all, dangerous for all neighbours, not only for their own citizens, but also for their neighbours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u167	Thank you very much. As I understand it, there are no more votes. I therefore close the discussion. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Culture and Communications. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski filed for designation... [[Barbara Zdrojewska.]] Sorry, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, sorry. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska has submitted a request for a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. [[There's an objection.]] Is there an objection? I therefore declare a five-minute break. After a five-minute break, we will proceed to the vote on the formal motion. [[And who objected?]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.]] [[Voice from the room: But he did not justify it.]] [[Voice from the room: No, better not.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm the one who called it a break. I've announced a five-minute break, so all the senators' and senator's conversations after the announcement of the break are informal, as I inform you. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 06 to 16 minutes 12]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators to take their seats and prepare for the vote, which is related to the fact that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski He has opposed my proposal to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution at this Senate meeting. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What vote, Mr. Marshal?]] I am convinced that the senator knows what the Senate is discussing, and that question is just a joke. Therefore, the vote to be held now will either be in favour of the proposal or, of course, against the proposal that I put forward and against which Senator Jackowski protested. To carry out the third reading of the draft resolution on the media at this Senate meeting. Who of the senators is in favour of my request to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting? Press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 89 senators voted, 47 senators voted in favour, 41 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 9]] This means that the committee will meet and present a report at this Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution on the subject of sending Aleksey Navalny to the banquet and the brutal suppression of the democratic opposition demonstration by the Russian Federation authorities. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 323 and the report "Print No 323 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft resolution did not raise any controversy at the joint committee meeting. Maybe because it seems obvious to all of us that where civil rights are being violated, it is important to react that when someone is beaten, someone is subjected to torture, where crowds of people are detained on the streets, where the political leader is finally subjected to regular repression and an assassination attempt is organised on his life. This was the case with Alexey Navalny, one of the leaders of the Russian opposition, symbolizing this better democratic face of Russia. In our view, in the opinion of the authors of the draft of this resolution, a good reaction can never be too much. Therefore, this resolution is to be addressed by the European Union, from which we expect an increase and extension of the sanctioning regime imposed on the authorities of the Russian Federation: the authorities of the Russian Federation, which are responsible for both the attempt to murder Aleksey Navalny and later for the decision to send him to the camps, but also for the brutal breakdown of demonstrations which took place in more than 100 cities of the Russian Federation and gathered tens of thousands of citizens, including what later happened to demonstrators and which is not within any international standards. The draft resolution was therefore welcomed by both committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and was adopted by 22 votes for, no one opposed, and 2 abstentions. I promised, ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting, that I would make an autocorrection in connection with the proposal that was made at the committee's meeting to refer to the European Magnite List, which was adopted by the Council of the European Union, this Foreign Affairs Council, last December, and which is another tool to respond to cases such as those that take place in the Russian Federation. And I will also make two self-corrections: one with a linguistic character, so as not to start one sentence from the date, but from the words, and the second, concrete, in which number of cities of the Russian Federation there have been protests. Thank you very much. High Senate, please consider this draft resolution positively because of its importance. We are obliged, as I said at the beginning, to respond in every case and in every country where civil rights are violated, especially in such a brutal and mass manner as in the Russian Federation or in Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u169	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Bogdan Klich. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have two specific questions. First: do you know in which countries similar resolutions have been adopted or are being prepared 'Cause they might be at the preliminary stage right now? Please separate these and these, and, if you don't mind, replace... And then there's the second line. What exactly do we want to propose to the European Union, what do we ask for? What exactly is this repression about? Some can be effective, others can be ineffective... What are we doing here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u171	Thank you so much for that question. I'll make it up to you. We do not expect any repression from the European Union, we expect a response from the European Union, such a response which would go beyond the declarations which would be linked to the application of the sanctioning regime, and in fact the extension of those sanctions which have been in force since 2014, to include all those who are members of the apparatus of power and are responsible, first, for sending Alexei Navalny to the camp, and secondly, for violent violations of civil rights during demonstrations which have passed through the cities of the Russian Federation. That's the answer to the second question. As for the first question, I want to confirm what I said at the committee meeting. I am in constant contact with my counterpart in the Senate of the Czech Republic. The Senate of the Czech Republic had already adopted a resolution on this matter two weeks ago. Yesterday I also spoke with the counterparts in the Lithuanian Sajudis, who informed me, sent the appropriate positions taken jointly by the Lithuanian Foreign Affairs Commission... Seimasu Lithuania, Latvia and the Estonian Parliament. I draw the senator's attention to the fact that there will be a meeting of the European Union Foreign Affairs Council in the near future, and the Council will return to this Russian issue. This will strengthen the voice with which, I hope, Polish diplomacy will take place, expecting an extension of the sanctioning regime imposed on the Russian Federation authorities, I note: on the authorities of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u172	Thank you. If I may add... Excuse me, but I just checked... a very large group of U.S. senators came out of both parties to get the U.S. Senate to take a stand on Navalny. I just checked it out, Mr. Senator probably didn't have time for it. Is there another question? No questions. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] Please take the floor of the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u173	It is very good that we are proceding these two resolutions one after the other, because I want to continue my speech, which I had in the point concerning freedom of the media in Poland. Since President Putin's reign, Vladimir Vladimirovich, the situation in Russia has been getting worse. This is not just about the situation of Russian citizens, about human rights, about the right to assembly, about the right to information, because there are also events that are dangerous to neighbours. The rise of aggression, the aggression against Ukraine, Georgia before... it's all connected. The creation of a stronger, repressive regime in Russia now is also linked to expansion, to imperial policy, which is basically part of Russian policy. All the other voices were suppressed, the other voices couldn't be heard. But now they've come out. The demonstrations that took place within two days of Navalna's arrest... These demonstrations were primarily attended by young people. According to recent information, 11,000 people were detained. If we assume they've been detained, 10% have been caught. protesters, it turns out there were over 100,000 in over 100 cities all over Russia. The causes were compounded. Of course, the direct cause of the protests was what happened to Navalny. He was poisoned with a novice, a poison that could only be found in government arsenals, power arsenals. Neither the production nor storage of this poison is possible except for specialised state units. Then there was the rescue. Naval was rescued at a clinic in Berlin. Here's the German element again. The Germans saved him. What should they do? Should they kill him? I apologize for being mean, but sometimes it's hard to listen to some arguments. The Germans saved him, it was Chancellor Merkel's decision. And then the man who basically came back from that world came to Russia. So? He was arrested immediately. That's what caused... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Homeland.]] He came to his homeland, yes. That's what caused the youth to go out on the streets on a massive scale. The Putin system was built for many years. It was built first by mastering electronic media. For Yeltsin these media were privatized, and Putin started by taking over these media. It wasn't the government that took over. Gazprom took over NTV, not the government. Gazprom is a government company, but it is also partly private. We see how it worked in Russia. Then came the time of the other media. As a result, Russia currently has one independent newspaper and one independent radio Echo of Moscow. Everything else... When it comes to television, it was TV Dożd. She's still here, but only on the Internet. Everything's been pushed online. The legal framework also led to the attack of NGOs. The so-called law was passed. Foreign agents. Whoever got the money from outside of Russia had to put a band on their forehead that says "I'm a foreign agent" and walk around with that sign, with that inscription, to address the public. And why was that sometimes the only way? That's because no state companies gave them money. They stopped giving money to organisations that were not in subjection to the Kremlin. Step by step, a situation was created in which, as it turned out, those who rule may behave like a new class... not bourgeois, but like a new class after some revolution. And this system is being fought by Navalny. He is the enemy, also personal, of Putin, of all his surroundings and of a large part of journalists who are sniffed at such as Navalny, opposition, this non-parlamentary one, because in the Russian Parliament the opposition has long been gone. They are stinged because Navalny has shown their resources over the last two to three years, showing what kind of wealth this new class has built up. He showed their palaces, their houses in Italy and Russia, and finally Putin's palace, to which a man named Rotenberg, a friend of Putin's sparring Jews in St. Petersburg, finally confessed. This palace is impressive, it certainly cost over $1 billion. Apart from the palace there are dozens of hectares of vineyards and various places of rest. The palace itself has 16 floors down, has a separate entrance, has a puncture to... [[Mr. Marshal, 15 minutes...]] Okay, I'm almost done. In this way, Navalny also became the personal enemy of the entire Russian elite, because he showed that she was consumed with corruption, that she made a great deal on the property of the state.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have 2 little reservations about this draft resolution. The first is that it is signed by the Chairs of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I believe that the Human Rights Committee should also be invited to this, because we are talking here mainly about human rights, not about, as would be the case with the Legislative Commission, the creation of law. I don't think it's right that our committee hasn't been invited to do this. As for the text itself, the first line refers to the European Union. I am making an amendment to add words to the European Union to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Why? This is because it is, as it were, the metro pattern in Sèvres for Europe, which is the first and most strongly spoken of on human rights issues. There are already three reports in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, very advanced. And I have to say, for the first time... There have been divisions before because, for political reasons, the west of Europe is very often not so radical in its assessment of Russian activities. But in this case, for the first time since I have been at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I have observed such a strong and joint action beyond this division into the West and the East. There is a very important and very strong report on the poisoning of Aleksey Navalny, which he deals with, surprisingly, the Frenchman and is very radical in his assessments. In view of the situation of Navalny, there is a report prepared by Finn. The Finns are careful because they have too long a border and too much negative experience related to the reactions of Russia or the Soviet Union, but this is again a very strong report. And in the end, the Germans also have a report... Germany is conducting a report on Aleksey Navalny's arrest. And I would like to remind you here that the European Court of Human Rights immediately issued an extraordinary provision concerning Aleksei Navalny, in which he asked the Russian Federation to release him immediately. At the request of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and in particular the Committee on Human Rights and the rule of law, the Venice Commission asked for a revision of this provision, of that judgment concerning the detention of Aleksey Navalny. Finally, the Strasbourg Tribunal also expressed its voice very strongly on the violation of the Convention, which has been in force for the Russian Federation since 1996, as has any country that has joined the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe in general, namely the European Convention on Human Rights. But referring to what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about, I'm going to say that there's some inctim here, which you can see quite clearly. I think there is no disagreement between us that it is good that even the friends of Russia from the West, because some countries, of course, are betting on Russia in such matters, say: we disagree, you have obligations under the treaties, you have signed international obligations and you have to respect them. Is there something wrong with that? Or can we say to ourselves, as we are here, that it is good that there are such instruments of international law, obligations that indicate that a country that violates these obligations is subject to international assessment? If so, it means it's very good. And I think that we will all, as we are voting here, confirm by this vote that international commitments are not an invention that is directed against Hungary, against Poland or Russia. The case of Navalny is to show that divisions do not run between nations, not on the German-Polish border, Ukrainian-Russian border. It's a division inside the country. And we have a duty to support those citizens who are oppressed. We support the Russians. We support the Russians with this declaration. I hope that nobody will tell me that if there are declarations concerning the actions of the Polish government, it is anti-Polish. No, this is supporting Polish citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Senator Bogdan Klich, I understand...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u177	I'd just like to ask... [[That's right, that's right...]] ...what Mr. Marshal has already told us to finish working on the draft resolution at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u178	Following the senator's request, it is a proposal to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. And I declare... [[Voice from the room: Still messages.]] I'm sorry. First, I'm gonna ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u179	Meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media on the consideration of requests submitted at the Senate meeting for a draft resolution on the threat of media freedom in Poland The printing will take place today in room 176, 10 minutes after the adjournment is announced. Then, 20 minutes after the adjournment, a meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union will be held in the same room on the examination of the proposals for a draft resolution on the surrender of Aleksey Navalny to the bang and the brutal suppression of the democratic opposition demonstration by the Russian Federation authorities print No 325. And one last announcement. A meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the consideration of the legislative initiative to amend the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders, Health or Sexual Freedom of Other Persons will take place on 19 February, on Friday 30 minutes after the announcement of a break in the Senate's deliberations, also in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring an hour's recess in our deliberations. [[Voice from the room: What time is it?]] Time-out until 5:00 p.m. [[Room voice: 17.45.]] Yes, until 5:45, which is the time and 1 minute. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 44 to 17 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u181	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 24th, 25th and 26th March 2021. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. [[Voice from the gym: Gentlemen will come, senators will still...]] Yeah, take it easy. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 327. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously at its meeting on 16 February a draft resolution of the Senate on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Bogdan Borusewicz from the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Mroz from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz from the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jerzy Wcisla from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Senate of the Republic elects Senator Krzysztof Mroz to the Legislative Commission, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Wisła to the Legislative Commission. I request the adoption of the proposed text of the Senate resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u183	Thank you very much, senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 98 in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the first item of the agenda: the Foreign Service Act. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of Senator's Law No 316 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favor of this project? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I ask you to do the same. Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Foreign Service Act. We would like to return to the second agenda: the law on the next additional annual financial provision for pensioners in 2021. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act on Senate Print No 314 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to ensure that the 14th benefit is equal for all eligible persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, 3 senators abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Mr. Marshal Kaminski... Pay attention to whether you voted. Attention, amendments 2 and 3 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure the financing of the benefit from the Social Insurance Fund, not the Solidarity Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 13]] We are therefore voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners and pensioners. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment. A minority of committees requests an amendment to the Senate Act No 313 A. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt a law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the request of a minority of committees to amend it. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 48 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that... We proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by a minority of committees to amend the law. The purpose of the minority proposal is to provide a minimum amount of benefit for the pension, partial incapacity pension and partial pension, at the level of the benefit valorisation carried out in 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes against, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Dunin is voting? [[Yes, yes, thank you for your attention...]] It's the emotion. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 99 were in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 312 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law amending the law on road traffic. The Committee on Infrastructure has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to Senator Print No 315 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. This amendment makes it clear that the prohibition of using a telephone or other electronic device in a way that reduces the possibility of observing the situation on the road applies to pedestrians both when entering and crossing the pedestrian crossing. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 2 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 20]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and the Military Ordering Authorities. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 311 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, no one opposed, 48 senators abstained. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the compensation of property losses resulting from the restriction of freedom and human rights and of the citizen during the outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 infection. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 307 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill on the compensation of property damages resulting from restrictions, orders or prohibitions on economic activities introduced in connection with the declaration of an epidemic or epidemic caused by SARS-COV-2 and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the adoption by the High Senate of a uniform bill in print no. 271 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Adam Szejnfeld to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Adam Szejnfeld to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of Entrepreneurs. I would like to remind you that yesterday, a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 200 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law proposed by the committees on the amendment of the Law of Entrepreneurs and the draft resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the Law of Entrepreneurs and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the High Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Law. Following the second reading of the draft law, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is available in print No 286 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Two amendments were tabled. The joint committees ask for both amendments to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u185	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that you have been requested by Senator Halin Bieda and Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, the votes on the amendments will be held. "Print No 286 X' in the order of the project's provisions, followed by the adoption of the draft from print No 286 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to extend the catalogue of entities entitled to submit candidates for the members of the supervisory boards of the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds on behalf of employers or entrepreneurs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 2 introduces a transitional provision allowing for the establishment of new compositions of voivodship supervisory boards of environmental and water management funds without unnecessary delays. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the High Senate authorize Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Environmental Law and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to represent the High Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on State Compensation for victims of certain criminal offences, the Law on Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 91 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 votes against, 1 against, 45 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on State Compensation for victims of certain criminal offences, the Law on Civil Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on bringing this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 239 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law proposed by the committees to amend the law Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Senator Pupa? 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present sitting of the Senate. It is in print No 187 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees considered the only amendment tabled during the plenary session, which was also consulted with the Ministry or was the subject of a dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It concerned the formula of defining the borders of the Polish state from the period II of the Republic of Poland so that it is clear that we use the term most appropriate. The committees recommend adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u187	Thank you very much. I understand that the senator is the applicant, so the same person, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski... Does he still want to speak? No. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and at the same time to the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on Amendment 187 X and then on the adoption of the print project 187 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendment states that compensation and redress on the basis of the amended law will be possible for persons who are oppressed by Soviet law enforcement and justice authorities or out-of-court bodies operating in the current territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as on the territory of the Republic of Poland within the limits of 1 September 1939. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Senator Borusewicz? 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski to represent the High Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski to represent the High Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Persons Deported to Forced Work and Inmates in Labour Camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 217 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Robert Mątkow to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law tabled by the committees on the amendment of the Act on Deported Persons to Forced Labour and Inmates in Labour Camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and the draft resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mątkow to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Parental Supplementary witnessing. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is in print No 272 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission has adopted 2 amendments that regulate documents on foreign children. We recommend their party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u189	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak, senator? Let me remind you that the legislative proposals have also been tabled by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, the votes on the amendments will be held. "Print No 272 X' in the order of the project's provisions, followed by the adoption of print No 272 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 concerns documents submitted by the applicant. It aims to clarify in the case of a child born abroad, as well as prejudices the right of the CSO and KRUS to collect a copy of the birth certificates of children from the register of civil status. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. [[Voting No 33]] They were all in favour. Amendment 2 extends the period of vacathio legis in order to enable the integration of the information systems of the ZUS and the civil status register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Ujazdowski? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. [[Voting No 34]] They were all in favour. We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent the High Senate in further rights over the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted. [[Voting No 35]] They were all in favour. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on parental supplementary witnessing and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent the High Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on sending Aleksey Navalny to the banquet and the brutal suppression of democratic opposition demonstrations by the Russian Federation authorities. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 323 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u190	Mr Marshal, the joint committees recommend the adoption of three amendments. The fourth amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u191	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant still want to speak? No. Let me remind you that you have submitted legislative proposals to Senator Alexander Pociej and Senator Bogdan Klich. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I would remind you that Senator Bogdan Klich withdrew his application, paragraph 3 in print no. 323 X. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments tabled will be put to the vote by print No 323 X We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 of Senator Aleksander Pociej. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 97 in favour, 1 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 2, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 3 has been deleted, withdrawn. Amendment 4, Senator Bogdan Klich. Turn on the apparatus, please. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 96, no one opposed, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 38]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 98 in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In connection with the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the surrender of Aleksey Navalny to the banquet and the brutal suppression of the democratic opposition demonstration by the Russian Federation authorities. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the threat of media freedom in Poland. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 324 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u192	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! During the debate, a request was made to reject the draft resolution. Joint Committees - Culture and Legislative They did not support this request and request the Senate to adopt a draft resolution in print No 324 S.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u193	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that the legislative proposals have been tabled by Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? If not, then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the adoption of the draft resolution contained in print No 324 S. We proceed to the vote on the motion of senators Alexander Swede and Jerzy Czerwiński to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 47 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the draft resolution on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 45 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Rzeszow-Ustrzycki Agreements and the establishment of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution, contained in print No 326 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the committee on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Rzeszow-Ustrzycki Accords and the establishment of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 42]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Rzeszow-Ustrzych Accords and the establishment of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill, contained in print No 328 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Lydia Staroń to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on the Supreme Court and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm presented by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 97 were in favour, no one was against, two stopped. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Lydia Staroń to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21st Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like your attention, please. ...Which content cannot be determined or whose presentation by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? In order, this is Senator Alicia Chybick... [[Voice from the room: I think it's coming down from above.]] Is Senator Chybick available? If not, we'll change the order. Senator Janusz Bladder is here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to Mrs Marleny Maląg, Minister of Family and Social Policy. Dear Minister, I request that legislative amendments be drawn up in the Act of 19 June 2020 amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 1220 • which will lead to equal treatment of women in the year 1953 in the context of determining the basis for calculating the pension. Reason. Following the adoption of the Law of 19 June 2020 amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act, the pension rights of women of the 1953 year seemed to be settled once and for all. However, this did not happen, as hundreds of writings directed, among others, testify. To me by the ladies of the year 1953. The analysis of the sample decisions of the Social Security Office, which are copies of which are in my possession by the courtesy of the ladies of the year 1953, clearly shows that the situation of insured persons born in 1953 is still incompatible with the constitution. The key thing is that there is still differentiation between groups of insured persons. One of them is at a disadvantage compared to insured persons who have not exercised the right to apply for a common age pension and have remained in receipt of the so-called pension. early retirement. I'm not gonna read all this, I'm gonna leave my statement. I would add that from the information that I receive, it is clear that all the victims are preparing to take the court road, which is very difficult for many of them, because it involves a court fee of 180 PLN, which they often cannot afford. I kindly ask the Minister to address this important social issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u195	Thank you very much, senator. Right now, we've got a report from Professor Senator Alicja Chybick. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will cover work on innovative therapies in Poland, in particular on gene therapy. Gene therapy in Poland was used many years ago. Antisensory therapy was used, which was invented by Professor Stec from Łódź. These products were then produced by Germany. In Cape Hope we have one kid saved because of her. This product was not essentially manufactured on an industrial scale by Professor Stec and this research, you might say, collapsed. I hope that the Medical Research Agency will make this situation go away. I also want to talk about the second gene therapy, about the CAR-T cell therapy, which is used worldwide in quite different cancer cases. It was brought to two centres in Poland, one of which is Cape Hope. We use it in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common cancer of children's age, accounting for about 30% of all cancers diagnosed annually, which means 300 cancers per year. Of these 300 children, about 30 have a recurrence. We've managed to cure the first recovery in a large percentage. For this we have a second line, then a third and finally a fourth line, which includes monoclonal antibodies, blinatumomab. And here, as in the case of gene therapy, it was necessary to collect money for children for many years before we received a refund in Poland. But she's here now. Finally, last year the gene therapy CAR-T cells was introduced in Poland, against acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, which in children goes like a storm. The second centre that provides treatment with CAR-T cells in Poland is Gliwice, that is the treatment of lymphoma in adults. Both of these cases are, of course, incomparable, because adult cancers are much slower, and do not lead to death so quickly. Children who from all over Poland go to Cape Hope... Well, there could be a maximum of 15 on a yearly basis. So far we have conducted this procedure with five children and all these children are alive, including the child who lives the longest, and will soon be celebrating the anniversary. Imagine that for us oncologists who work for many years, it looks like a miracle. Well, the whole cancer's gone, even though it's the fourth shot. This therapy has a chance to become a first line therapy, because it's much milder than chemotherapy, than radiotherapy, which sometimes has to help us in various conditions. It is also more beneficial than transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells, which is intended in this case for megachemotherapy and therefore very high doses of cytostatics. Unfortunately, despite many promises from the government that have been made to me personally, this refund has not yet been paid. On a national scale, we raise money for these five children. Right now, she's fighting for her life, 14-year-old Marta, who doesn't have that money yet. He's got 400,000 zlotys and nine days to pick 'em out, 'cause time's killing it here. And here's the situation: in the same period, since the first treatment of CAR-T cells, all the children, or the entire 15, died, and these five are alive. I would like to thank all the senators who have signed an appeal to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Allow me to read your names. In alphabetical order they signed: Paweł Arndt, Halina Bieda, Ryszard Bober, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Marcin Bosacki, Jacek Bury, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, me, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwiński, Robert Dowhan, Artur Dunin, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Stanisław Gawłowski, Benjamin Godyla, Stanisław Gogacz, Tomasz Grodzki, Janusz Gromek, Jolanta Hibner, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Magdalena Kochan, Kazimierz Klein, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Władyszław Komarnicki, Wojciech, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Józef Łiwska, Beata Małecka-Libera, Szk, Szman, Szbek Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padek, Padew, Padek Padew, Padew, Padek Padew, Padecz, Padek Padek Padek Padek, Padek, Pade, Padek Padeb, Padeb, Padeb, Padeb, Padek Padek Padek Padew, Padek Padew, Padek Padew, Padek, Pade, Padek Padew, Padew, Padew, Padeb, Padeb, Padek Padek Padek Padek Padek Padek Padek Padek Padew, Padew, Padew, Padew, Padewski P I am convinced that many more people, except those who refused to sign and refused me that most... most probably aren't on this list because there was no opportunity, but I believe that everyone, really, has the fate of children who are fighting for their lives. But does it really have to be like this? I hope that Prime Minister Morawiecki will at the moment come up with a negative opinion of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification... In this statement, I have the main and most important question: who made the negative opinion? Did one child oncohematologist participate in the Transparency Board panel? I'm asking because, like I said, it's a completely different disease than what's happening in adults. Who sentenced the children to death, knowing that you can't do randomized tests, because no bioethical commission in Europe and the world... I may have said unnecessarily in the world, because I do not know what would have been done in faraway countries, but in civilized countries no one will consent to such a test. Well, you'd have to say, "Jasiu, life, Mary's death." You can't do that. You can't do that. Finally, the rhetorical question. I've been working for over 40 years. Will I live to see... No, I'm probably not gonna see a time when the situations I've been watching over and over again over the last 46 years aren't gonna happen anymore. Access to innovative medicines that save lives should not depend on the donations of people of good will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. At the moment, Senator Ewa Matecka will make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I join Senator Alicja Chybicki's appeal, and I also make such an appeal to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. I call on him to reverse this situation so that the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification looks back at this proposal and gives a positive opinion. We must finally stand on the side of children's lives, we must give them hope when there is no hope for them. We must treat Polish children with modern technologies that are effective, verified, tested and applied worldwide. This is my first statement. The second statement is also addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. In recent weeks, both local governments and parliamentarians from Wielkopolska have been concerned about the process of allocating a new tranche of EU funds for each region. Drastic, because 50% reduction in the amount of grants for Wielkopolska is as surprising as it is incomprehensible. Since Poland has become a beneficiary of European funds, in Wielkopolska these funds have been used with the highest efficiency. The investments made by them in the vast majority of cases are not purely local, but improve the functioning of the whole country. They are often part of international projects. Both government reports and independent financial and economic analyses provide evidence of the effectiveness and accuracy of the investment decisions taken by Wielkopolska authorities. It is therefore all the more surprising to try to marginalize the voivodship, which contributes so much to the economic success of the whole country and becomes the engine of civilizational changes radiating all over Poland. Joining the call of the Marshal of Wielkopolska Voivodship, Mr Mark Woźniak, as well as the people of Wielkopolska, I ask the Prime Minister to take into account the fact that the funds for the region were being reduced in the first hand and to compensate for these losses when the remaining EUR 7 billion were split up, which would go to individual voivodships after further negotiations. Today, our country cannot afford to slow down development leaders, as this results in a slowing down in the long term also in areas that copy precursor solutions and projects created in Wielkopolska. Over the years, Wielkopolska has also shown that it is willing to share knowledge and experience that it effectively supports and promotes domestic entrepreneurship, also outside the country. Often, mainly thanks to cyclical trade fairs, it becomes a gateway to Polish companies in Europe and other parts of the world. However, it should be borne in mind that such an efficient investment and promotional mechanism must be adequately powered. Otherwise, it will be difficult to maintain efficiency and efficiency at the current level. Therefore, without undermining the rank and importance of other regions, we can say with all our power that proper financial support of the Wielkopolska voivodship lies in the vital interest of the Polish economy and is important for the image of our country as a reliable business partner in international relations. This statement is made on behalf of myself, Senator Janusz Błucherz and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, you're making a statement from Senator Benjamin Godyl.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment, Mr Michael Kurtyki. It concerns the logging of forests in the Kędzierzyn-Kozielski district. Dear Minister, In connection with the planned logging of forests in the Kędzierzyn-Kozielski district, I kindly ask you to explain why this is to be done on such a large scale. The inhabitants of settlements located in Kędzierzyn-Koźlu fear that they will lose a natural protective barrier that separates them from chemical plants operating in the district. In our country, the rate of tree cutting has increased alarmingly in recent years, and therefore there is concern that the plan of such a large cut-off of forests beyond the desire to protect the tree stands is intended to obtain funds from the sale of raw materials. I ask you kindly to intervene in this matter and, if possible, to limit the planned cut-off. I would also like to present: firstly, the details of the planned tree clipping for the coming years, broken down by commune, in the kędzierzyn-kozielski district, secondly, the data on the area of cut-out forests in the Kędzierzyn-kozielski district and the financial resources collected for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2020, broken down by year. As the residents are very concerned about this situation, I would also ask them to organise meetings with the residents of the county and field walks where they will be informed in detail about the situation and explain to them the reasons for the clippings of the trees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u201	Thank you very much, senator. You will now make a statement by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This statement is made on behalf of myself and Senator Magdalena Kochan and Senator Janusz Gromek. It concerns the situation which is now taking place in the Polish Baltic Shipping. Well, today in Kołobrzeg there were protests of PJB employees. The employees stood up for the lately dismissed president of the Polish Baltic Shipping, the man who worked in PŻB for the last 15 years. Political options were changing in Poland, but Mr Redmerski, working as a financier, vice president of financial affairs, was treated by various options as an expert and expert. And it turned out that when there was a good change, there was no place for him in this company, an institution so important for Poland, for the Western Pomerania. President Redmerski was forced by PiS politicians to make decisions to the detriment of the Polish Baltic Shipping, even when it comes to the construction of the already famous ferry. He was aware that the decision to purchase a new ferry at the shipyard, which had never really implemented such buildings, would lead to a disaster in Poland. And he's the one who pulled this company out of serious financial trouble. He was also forced to spend and transfer money, and in total about 12 million, on things that did not really contribute to improving the financial condition of the Polish Baltic Shipping. I hope that in the not too distant future all these matters will be settled. But the truth is, I'm quite bitter with PiS politicians. Although I should not use words of bitterness, the fact that PiS refused to employ his family in the Polish Baltic Shipping, a family which had previously been released from another public institution for purely alcoholic reasons. He also refused to hire the wife of the president of the PiS council club in Kołobrzeg as the director of this company, in which 100% He's got the Treasury. This ended with Mr Redmerski being dismissed, the wife of the chairman of the council club has been employed in recent days, and the employees of the company have started protesting. Nepotism, guyshood, actions to the detriment of Poland, actions to the detriment of the State Treasury company It is characterized by today's PiS. I am asking the Prime Minister when he intends to stop these actions when he intends to stop the guys and nepotism by Hoca, Brudziński, Chief engineer. You've really had enough of this Western Pomerania draining, because you're only hurting this region. That's enough, Prime Minister. Please start taking care of the interests of Poland, about the Polish ferry carrier in the Baltic Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u203	Thank you very much, senator. The statement will now be made by Senator Bogusław Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to your marshal. I'm appalled by your Marshal's so-called speech. women's strike in October 2020 in Szczecin. This statement showed that the Marshal supported the actions of this completely unrepresented group of all women. As a woman with these ladies, I have no intention of identifying myself. My special outrage was caused by the fact that Marshal Tomasz Grodzki spoke on behalf of himself as Marshal of the Senate and on behalf of all senators. I certainly didn't give the marshal permission to speak on my behalf, so he couldn't speak on behalf of all the senators. Were you, when you were a Senate marshal, trying to disenfranchise us? It is equally shocking that Mr. Tomasz Grodzki at this assembly expressed his support for people whose behaviour raises great reservations. There's no permission to use the language of hatred, aggression, vulgarism. Does he approve or even support the Senate Marshal, the third person in the state? The person who took an oath of action for the sake of the Republic of Poland supports the actions of people seeking to destroy their homeland? As Marshal of the Senate? I ask the marshal to always consider how much damage our state is doing, but also not to speak on behalf of all senators if he has not obtained their consent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. Your statement will be made by Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Health introduced by the surprise regulation amended the rules for financing hospitals in the field of pediatrics. Instead of a lump sum paid so far every month, from the beginning of this year the NFZ will pay for the benefits actually performed. The situation in Czestochowa should be cited as an example. By amending the agreement, the Silesian Regional Branch of the NFZ informed the City Hospital in Częstochowa that since January 2021 the hospital will no longer receive a lump sum for treatment, but measures for as many patients as it will actually receive. In addition, the lump sum was reduced on the basis of the performance of benefits in 2019. The NFZ did not take into account the performance of the contract in 2020. When the paediatric ward was active during the pandemic. For hospitals such as Municipal Hospital Zespółony w Częstochowa this means a drastic decrease in income from NFZ, because during a pandemic, when children do not go to school, do not play sports, do not go away for rest, and therefore they are less ill and less injured, which consequently causes failure of the contract. However, the hospital must bear the fixed costs of the operation of the branch, connected among others. with the provision of staff to be paid. Changing flat-rate funding to pay for execution destabilizes pediatric branches. Following the protests of paediatric hospitals, the Ministry of Health withdrew from the original assumptions and amended the Regulation of 9 February 2021, which guarantees the possibility for paediatric hospitals to receive funding from the NFZ at the current level. Payment 100% However, a lump sum for paediatric hospitals, excluding district hospitals in which paediatric branches operate, constitutes unequal treatment of medicinal entities. I therefore request that changes in the financing rules for district hospitals in the field of paediatric branches be withdrawn and introduced only when the COVID-19 pandemic is over and hospitals can normally function and receive small patients. I would like to ask for equal treatment of all healthcare providers providing pediatric services and for a revision of the regulation enabling district hospitals to pay 100% of their funding. the amount resulting from the contract, as in the case of paediatric hospitals. In this case, the Ministry has corrected its error by amending the rules which allow for the application of solutions to maintain the liquidity and adequate level of revenues of medical institutions. True, this solution was probably only introduced for three months. I ask you kindly to answer my questions as to whether the honourable Minister will accept my requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-19-senat-21-3.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first 20th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 19 minutes 07]]
