ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u1	Resume session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely, I inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting, and therefore I ask that you hand over any vote to confirm the presence of the voting machine when it is included in the vote. [[Senator Zdrojewski.]] Senator Zdrojewski on this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u2	Yes, I am in this very case, on the Marshal's message, which we begin every day of the sitting. I would like to draw attention to one point that may be important to some ladies and senators. This is the vote that the Marshal is talking about only a test vote. And there's no problem when it's a voting block. But I would like to point out that since today is just a vote on the so-called. An anniversary resolution, and in official senate materials, a test vote is considered to be a vote included in the statistics, those who do not take part in this test vote alone will have a 50% presence in the votes. I pay attention to this because perhaps some senators are not aware of it. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u3	Thank you very much for your good attention. Well, senators have a free senator's mandate, and if they don't want to vote, they don't vote, although it's a duty. [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] [[Voice from the room: We don't count...]] Wait a minute. I'll get the results, and then... Please report the results. [[Voice from the hall: No, we don't count this vote.]] Wait a minute. Please report the results. 77 senators voted. [[Voting No 5]] So many senators are currently attending the meeting. I got it from the so-called. The moat information that it is not counted for presence, so that perhaps the senator has bad information. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[It's counted.]] [[I'm gonna...]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. [[...information for Senator Zdrojewski.]] Well, Mrs. Justyna... [[Voice from the room: It is counted...]] [[If there is, for example. Only one test vote, that's 100% absence.]] [[Yes, sir.]] How do you know that? [[Well, they have this practice...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] The first was Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, maybe I can explain this to all my colleagues. The absences are counted from 10 votes. Therefore, if there are 2 votes on the day of the sitting, whether or not the senator is taking part in these votes It's a different matter why he doesn't take it. This is irrelevant for counting absences, except, of course, that the list shows that it did not vote. That's it. It doesn't give rise to the effects you thought Senator Zdrojewski would have. I wanted to explain. Thank you. [[We don't want that to happen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u5	I close the discussion on this other interesting matter. Director Obermeier, please give the senators, so to speak, written information about what it really looks like, because I can see that there are some conspiracy theories, legends and myths about it. So, I'm asking you to explain this in an objective manner. High Izbo, I propose that the following items be added to the agenda: the Act amending the Electronic Service Act and considering it as item twenty-second of the agenda; consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman and consider it as item twenty-third of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that there will be another law on climate issues, but only after the committee has completed its work. Perhaps tonight it will be introduced and discussed at this meeting. The committee will meet today. I would like to inform you that we will proceed to the point concerning the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman tomorrow, i.e. On 18 June, after considering the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The vote will take place immediately after considering this point. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the 4th deportation. I would like to welcome the guests present at the meeting: Mr Mieczysław Pogodzinski, Vice President of the General Board of the Sybirak Union, welcome to... [[Applause]] ... Mr Jarosław Szark, President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. [[Applause]] The President will still have a second role to play, right after this point and probably after the break will be the President's report, for which we thank you. Hello, Mrs. Monica Greyko, Head of the Permanent Museum of Sibir Memory in Bialystok,... [[Applause]] ... from another beautiful and interesting, worthy to visit; Mrs Monica Kalinowska, director of the department in the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. [[Applause]] Welcome to the Senate. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 424. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! As Mr Marshal mentioned, the draft resolution was agreed between clubs and wheels. In this context Thank you, Senator Halina. Another anniversary resolution, a resolution, can be said to refer to our history, is a commemoration of important events that have affected the Polish people who have touched Poland. The 18th anniversary of the fourth deportation to Siberia, the last deportation by the Soviet Union, is an important event. At the same time, we must mention the whole background of this execution that the Polish people met. The authorities of the then Soviet Union, the communist Soviet authorities did not forgive Poland, the Poles, that they did not participate in the world revolution, and even thwarted it during the Polish-Bolshevik war in 1920. The first export took place on 10 February, basically at night from 9 to 10 February 1940. The first 3 exports took place within a fairly short period of time, at practically 2-month intervals. This was due to the fact that the transports that exported Polish citizens were actually going and coming back. This was the time it took logistically to get out and come back, it was about two months, hence such breaks, this was what it looked like in 1940. The last export was in 1941, just before Barbarossa's plan. You could say that if there was no plan for Barbarossa, we would most likely all be taken to Siberia. It was, you have to say, the extermination of the Polish people, it was genocide carried out in the East. In this respect, Pope John Paul II used the phrase "The Golgotha of the East." This concept of the East Golgotha includes exports to Siberia, as well as Katyn. It must be said that the area to which the Poles were transported was 2.6 million km2, while Poland currently has about 314 thousand km2, so it was an area equal to 9 times the current area of our country. It was a huge surface, and the climatic conditions that prevailed there were unimaginable. The export order, the way it was exported was inhumane. It was an inhuman land to which the Poles were transported. Working in Siberia was a work beyond strength, according to the principle of who does not work, he does not eat. As a result of exports made You can say that. Our nation's biological existence has been threatened. It was something unimaginable on a global scale. But Siberia and exports to Siberia were somehow so unfortunately included in the history of Poland, because we remember that in Siberia had already been transported to the bar confederates, were taken away participants of the Kościuszko Uprising, the November Uprising, the January Uprising. It should also be remembered that from those areas which were covered by the Soviet Union, exports to Siberia lasted until the 1950s. So it was huge. How many people have been generally exported, it's hard to say. These are estimates, estimates that say a few hundred thousand, even a few million... to 1.5 million, to 2 million people under Soviet restrictions. It can be said that nearly 2 million people have been subject to these restrictions. In this respect, after the war events, even during World War II, after the signing of the agreement between General Sikorski and Ivan Majski in 1941 and the announcement of the amnesty... The signing of this agreement at that time may not have enjoyed some big applause, but it was possible to release a large number of Poles, a really large number of Poles. All this deportation, all this export... one can say that the consequences are still present, because to this day in Kazakhstan, the population of Polish origin lives in Siberia. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, I would like to read the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 17 June on commemorating the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the 4th deportation... And here I would like to say that there is an obvious typographic error in the title, that the fourth is written not in Roman, but in words. At the turn of May and June 1941, there was a fourth, last deportation of the Polish population into the Soviet Union, including Siberia. The Soviet authorities' mass exports, the first of which took place on 10 February 1940, were unprecedented events on a global scale during the 1940 '41 period. Deportations were the result of a seizure in September 1939 by the Soviet Union and the effect of the Stalinist regime directed against the Polish people, among others in retaliation for the Polish-Bolshevik war in 1919 and 1921. Several hundred thousand Poles were deported. Many of them did not survive the transport itself, the conditions of which were very difficult, and the mortality was about 10%. Many Poles in Siberia died of starvation, cold, disease, and exhaustion caused by physical labor beyond strength. It was only on 30 July 1941 that Władysław Sikorski signed the agreement with Ivan Majski in London and announced in August 1941 the amnesty against the exiles that gave the deportees and Polish prisoners legal gulags the possibility to create in 1942. Polish Armed Forces under the command of General Władysław Anders. Some 120,000 soldiers and civilians were rescued in this way. Despite the fact that 80 years have passed since the last deportation, the effects on families affected by it continue until today, and many of the Polish people still live in the former Soviet Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is convinced of the possibility of their return to the Mothers. The Senate of the Republic of Poland honors and pays tribute to all victims of Soviet repression, especially those deported. This is the text of the draft resolution. Let me just mention that in the first export 70% Poles were deported, in the second export of 80% were women and children. According to historians and persons investigating exports and stays in Siberia, 30% of these people died annually, and this was the death rate in Siberia. There were such districts, such areas of exiles of Poles in which no one survived there, and there were also those where few individuals lived. Thank you and I ask the High Senate to accept the draft resolution presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u7	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alexander Swed was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Between 10 February 1940 and the turn of May and June 1941 The NKVD conducted 4 mass deportations of the Polish population into the Soviet Union, among others. Siberia. The senator was talking about respect. According to the estimates of the Polish authorities, about 1 million civilians were sent to Siberia in exile as a result of exports from 1940 to 1941, although the Soviet documents clearly refer to a low number of 320,000 exported. Siberia, Kazakhstan became a grave for thousands of Polish exiles. They died of cold, starvation, disease, and torture work. Many died on the way, thousands did not return to the country. Among the deported were mainly military families, officials, forest and rail workers from the eastern pre-war areas of Poland. It was a big operation that had one purpose: the destruction of Polish Kresów. The Soviets carefully planned the deportations. Hundreds of thousands of Poles decided about exports by the highest representatives of Soviet power. Józef Stalin, head of the NKVD, Łavrientij Beria and the National Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Wiacheslaw Molotov. Deportation orders were issued in Moscow as early as December 1939. On the basis of these instructions, instructions were drawn up for NKVD field cells responsible for cleaning the western parts of the Soviet republics of Ukraine and Belarus. Deportations were carried out according to the names drawn up by NKVD officers in cooperation with local communists. We must remember that the Soviet authorities treated exports not only as a form of fight against political enemies, but also as part of the extermination of Polish elites and, above all, the possibility of using thousands of people as free labour. The torture work in Siberian taiga, reaching several dozen degrees of freezing, famine, and disease, killed many exiles. It was a thoughtful and planned crime on the Polish people. Today, thanks to the initiative of Senator Marek Komorowski, for whom I thank you very sincerely, the Senate of the Republic of Poland honors and pays tribute to all victims of Soviet repression, especially those deported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President of the Siberian Union! Mr. President of the Institute of National Remembrance! Dear guests! Of course, I would like to thank Senator Mark Komorowski, because he was the initiator of the resolution, which was signed by representatives of all political groups sitting in the Senate. It is obvious, and it is very good that in the crowd of various anniversaries this very painful anniversary of the fourth deportation will not be forgotten. We will express our memory and pay tribute to the victims of the criminal Soviet, Stalinist policy in the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add something here which, of course, cannot be done in the resolution, because this is not a historical lecture. I would like to draw attention to one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, for historical reasons in the literature, regarding the research of Soviet repression against Poles... During the period of the PRL there was a very limited possibility of conducting studies, only later could these studies develop. The research focused mainly on the assessment and description of the repression by the Germans during World War II. We have a similar situation when it comes to specialist research, for example in social psychology. If there were works that emphasized, which meant repression for individual people, there were examples of German repression. The literature on the psychological consequences of the deportation and the operation of the apparatus of repression against Polish citizens is very small, I stress: not only Poles, but Polish citizens. From the Soviet Union. Here I would like to invoke my sister's research, Dr. Hab. Ewa Jackowska, who wrote a monograph on the psychological effects of deportation into the Soviet Union. She based her work on a few hundred Siberians who were still alive. It was a work that was prepared 20 years ago, and it took 20 years to work on it. Unfortunately, many witnesses of those events, very many, the vast majority of those who survived... To this day, few survived. Based on the interviews conducted, the most severe stressors, stress factors, were categorized and characterized, acting on the test subjects during deportation. They included night invasions of armed enclaves, threatening, calling names and keeping fathers under arms to force their family to leave their homes. That's one thing. Secondly, a few weeks' transport to the places of departure under conditions that defy hygiene and respect for personal dignity, locking in crowded, dirty, cattle cars without heating and toilets. Third, living conditions on deportation, crowding in barracks, earthenware and stickies, lack of equipment with basic equipment, inability to heat rooms, low temperatures, no water supply, no toilets, no worms, no beard. Fourthly, climate phenomena: low temperatures, snowstorms, i.e. Burns, melts, floods, heat. We focus here on Siberia, but there was a whole group deported to Kazakhstan, and in Kazakhstan in winter temperatures reach 45, while in the summer to +45 and even to +50, we see what amplitude is every year. And under these conditions in the field... Those senators who went to meetings with Polonia in Kazakhstan as part of the committee that deals with Poles abroad could see how these conditions in Kazakhstan, not only in Siberia, were tragic. Fifthly, there are no basic foods, permanent hunger sensations, somatic and mental signs of starvation. Sixth, heavy, destructive physical work. Seventhly, repression by Soviet officials and teachers at school. Eight o'clock, family break-up, stay in children's homes This was particularly true for children. And the loss of parents or loved ones. After all, the drama was that the family was displaced, deported, and some members of the family in front of the others simply died for various reasons, under tragic conditions. In addition, severe life - threatening somatic diseases and injuries, life - threatening and death - threatening loved ones. The scale of these sufferings is simply shocking, so it is worth returning to this issue so that in the future such events in the history of nations simply never happen again. I would also like to draw attention to two important figures related to this draft resolution. First on Józef Czapski, who was deported and who later That's what Senator Komorowski mentioned. After signing the Mayan-Sikorski Agreement, he was the organizer of the search and was looking for, among others. those Polish officers whom he did not know had already been murdered genocide in Katyn and Mednoje, innocent towns. He wrote a book that went to the canon of this type of literature and was translated into many languages, on inhuman soil. This is a 1946 classic. This book has been translated into all major European languages. The second figure, very interesting, is Father Tadeusz Federowicz from Lasek, who in 1940, with the permission of the Archbishop of Bilczewski, voluntarily went as pastoral care for Poles deported to Kazakhstan. He volunteered, so he was in the third deportation, the one that took place between May and July 1940. Of course, he performed pastoral ministry in disguise, that is, under conspiracy conditions, he did not reveal himself, but he did the ministry. For organisational reasons, he could not report to the Anders Army and returned to Poland with the Berling Army. This was also the case, because after 1943, for many of these people the only chance to get out of these tragic conditions was to join the organized in these areas by, well, Communists, but nevertheless the army. So that these fates are confusing, difficult, very painful and shocking. Father Tadeusz Federowicz witnessed his experiences and what was going on there in his famous book "Dear Providence." To conclude, I would like to say this: thank you, Mark, for preparing this important date. I hope that the Senate will unanimously adopt this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u11	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made her speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the fourth deportation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on commemorating the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the fourth deportation. I now ask you to approach the Presidential Table of Mr Mieczysław Pogodzinski, Vice President of the General Board of the Sybirak Union. I'd like to give you the Senate resolution. [[Everybody up.]] You're welcome to help the president. [[Vice President of the General Board of the Sibiraków Association Mieczysław Pogodziński: I am vaccinated so that I...]] [[Voices from the hall: So do we. We're healthy, too.]] Everyone's okay. Come on in. Mr President, it is my honor and honour to present this resolution to you on behalf of the Senate of the Republic of Poland as an expression of our homage to those who have suffered only because they are Polish citizens, and have passed the Gehenna commemorated in many historical works. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the General Board of the Sibirak Union and on behalf of all Sibiraks, whose country still has more than 18 thousand, in particular exported as children... I was also deported as a child, but already at the age of 12, I was transported in the first export, because my father was a military settler, a soldier of the war of 1920 in the defense of Warsaw, so that he was the one who was on the fork of our Eastern friends, the Soviet Union. I will not go back to the history of the Sibirak Union, because it was very well referred to in the speech of the Senator and in the speeches of the debaters. I just want to say that everything that's been said is true. Personally, as a 12-year-old boy, I worked in the woods because instead of 200 g of bread you could get 400 g. I helped in cutting branches of cut trees and burning fire that was needed, because people, Poles were not prepared to work on snow for 12 hours, from dawn to night, and therefore without such a fire that could be warmed hands, could not work. There was talk of a third of people being killed. In my family too, unfortunately, my mother remained there, lying somewhere in the woods, in a cemetery like this, of course, there's no way to find it or ever light a candle in the name of the sibiraks. I would like to say that there are still about 1,000 former Siberian exiles in Warsaw, those who were sent as children who are still alive and working. Our relationship has over 50 troops all over the country because the shipment was so massive that those who arrived... There have been over 100,000 people in our relationship for a long time. At the moment, we're less than 1/5, but that's, of course, a natural matter. On behalf of the Siberian Union, I thank you very much for this resolution, for this initiative. She is extremely important to us, because we try to commemorate the phenomenon of these exiles by contacting schools and cooperating with the Institute of National Remembrance, which helps us in this regard. And I have to say that there have been several exhibitions of one of our sibiraks, Professor Kulon, who is just a famous author, a sculptor. No, among others. He commemorated the entire message in the form of a sculpture. Several such exhibitions were held at the Institute of National Remembrance at the Marshal's 21/25. In addition, I would like to say that it was in cooperation to commemorate this phenomenon that the Institute of National Remembrance gave us a monument or grave of an unknown sibirak in the cemetery of Powęzkowski. On June 23rd, which is about a week from now, there will be an unveiling, a sacrifice of this grave. These are the most current phenomena. As for what was said about this famine, I personally survived and hunger, and cold, and all diseases such as chicken blindness. In fact, all my teeth were moving, and there were other types of dysentery. Well, those were the conditions, as is said here, and certain things cannot be completely described. I don't do that. Thank you very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u13	Thank you very much. [[Vice-President of the General Board of the Sibiraków Association Mieczysław Pogodziński: If possible, we will be glad to get acquainted with... Oh, we will get acquainted with the resolution. Yes?]] Yes. [[Vice President of the General Board of the Sibiraków Association Mieczysław Pogodziński: We would like to thank you.]] She was read by your senator. [[Vice-President of the General Board of the Sibiraków Association Mieczysław Pogodziński: I understand that I can now miss the meeting.]] Thank you very much. [[Vice President of the General Board of the Sibiraków Association Mieczysław Pogodziński: Thank you very much. Goodbye.]] [[Applause]] Your Senate, I must announce a recess by 12:30 at the moment. I am announcing this because of the opening ceremony of an exhibition dedicated to one of the fathers of modern Europe. The report of the Institute of National Remembrance will be considered later on. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 44 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u14	We proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. The text of the information is contained in print No 388. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 26 May 2021, the Commission heard and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance present at the Senate meeting of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, Mr Jarosław Szark. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you for your initiative of the resolution on the anniversary of the fourth deportation of the citizens of the Republic into the Soviet Union, and at the same time thanking the Vice President of the Sybirak Union, Mr Mieczysław Pogodziński, for these words of appreciation, thanks for the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. I think he gave up what the Institute of National Remembrance also does. We always wanted our story about history, research not alone, but in cooperation with other institutions. Only last year there were 520 such institutions that cooperated with the IPN, including the Sibirak Union. But on this list is also the Senate of the Republic of Poland. A recent exhibition in the Senate devoted to the Third Silesian Uprising, another such initiative... There are universities, there are schools, there are local governments. This is the story of our story. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is almost 2.5 thousand employees, 11 branches, 6 delegations. These employees are the capital of the Institute of National Remembrance. Nearly 90% of them have a higher education. It's an archival, educational, scientific activity. It's commemoration, searching for the remains of our heroes. It's a illustrative activity, it's a criminal prosecution committee against the Polish Nationals. It is an archive that has a collection of 93 km of materials left behind by the communist security camera, but also the former Nazi crime investigation committee, as it was then called. It is a publishing house, at this moment the largest publishing house in Poland dealing with publications on the history of the 20th century. Only last year we published 308 publications. These are serious monographs. These are memories, albums, but also an offer for the youngest: brochures, comic books. Ladies and gentlemen, two hours ago, there was a drama of the fourth deportation in this room. These years 1939 and 1941, the period of consequences of what happened in the eastern lands after the signing by both totalitarian powers of the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany The Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, then the start of World War II on September 1 and September 17th... The history of the Institute of National Remembrance has been involved for years, and last year was a special year, because it was the eightyth anniversary of this first deportation, the most dramatic, April 10, 1940, but also another date: spring of 1940, Katyn's crime. Institute of National Remembrance for these anniversaries Knowing that the public's attention will be focused around them He has been preparing many initiatives for years. Because that's how we operate at the National Remembrance Institute. This isn't an emergency. At this point, we already have plans for a few or several years ahead. The presidents of the National Remembrance Institute are changing, but the direction of the National Remembrance Institute, designated by the National Remembrance Institute Act, does not change. There are several initiatives from last year that are part of what we have just heard here. First deportation... These are commemorative plaques, among others. at the railway station in Łomża, where our compatriots were deported from in 1940, plates dedicated to policemen exported and murdered in Katyn's crime. These are publications related to the Katyn crime, among others. We completed last year's edition, issuing the third and last volume of one of the basic sources of Katyn's crimes, namely the Katyn Forest Mord. Hearings before the American commission of Madden in 1951 and 1952. In 2003 nearly 7 000 documents of this committee were sent to Poland. Thanks to the Institute of National Remembrance, this very important source was released; last, third volume, last year. But, ladies and gentlemen, this time after 17 September also applies to other publications. Cooperation with our Ukrainian partners has been very good for many years. This is cooperation at the level of archives of the former Security Service of Ukraine, the equivalent of the communist security apparatus. And we just spent the tenth volume last year because of this anniversary. Introduction to this volume, over a thousand pages, was written by the President of Ukraine, President of Zelenski and President Andrzej Duda. And the title of this publication is: Order No 001353. Proscription operation NKVD from 1939 to 1941. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's important for the Institute of National Remembrance to give a voice to witnesses so that they can testify about the story they co-created. Last year we were able to publish an extraordinary publication, you can say, peers of the president of Pogodziński, 13-year-old Wanda Barbara Kociuba, who was deported into the Soviet Union. These are the shocking memories of "The Bible. " Instead of your smile, Poland, we have tears and a smile of misery. A diary from Siberia, Iran and Lebanon. These memories came to the Institute of National Remembrance thanks to the action of the Archiwum full of memory taken a few years ago. This teenage girl's family, this girl, has passed on these memories. They live in the United States, and the author was also in the UK. Well, it was transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance. We have been informing about this action for several years now, and our goal is to save the priceless legacy, which is often in the hands of the next generation of our compatriots, especially in the West. They do not know the Polish language, but these diaries, these family memories, these letters are saved thanks to this action. Two days ago, a delegation from the Senate, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, visited the Institute's archives. You've seen the original of these memories of this girl's drawings. But we also carry out educational activities around this topic. Our offer goes to school. We want this story of history to be associated with the sensitivity of contemporary young people, to whom images and new technologies speak more than the traditional word. And hence, you can say, the forerunner multimedia exhibition. Last year, for the first time, we presented the exhibition entitled: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The story of several victims of the Katyn crime has been told from today's perspective. It was told in half an hour's film material, we did it using audiovisual media. You could say it's an exhibition on the Internet. Where's the 20 coming from? Well, it goes through these people's biographies, Katyn's victims, Katyn's crime. Many of them have in their lives an element of war in 1920. This exhibition shows their final path to the pits of death, during which the paintings of 1920 appear in front of their eyes. And the narrator is And that's where the last 20 of them came from. A young boy living in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, 2020... Of course, we remember Martyrology, we remember the fate of our compatriots during World War II. The story of World War II is particularly important at this point, because abroad there are many contradictions about these stories. I think the number of these contradictions will increase if the Polish state is not active here. The easier it is to say that the last witnesses who remember that time are leaving. Hence all the initiatives of the Institute of National Remembrance to describe and investigate this time of German occupation. 'Cause contrary to what's been going on here lately... Senator Jackowski, who said that until 1980, history of the consequences of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact and 17 September had been absent from memory and research. The focus was on the German occupation. Well, it was, actually. Ladies and gentlemen, the areas that are still unexplored today regarding World War II are huge. And these areas, unfortunately, are not addressed outside the Institute of National Remembrance to the right extent. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a look at the university publications, their bookstores, the grants that are granted. Is the issue of World War II really there, as it deserves and as we are obliged to do? We as Institute of National Remembrance do it because we are legally obliged to do it, but we also want to do it. There's also the question that for many years... Only recently is this time of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, involvement in scientific research, commemoration, preparation of educational materials, workshops for teachers, in what we call the Pomeranian crime. It's about this Pomeranian Katyn, the destruction of the elite in Pomerania. I am glad that it was in the Senate of the Republic of Poland that we presented, with the participation of the state, a film about this crime, as well as about other places in Poland which were previously unknown or known only in the local environment. Thanks to the cooperation of the Institute of National Remembrance with local environments, with local authorities or with local history enthusiasts, it is possible to restore the memory of this history, to enter it into such a national memory. Let me just give you two examples from last year. The first is Pomiechówki, Fort III Modlin Fortress, the place where death found several thousand of our compatriots. It was the northern Mazowsze elite. The Jewish population was also murdered there. The Institute of National Remembrance prepared a scientific conference with local communities. We helped create a film about Fort III in Pomiechówek. Last year in Pomiechówk we finished the third stage of exhumation, about 150 remains of people were taken out, 3 funerals took place. The Institute of National Remembrance committed himself to building a cemetery here to commemorate these people with dignity. And this is something comparable to what Palmira is in our memory. The next issue is camp in Działdów. Here, too, our activity has been concentrated, although this is already a long-term activity that continued last year. It was a German camp. There were also dozens of thousands of victims from a very active local environment. In the Senate we showed a film about Działdowa, a documentary prepared by the local community, very active in this area. I will add that Działdowo is the third place in Europe for the execution of the Polish clergy, after Dachau and Auschwitz. There dozens of priests were murdered, including Polish bishops, bishops Nowowiejski and Wetmanski both were blessed. And there's a lot of memory sites like that. The Institute of National Remembrance is involved in research on these places, in commemorating them, in popularizing the knowledge of these places. Ladies and gentlemen, last year is also a lot of publications on World War II. These are among others. publications on Poles saving Jews. This is a multi-annual project, with subsequent volumes, the third and fourth, and there will be next. It is the index of people who were repressed and suffered death, the first volume of this index for helping Jews; but it is also the first scientific, several hundred-page biography of Henryk Sławik, one of the symbolic figures of the Polish Socialist Party, involved in helping and saving the Jewish population in Hungary; it is also publications and exhibitions concerning Matylda Getter's mother, who was the closest associate of Irena Sendler. This drama of the German occupation has already been mentioned, also the Soviet one, but there is a third very painful wound that remained after World War II, and these are crimes of Ukrainian nationalists in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska. Last year we presented a portal built by us - the Volyn Crime Victims Base. In this portal, in this database we intend to publish data In the arrangement: the county after the district about the persons who were murdered there. We started with individual districts, there are already several thousand people there, at the beginning of July we will show what we have done on this issue for a year. I will also say that this is an issue that is extremely interested in public opinion, among hundreds of events and activities of the Institute of National Remembrance last year the scope of interest in this issue was one of the biggest. World War II is a great, dramatic experience that requires our memory. But last year, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal, the Upcoming Senate, is a year, I think, of extremely important, important anniversaries. This is especially about the 2nd anniversary of 1920 and 1980, when Poland was at the heart of European history and changed the course of European history. I think it is worth highlighting one point here. Because we are often accused of celebrating only the Martyrological Anniversaries, our failures. Well, it's our duty, it's our duty to remember. But there are also the two greatest victories, the buckle of the 20th century. Besides, this was the idea of a story about Polish history in such an international and Polish dimension, these last years In 1918, when we regained independence after our age of captivity, but later we had to fight for it, and 60 years later, when John Paul II's choice and history began to accelerate and, on the other hand, free trade unions were formed, this First Company of Cadrow our independence, and 2 years later was the closure of this process... So in 1920 the Bolshevik army stopped in the pre-fields of Warsaw, in the pre-fields of Lviv, near Zadwórz; and in 1980 our biggest victory in the end of the 20th century. This story about Polish freedom, which we regained twice in the last century, was such a theme of our action. In fact, under such slogans that in 1920 we defended freedom, in 1940 this freedom was tried to kill us in Katyn, Palmirach, and in 1980 we began to regain this freedom, not only in Poland but also in the world as an inspiration for all people who dream of freedom. 1920, as short as you can say. We did not want to reduce this anniversary only to those places where the fights were fought, which in our consciousness are, the Court, Radzymin, the German Battle, previously Płock's defence, Włocławka, but we wanted to show that this is the effort of the whole nation. And it is, I think, our timeless flaw that we can fight for independence, but then it is harder for us to keep this community in the building of free Poland. And so it was in 1920. The indifference of Poles. Poland returned, but Poland, which did not require any more sacrifice, no effort. That was the look. This has changed only when the danger has really come to our borders. At the beginning of July, the Bolshevik offensive began, and at that moment the nation became aware of this gigantic danger in which Poland found itself, the nation mobilized in the last few weeks. And that's what we wanted to show you. These are not only Radzymin, Płock, Włocławek, but they are tens, hundreds of towns and cities throughout Poland, which took part in this effort. The result of this effort was over a hundred thousand volunteer armies, but also women's health services, all these facilities created by civilians in favor of a fighting army. Without this backup, this civil front in Poland would not have been this victory. And this also gave us an argument to tell about this year 1920 in Poland, from here we were in Sosnowiec, we were in dozens of cities, where we unveiled plaques dedicated to volunteers in 1920. This allowed us to involve these local communities in the celebrations of 1920, because it is their story. When in Sosnowiec we unveiled a plaque dedicated to 4.5 thousand volunteers from the district of Będzinsk, this story returned there. The board was built on a building in which there was a recruitment point in Sosnowiec. Similarly in Warsaw, the Warsaw Rowing Society, which defended bridges... These are the plates we used to hang in schools in small towns. At the same time, we published publications on this subject, recalling some people, including others. In the year 1920, a young paramedic named Teresa Grodzińska murdered by the Bolsheviks. Because history... This is how we approach it at the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. We always want to call by name so that, through individual stories, we can tell the story of the whole nation. A monumental album about volunteers of 1920 appeared, and in it for the first time published photographs of an outstanding specialist in this field, Mr.Professor Odziemkowski. We're publishing brochures. The scientific conference titled "1920 War of the Worlds," because it was war Not about territory, it was the war of 2 worlds, 2 visions of man: civilization and anti-civilization... The scientific conference did not take place, but this year we have already released the first volume of speeches prepared for this conference. At the same time, there is a large campaign on the Internet aimed at the young generation under the slogan "War of Worlds," which shows 1920, which also shows the involvement of our youth's peers, because the 1920 students' diaries are used. There is a great commitment of the Institute of National Remembrance throughout Poland. But if we are talking about the year 1920, we must remember that this date involves not only war with Bolsheviks, but also such a somewhat forgotten element of our history, i.e. with a plebiscite in Powiśle, Warmia and Mazury, lost by Poland. At that time, against the power of German propaganda, millions of German publishing houses, poor, fighting in the east the Polish state had to lose this plebiscite of 11 July 1920. But in those villages that voted for Poland... We went to them with exhibitions, we put up plaques that remind us of that story. It is just a small Lubstinek, there were dozens of votes for Poland. It's a story. The descendants of those residents, and with this story, we came to them. But also last year... What I will say immodestly succeeded the Institute of National Remembrance, this is another anniversary of the Silesian Uprising, the Second Silesian Uprising. We have always emphasized that many of our initiatives were directed towards this, and I think that the latter, when we met with the Senate, because recently the exhibition on the Third Silesian Uprising was shown in the Senate, also to put the history of the Silesian Uprising into national memory. It's not a story. Only Upper Silesia, that's history The Republic of Poland, this is the story of free Poles fighting 100 years ago to be within the borders of the Republic. There were exhibitions, projects, press add-ons, all over Poland there were additions about the history of the Silesian Uprisings issued in one of the nationwide press companies, for each of the uprisings there was such an addition, there were hundreds of thousands of effort and a very wide range. If we are talking about the press, then we are also telling Poland to the world, which we are doing with the environment of the writings - Everything Most Important - and these are articles about Polish history in dozens of countries around the world. The good spirit of this undertaking is you. Eric Mistewicz. Internet coverage reached 1 billion in August 1920, this action is still being developed. The conclusion, Ladies and gentlemen, from this action is that there is a great interest in the history of Poland. These are not advertising texts, but these are... Journalists in many magazines, Western newspapers, almost all continents are interested in the history of Poland. Through these publications, at least these breakthrough moments were present last year... And the matter, I think, the most important one, which many of you remember, and the events through which we meet today, through which is the Senate of the free and independent Republic of Poland. August 1980. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland and abroad everyone knows this date, the heroes of that time are present on the front pages of the newspapers, always present in textbooks. In August 1980 and in the summer of 1980 it was the effort of hundreds of thousands of people. Of course, at the beginning there were a handful of people focused on anti-communist pre-August opposition: KOR, ROPCiO, SKS, KPN, but also Free Trade Unions. Since 2018, every year in Gdansk, we hang plaques dedicated to them on buildings where dead union activists lived. This year we continued this action in Gdynia. Last year 3 people, I think, very well deserved for this community of trade unions, connected also in part with the Youth Movement of Poland, and later co-creating the Solidarity, i.e. Alina Pieńkowska-Borusewicz, Magdalena Modzelewska-Rybicka and Jan Koziatek, a worker from Gdańsk Shipyard... Unfortunately, they did not live to see that time, died years ago, but we remember them, and hence commemorating their plaques on buildings, QR codes, so you can learn their history. We have been preparing for a long time, we have been wondering how to tell the story of Solidarity in the country. The same way of telling... This is the way we went already in 2018 on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. The project of the White-red route My Independent, hundreds of other initiatives all over Poland... Such a slogan in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance is that the history of national memory, which we have the privilege of having in our name, is the sum of local history. August 1980 began on 1 July, after the announced price increase, the first workplaces stood, then Lubelszczyzna, in mid-July, later, from 14 August a big strike in Gdańsk, on the coast. Gdansk, Szczecin, Jastrzębie-Zdrój, Dąbrowa Górnicza... But before that there was Świdnik, there was Tczew, there was Grudziądz. The exhibition "Solidarity" was born here, showing the birth of "Solidarity" in small towns, where there were several hours of strikes at the beginning of July, then several days later, containing photographs of heroes of that time, photographs of these places, describing this story in Polish and English, we showed it last year in 53 cities. We started on 1 July, after 2 weeks it could be seen in the next 17 cities... All these exhibitions concerning specific cities, so to speak, met on 28 August last year in the square of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. This was the whole story of August 1980, preceded by one additional photograph, such a three-walled element. I think some of you in your districts, or perhaps in Warsaw, saw this exhibition. In this one additional photograph was John Paul II walking in this very place, in Piłsudski Square, on 2 June 1979. Without this breath of spirit, without this sense of strength, which occurred to millions of people in June 1979, it would not have been later in the shape of these changes, the rise of the Solidarity in 1980. Ladies and gentlemen, an important element is memory, exhibition, but also scientific research. We managed to organize a few scientific sessions. An important monumental publishing house was created in Poland, namely the Encyclopedia of Solidarity, containing several thousand biograms, passwords related to that period. The memory of that generation is restored. After 7 years of stagnation, the breaks appeared on the third and fourth volumes. The fourth appeared last year, the fifth will appear next year. We have also launched, in a new form, an electronic version of the Encyclopedia of Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, we also remember about the other pillars of 1980's transformation, about the resistance of the Polish village. An educational project was created, the first in Poland, talking about the resistance of the Polish village, the resistance of the Polish People's Party and the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers. Another installment of this project took place this year. On the 12th of May was the anniversary of the agricultural registration of "Solidarity," we showed an exhibition in small centres, where peasant self-defense committees were established before August, where there were few opposition communities in the countryside. Another important element is the Independent Student Association. We showed this exhibition at the train stations. This is part of working with different institutions. 529 institutions I mentioned... Only last year... An important element of history, an important element of the identity of the coastal cities is the year 1970, it is December '70, it is the experience of the coastal cities of Szczecin, Gdansk, Gdynia and Elbląg. We were at every grave on the coast and in cities outside the coast, where the victims of December 1970 lay. In Gdynia we unveiled a plaque commemorating the victims, the people who died next to the Hill of St. Maximilian. There were meetings with the last participants of December 1970, publishing houses, online studies devoted to victims of that time. There was a traditional exhibition, there was activity on the Internet, there was support for a film shown by Polish Television. The anniversary of December 1970 must have sounded very strongly and sounded in our actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance are also the maintenance of the memory of our compatriots, who live outside the borders of Poland, about emigration in the West. In cooperation with the Permanent Conference of Museums, Archives and Polish Libraries in the West... It is a structure that brings together dozens of institutions, from the museum in Rapperswil to the Polish Scientific Institute in Canada or New York, the Association of Veterans of the Polish Army in the United States, the Polish Library in Paris. It's almost two centuries of history. The Institute of National Remembrance cooperates with these institutions, helping them organize their collections, scanning their collections, often priceless. In 2019 the Institute invited them to Lublin, on the next anniversary of the events of 1980 and on the 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union. This cooperation is still going on. Foreign activity is also an initiative I was talking about, the Full Remembrance Archive. It's a thousand 800 collections, collections that have gone to the Institute of National Remembrance and that are preserved, secured. More: publications are based on them, as I was just talking about. There's more activity like that. We want these harvests to live to get to the public, to all those interested. The reaction to the action of the Full Remembrance Archive... Only last year, in a special year, about 250 collections came to us. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received a report on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, also very extensive. Marshal Borusewicz recently called for it to be more synthetic. And this is what last year it is, and yet it is even thicker than it was in previous years. This shows the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, also in this area, which is somehow associated with the Institute of National Remembrance, I am talking about the search for heroes, graves, remains, identification of our graves, graves of our heroes. Only last year we conducted this search in 48 places, also in Lithuania, but mostly it was the search conducted in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, our activity is also a very wide educational activity. I've already told you in part that last year he forced us to translate these many activities into the Internet. Unfortunately, what is the force of the Institute of National Remembrance is the social impact in direct contact with our compatriots. This was not possible for known reasons last year. May I mention the year 1920, the great victory. We remember that there were also those who did not want to leave us alone at the Poles' side. There was French aid, Hungarian aid, but there were also our neighbours from the east, from Ukraine. Hence the planned scientific conference in Vinnica, hence the release of the first Polish translation of Andrij Rukkas' book about the Ukrainian people's army, the armed partner of the Polish Army in 1920, hence publications on this subject. We remembered the Belarusians, the Russians, those free Russians who joined us in 1920 and defended their people against Bolshevism. We have saved Poland, Polish independence, they saved Russia from Bolshevism unfortunately could not save, which later brought millions of victims. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is also a Mirror Office, which is the catalogues that are present on the Internet, thousands of information available in general, is an IT revolution, you can say, in access to the collection of the Institute of National Remembrance. The employees of the Institute of National Remembrance can already use our documents online, the archive is practically completely public, the collection has been liquidated, it is only a few dozen files and it is not personal, but the infrastructure used by the Polish state to this day. It's also an archive inventory, it's nearly 100 million scanned documents, it's 0.5 million scanned photographs, and this process continues all the time. Last year was the time we could focus more on this job, for known reasons. But the Institute of National Remembrance is also a commission for the prosecution of crimes against the Polish National Remembrance Institute, which is located at the Institute of National Remembrance, but under the authority of the Minister of Justice, is not subject to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and last year several hundred annulled judgments from communist times. Ladies and gentlemen, all that I am talking about has been done in a special year, when we really did have three months of full activity, and then it was impossible for known reasons. But we started this year with a very important venture, I think, because the Institute of National Remembrance reached the widow of Samuel Willenberg, one of the survivors of the camp in Treblinka. After the war, he wrote down this camp reality, what he experienced, in the form of sculptures. Although he was never an artist, sculptures were created. A few years ago, he died, and his last will was that these sculptures, which were a record of cruelty, the drama experienced by the prisoners in Treblinka, should be in Poland, in the Treblinka museum. This museum is only under construction, so by the time the museum was built, the National Remembrance Institute was the director of these sculptures. In January last year we presented Samuel Willenberg's collections in Warsaw and later in subsequent cities throughout Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important, I think, that knowledge about our history should also reach beyond the borders of Poland. This is why last year we started publishing the scientific Polish-English periodical Polish-Jewish Studies. The first number's out, the next one's in preparation. As I said, it's one of the... at this point, the Institute of National Remembrance is publishing seven scientific journals. This also shows the potential of this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, last year another documents from the state archives in Ukraine were sent to the Archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. For several years we have been involved in the transfer of knowledge about the Polish operation of the NKVD, the one from the years 1937 and 1938, when 118 thousand of our compatriots were murdered in the Soviet Union of those who stayed outside the border of lynx. Only because they were Poles. So far, more than 700,000 scans of documents have been included in the collections of the Institute of National Remembrance in cooperation with the Ukrainian archives from the late 1930s. It's also working with a special place. You may have noticed a few days ago such an undertaking of the Institute of National Remembrance organized together with the German archives in Arolsen; this is a place that collects data on millions of victims of German concentration camps. The Institute of National Remembrance is the only one in Poland who has access to the so-called. the end of this archive. Thanks to the information provided only last year several thousand of our compatriots learned the fate of their ancestors. Recently, after 77 years, it was possible to hand over the watch to Mr Franciszek Czaplicki, the victim who died in the concentration camp, his descendant. Ladies and gentlemen, although the time was exceptional, last year we were able to establish further educational institutions in the country, i.e. History stops in Poznań and Opole. Unfortunately, this activity was not possible outside the borders despite the widely outlined plans last year. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance is also a memory and gratitude for those to whom we owe free and independent Poland. Hence the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. About 800 people were honoured last year alone. In spite of the difficult time, 28 such celebrations of the Crosses of Freedom and Solidarity were organized. Verification of these applications is a major organizational effort of the Institute of National Remembrance. There are also awards of the Institute of National Remembrance for all those involved in activities that contribute to the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, e.g. The National Remembrance Custodian Award. Last year, among those decorated... We also try to honor people postmortem. The National Remembrance Award awarded last year was Mr Wojciech Ziembiński and one of the ambassadors of our culture, our history outside the country, Mr Andrzej Pytyński. Unfortunately, he died shortly after he was informed that he had been rewarded, and the ceremony was not possible. This year will be the third edition of the Semper Fidelis. This prize is honored by people, institutions who are involved in preserving the cultural heritage of the Republic of the East. Among the winners was Fr. Bishop Jan Purwiński of the Diocese of Kiev-Cytomer, a man who saved and preserved one of the most beautiful necropolises in the East, the Polish cemetery in Żytomierz, on which, for example, Ignacy Paderewski's family rests. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much once again. These over 800 pages describe the work of about 2.5 thousand employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. Last year, this work was extremely hard, it was going on in unfavorable conditions, but not for a moment of this work, because we know how much it is needed. This report, I think, is a good illustration of our activity in 2020. Mrs. Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. President? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u17	I have three questions. First... Of course I can wait with the next ones, because they're from different fields. Mr President, you appointed Mr Karol Nawrocki's new vice-president 3 days after the Sejm's appointment, after the Sejm voted for President of the IPN. Mr Nawrocki remained and remains the director of the Museum of World War II. Therefore, the question is for you. Did you know that you will be the director of the World War II Museum and will function on the board of the director of the museum and the full-time vice president of the IPN, i.e. in two different institutions? Was it your decision whether or not there were any outside suggestions for a solution that broke the article? 7 constitutions, saying that: The public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law, did you take it? Did you make your own decision? And one more small question: what is the scope of duties of the IPN vice president, who is also the director of the Large World War II Museum in Gdansk?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u18	Dear Marshal, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance takes its own decisions. Maybe you don't know that... I'm sure you don't know that less than five years ago, I didn't tell you that. Dr. Karol Nawrocki, who has worked for years in the Gdańsk branch of the Institute of National Remembrance, was the head of the Public Education Office, which is the head of this structure of the Institute of National Remembrance for scientific and educational activities... and very well headed. I, Mr. Karol Nawrocki, doctor five years ago, was autumn, just after I became president of the Institute of National Remembrance, it was the first months of my career in Warsaw at the Centre of the Institute of National Remembrance. Dr. Karol Nawrocki did not accept this proposal at the time, because in parallel there was a second proposal, namely to take over the headship of the Museum of World War II. After 5 years, Dr. Karol Nawrocki became known as a good manager, historian, a man engaged not only in directing the World War II Museum, but also in restoring the memory of struggles, about fighting in Westerplatte. Dear Mr. Marshal, it seemed impossible that after so many years of the Polish People's Republic, after the time when these crimes or the history of the Polish-German struggles are investigated, they are commemorated so that in the case of Westerplatte... Only now were the remains of Polish soldiers found behind you, who were not properly buried. I do not mention another activity of Dr. Karol Nawrocki, this international activity. Exhibitions organized by the Museum of World War II were shown in dozens of countries, in more than 100 countries around the world. The Director has engaged in an international project on battlefields. It is very active in this international area concerning World War II. Dear Marshal, as you can see, I could still talk about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is an activity in the country and beyond its borders. But this activity concerning World War II... We are all witnessing how much outside of Poland there is information that we at the Institute of National Remembrance know very well, because we often straighten it out. They falsely represent World War II, the reality of the German occupation. Experience and involvement in these issues of Director Charles Nawrocki... I thought it was a man who at the same time gained acceptance of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance and Parliament. This concept, which... and can further enrich, improve the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, in this very important strategic direction. And, Mr. Marshal, it was possible because one of the vice presidents of the Institute of National Remembrance reached retirement age and retired. And that's why I offered this spot, after all the events I was talking about a moment ago... I proposed this position to Director Nawrocki. At this point, Director Nawrocki is on leave at the World War II Museum, and at the Institute of National Remembrance he is preparing a large international project He directs this project, with my full knowledge and support A trail of hope about the history of the Polish armed forces, the Polish army fighting alongside the army of Anders. Mr. Marshal, we at the Institute of National Remembrance are planning for a few, several years earlier. At this point we are already thinking about projects concerning the next anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising in 2024. But this 2024 is the anniversary of Poland's most famous struggles in the West: Anders' Army, Italian Trail, Monte Cassino, Falaise, France, 1. Armored Division. This effort we have to show the world. The Institute of National Remembrance did it and does it, but we still need to increase engagement and activity. And I'll tell you how huge they are... We do not realize the great interest that Belgium and the Netherlands have in this participation. Armored Division. It is the Institute of National Remembrance, among others. he showed a great exhibition years ago, just on the whole route in Belgium, in the Netherlands, Pancerne wings. That's the kind of action you need. And not to mention, we've published a Flemish comic book in Flemish, which would also go to the youngest ones abroad. This is what we need more, and we need to continue with it. That's why you found Dr. Karol Nawrocki at the Institute of National Remembrance to do it. And he's already doing it, he's already got the outline of a team that's going to implement this project on the path of hope together with our partners abroad. And there'll be another one soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u19	I didn't hear the answer to the essential part of my question. I'm a little afraid to ask you questions, Mr. President, because... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: But, Dear Sir...]] You're talking about Maczek, and so on. The basic question is: at the time when you appointed Dr. Nawrocki as Vice President of the IPN, were you aware that he would also continue to be Director of the World War II Museum?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u20	But, Mr. Marshal... I was aware of that, but he was finishing up... [[You did.]] But, Mr. Marshal, whether he's in this position for a few more hours or a few more days, we've decided. He's on vacation at the World War II Museum... [[And he's taking money from this institution, right?]] But, Lord... [[Voice from the hall: He does not take from them. Ask Nawrocki.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u21	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u22	Thank you very much. You've said a lot, Mr. President, about the time of World War II. I have a question about this period, too. Namely we get to know the victims of this period, we get to know people who died only because they were saving Jews. Are we ever gonna meet snitches? Are we ever gonna know who did this? And why is it so hard? Do we have... You said that access to international archives was difficult. But there are many historical works that are such, I would say, book stories about this period. It's rare to show up... I'm not talking about the IPN. I'm talking about the Institutes of History. I'm talking about publications published at universities. They are not based on source materials, witness statements, court documents, but simply talk about a certain period in the history of Poland. Will that change? Will we know the perpetrators of the pacification of the villages, the Nazi terror in occupied lands, and the murderers of those who helped the Jews? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u23	Dear Senator, these perpetrators are mostly known. I just want to remind you that the Pilecki Institute recently brought in and showed documents about the person who was responsible for the murder on the Ulm family. I don't know, maybe we didn't understand each other, but I didn't say access to the archives was difficult. We've been... Last year we had to stop this cooperation, but thanks to the support of the director of the Holocaust Museum, the Institute of National Remembrance has been given access to the largest national archive in the United States. I talked to his director, he's very open about the materials on World War II, about communist times. Besides, the perpetrators are known in many cases. It's another matter of whether or not they're responsible. The Institute of National Remembrance... It's not about responsibility. It's about historical memory. But we're in our publications... I can't speak for other institutions. If we have that knowledge, then we pass it on. That also applies to the perpetrators. Recently, we have been involved in activities for the memory of the children's camp at Przemysłowa Street in Łódź. It was the only camp in Europe. We've been working together on this for years. The delegation of the Institute in Kielce was very involved in the case of Michniów, in the case of this museum, which shows the drama of 817 pacified Polish villages. The unsubs are known. Besides, the Germans never hid their affairs, often photographed themselves against the background of pacification sites. The day before yesterday, you were in the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance and saw Jürgen Stroop's report. This report is at the National Remembrance Institute. It is an accusatory work concerning the fate of the ghetto in Warsaw. The perpetrators were German state officers who occupied the Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u24	That's it, Mr. President? That's the whole answer? Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u25	Mr. President, is there any hope of a breakthrough in the research into the Augustan manhunt?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u26	It all depends on access to the archives in the East. At this point, as you know perfectly well, in that direction such access is either difficult or practically impossible. It's not from us... I'm not gonna answer that question. We're doing everything we can to remember the Augustan manhunt... This is one of the elements that we managed to put in the memory of Poles. A few years ago, no one knew about it. Clarification to the end of all mechanisms, finding the perpetrators is a matter of access to archives in the East, and this is difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u27	Thank you very much. I have a question, Mr. President. In February of this year, you appointed Mr.Dr. Tomasz Grenuch as director of the IPN Division in Wrocław, which led to protests from many backgrounds, including politicians from the government, historians, publicists and the Israeli Embassy. Before you made that decision, did you know what Mr. Tomasz Grenuch did? Did you know that he was involved with the national environment, defending the highs, and he did it himself, among other things. at the Krakow demonstration ONR in 2007? Did you know that Mr. Tomasz Grenuch was a co-organizer of the Myślenice invasion in 2005, which was to commemorate the so-called. The 1936 thought-out expedition, when nationalist militia looted Jewish shops and tried to set fire to the synagogue? Did you know that he was the organizer of the national march in front of the SLD and that in 2016 he met with neo-Nazis convicted by the court? Before you made that decision, did you know about the facts? Have you even considered... Why did you make that decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal, about Dr. Grenuch, I've already told you everything. Dr. Grenuch doesn't work at the Institute of National Remembrance, he hasn't taken this position. This case for the Institute of National Remembrance is closed, and I have all the responsibility for this decision. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I would like to ask: did you know these facts? That's the only question I'd like an answer to.]] I didn't know everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! First of all, I would like to thank both you and the staff of the Institute of National Remembrance for their work. The report, which is right in front of me, best illustrates how much work you do, how you are and how much work you will still need. You are the only institution in Poland that can do this job. Once again, I say respect for the work you are doing, which you are doing effectively. One comment on your Marshal's question about you... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Dear Senator, I would very much like to ask you a question for your president. This is not a debate yet. I'd really like to ask you a question. The rest of the issues and comments will be in the debate.]] Don't correct me. You're too young to have certain things... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Dear Senator, I would very much ask you to...]] But it was a compliment to you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I ask for arguments.]] I'm going back to the questions. Mr Greniuch worked very well as head of the Polish IPN delegation and I can only express my regret that this is how it ended. His work, his contribution to the work of the Opole delegation was simply visible in this area. I live in Opole, and I think my opinion is important here. About the questions... Mr. President, from detail to detail. In the first series I will ask 2 specific questions. The first issue concerns exhumation work in Ukraine. I don't think it's started yet, if it isn't, I'd ask you to get me out of the way. The report does not indicate that it will begin. What else can we do to get this work back on track? Because it is very important for many communities in Poland, which have members of their families just murdered there by Ukrainian nationalists. And another related question. Is there anywhere else in some other country that far-reaching action against just basic human rights? A worthy burial, finding a grave and worthy burial is a fundamental human right. If we have no objections to our aggressors, I understand, on the contrary, we are helping here about the graves of German or Russian soldiers from World War II... Well, maybe there are other standards... I would just like to hear from you whether anywhere in Europe, in the West, is used such an obstruction in the search and exhumation of human remains. And a second specific question. I am talking not about IPN issues at the moment, but generally about development, about the Polish Lad. In this Polish Łada there are some tasks connected, I would say, with an increase in the intensity of teaching history, i.e. what the Institute of National Remembrance does. Here, of course, you will need to contact the Minister of Education, so the question is: have you made this contact already? It's about new software bases, about ideas such as the "Meet Poland" action, i.e. about the specific, detailed availability in a given area of those places where our young people would learn local history, but directly, not only by reading books, but by visiting here. Nobody else like you in the IPN can indicate these places better, in a more effective way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you very much for these thanks to the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. The question of the search in Ukraine at this point seems to have repeatedly been made by the Ukrainian declaration of consent to such a search, but the practice was completely different. We do not have the possibility of conducting research, searching in Ukraine, conducting exhumation studies, despite many declarations. The Institute of National Remembrance in this matter did everything he could to make it possible, but there was strong resistance from the Ukrainian state and obtaining a change of this position is beyond the capacity of the Institute of National Remembrance. We conducted exhumation work in Belarus, with the benevolence of the Belarusian side, we carry out this work in Lithuania. I don't know an example of them, maybe they are, but at this point, I can't tell. This kind of disagreement, especially as regards such a number of victims. I would only add that in Poland, under the care of the Polish state, there is every grave of a soldier who died on Polish soil, whether he represented the invader army or was our ally. It comes out of our duty, it comes out of our Christian tradition, which imposes such a duty on us. And we're doing it. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, with curators or with schools, we have been doing this since the beginning. In 2001 or 2002 this was still the CEO of Leon Kieres The Institute of National Remembrance signed an agreement with the then Minister of National Education. I think it was Minister Wittbrodt, if I recall. This cooperation has since, of course, been implemented with varying intensity. Also look at the possibilities of the Institute of National Remembrance. More than 160 people work at the National Education Office. We focus on preparing educational materials for schools, and teachers use it. We also organize workshops for teachers. That's what the senator was talking about. It is extremely important in all this that young people visit places connected with history. We must, of course, maintain the proportions, remember the opportunities we have, but we also organized educational expeditions for teachers, for the winners of our competitions. Well, we can't take everyone there, but we've been driving like this. on the End of the Republic, the close ones and the more distant ones. There were trips to places of execution of Poles, to concentration camps, to Austria, to Germany. We also took the route of battlefields in Italy, France, Holland, Belgium. We do it, but we do it in proportion. Well, there are tens of thousands of teachers in schools. We try to give them educational materials, educational files, infographics, multimedia materials. We started such a series for teachers of Polish language, a series of Literature and Memory, in which we show at least... This is the first such book in Poland The year 1920 in Polish literature. A few thousand copies of this book went to school libraries. We also sent several thousand of Łukasz Ciepliński's flu to schools. This is one of the most dramatic testimonies. We also prepare audiobooks. There's this organic, everyday activity going on here. This last year was special, although I will tell you that our online lessons were very interesting. I encourage you to visit our website, the IPN has such a special website In the spring of last year, we opened it. It is dedicated to all these initiatives. On the scale of Poland we organize dozens of competitions. What arouses hope is that we have a truly intelligent, read, interested history of young people. Well, this image of young people is not always visible in the media, but in our daily work we meet such young people. And I believe that these young people will be our elite after years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u33	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. President, I'm glad the Institute of National Remembrance reacted so quickly. Last year we amended the IPN Act, so that there was no statute of limitations on communist crimes. I stress the vigilance of the Institute of National Remembrance. I'd like to express my thanks here. But I also have this question: what is the situation with regard to the digitisation of harvests? We know that in part these are materials to which access is regulated by law, but I refer to those which may be public documents so that they can be used online. And my second question. I'm often referred to by people, and I'm a North Mazowsze senator, it's a pock diocese... You mentioned the president in your speech about the two Blessed Bishops, the Archbishop of Nowowiejski and Bishop of Wetmanski. The subject of a worthy protection of this, well, concentration camp, secreted, in which at least 15,000 people were killed from that area continues to come back. What does this matter look like today in the evaluation of the National Remembrance Institute? Well, this is, I'd say, a vacuum of inability to cooperate between different public institutions. I'd like a comment on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as access to the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance is concerned, as I said a moment ago, the proprietary collection ceased to exist. The collection, the archive of the Institute of National Remembrance, is over 90 km... It's a public collection, it's a public document. There are literally dozens of archive units left, folders It used to be a multi-kilometer collection of open materials. After that, the so-called. It's a restricted collection. They're not personal files, they're infrastructure-related. Dear Senator, I'll give you specific numbers, millions of scanned materials... We have nearly 100 million pages of documents scanned at this point. The inventory was also, through this change, so recent... Anyone can run a query using a mobile device. About 2 million 300 000 archival units are in the archive inventory of the Institute of National Remembrance. This trial is still going on. As for the numbers, and that's actually millions, I'd say to the senator exactly... The second question... [[It's departmental.]] Yeah, departmental. Mr. Senator, camp in Dzia3dów for the local community... Well, 15,000 victims, camp located in the city center, small town, military barracks. Ideas of what to do with this place have gone far beyond the local authorities' finances. There have been different ideas for the last few decades to develop this place, but it's always been about money. The Institute of National Remembrance, realizing the importance of this place, committed himself to popularizing the knowledge of this place. We were the ones who prepared the permanent exhibition for the local museum about this camp, and we put up information boards showing the history of this camp there. From what I've recently learned, it appears that this is the first time a few million-dollar grant has been committed to this place. However, I think it is far too little to commemorate this place, to manage properly. It's a powerful object in the city center, just recently with a collapsed roof. Ideas for the operation of this place mean a lot of costs. It is a great satisfaction that slowly, slowly, the state of knowledge about this subject is changing and not only the inhabitants of Dzia3dowa... Just the fact that the senator asked about it, but also that there was money for this place... This is the beginning of the road in the right direction. [[I'd like to ask, if I may...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u36	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u37	...about the first line. I was more concerned with this case. Maybe I wasn't specific. If such a search engine is expected. I know there's something like that right now. E.g. if we are looking for a given person, proverbial Jan Kowalski, with the date of birth, because the name may repeat, there may be dozens of people wearing the same name... But to be aware of what's in the resource about a person... And it is not only about those who are being repressed, but also about the officers of the Polish People's Republic's apparatus of repression. Is it predicted... Is this updated? What's the situation? I mean, the whole harvest... So that you have a guarantee that if you are looking for a person and you are located, for example. 10 archival units on this subject, that means 10 are in stock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u38	For the scans of these documents to be, sir, it's one thing... We would like to achieve this once, but on the one hand we need to resolve legal issues, and on the other hand we really need to resolve logistical issues. As I say, we already have 100 million scanned materials and... But this information, it's basic, for example. about the security camera officers, they're in the mirror catalogs, it's all available on the Internet. Same with those who were repressed, the security camera officers... [[But they may be, Mr President, neutral people, i.e. those who are neither in the catalogue of officers nor in the catalogue of people being repressed, but appear in documents, e.g. as the manager of the workplace in a given... just an index of the names of those people who...]] Yes, I understand... [[... more widely understood, not only the directory of the repressed and the catalogue of officers.]] Mr. Senator, well, you have to start somewhere, this collection is really huge, it's millions of names. That's the way we've taken it, but we're working on it all the time. The materials are also indexed internally... I remember these descriptions 20 years ago, although they were completely incomparable with those that are today. Very modest, very... Yeah, but this is the way we're going, and she's still ahead of us. [[Just like the index in the book.]] Yeah, yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u39	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u40	Mr. President, I have one complex of questions for which I will ask for a written reply... [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Good.]] ...and one question to you directly, please answer. They walk, there is such information that the archives concerning priests were transmitted to the Church, even before the establishment of the IPN. I'd like to know if this was the case, and if so, when. Are these archives concerning priests, the Church in possession of the IPN? In this context Also a specific question for you. In 1999, after the establishment of local voivodships, in the stock of rooms, simply in 2 rooms passed to the Sejmik Voivodship of Pomorskie by the voivodship office, there were materials produced in the department for religious matters. 2 rooms full of material from the Department of Religious Affairs. Therefore, I would also ask for written answers as to whether they were made to IPN. It's 1999, maybe 2000, a random find, but very interesting. That's a set of two questions, maybe three questions I'd ask for in writing. And now the question I'm looking for a direct answer to. The IPN does not pay for photographs taken at war or earlier, which for the reasons that were understood at that time were anonymous, it was known that the author could not sign these photographs. I know at least one case. Leszek Biernacki, photographer That the author had taken the matter to court. I believe that if IPN currently uses photographs at exhibitions, in its books and thinks they are still anonymous photographs, it is not fair, i.e. You have to pay those 300 zlotys or 200 zlotys to those who risked themselves. We have a completely new situation, and we know more or less who is the author of the photos that went to IPN as anonymous. Therefore, I have a question for you. Will the IPN pay for the photos used for its publications and exhibitions, in which case the author's anonymity is no longer valid? Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u41	Dear Marshal, there are cases that we pay, here is full agreement on this, we pay if the author is known and demands some financial gratification. And this case... Indeed, a photograph of Mr Leszek Biernacki appeared at one of the exhibitions, and a person worthy of the Gdansk opposition, but, as I understand from my knowledge, this photograph appeared... Those who used them... It was in the collections of the Institute of National Remembrance and it wasn't signed, it wasn't a bad will. We are ready to communicate with Mr. Biernacki. Please take into account that some authors pass pictures free of charge to show them at exhibitions, because we do not carry out commercial activities, but this is an educational activity. But we are ready to agree with Mr. Biernacki. [[One more sentence, extra sentence: he's on the court road.]] Yes. [[I don't think that's necessary.]] Well, so do I, but... [[Good. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Stanislaw Gogach's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u43	Mr President, the Senate is specifically called to care for Polonia and Poles living abroad, that is obvious knowledge, especially here in this room. Among Poles living abroad there is a great expectation for projects presenting the history of Poland, which is why I am very grateful to you for the section in the information you presented, which was already praised here, to which I also join, concerning cooperation with Polonia and Polish organizations. In this section are listed the countries in which Polonia is located, there are Poles, and there are listed various educational initiatives, educational initiatives concerning history, especially in the formula of the History stop, but not only. This is, of course, something very valuable and commendable that you are pursuing this direction within your activities. My question is this: what is the mechanism used for the fact that e.g. in Belgium, such an initiative is organised by you, not different from that in the Czech Republic, Lithuania, etc. are individual initiatives implemented? Is it that you decide this as an IPN, or is it that Poles living abroad are turning to you? That's the first question. And the second question is this. In what part of your assessment are the expectations of Poles about learning about Poland's history met? Do you think we should be doing even more work in this direction? Is what you're doing basically enough? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u44	Mr. Senator, let me start with the second question. The actions are certainly insufficient. You know that there are about 20 million of our countrymen outside Poland. This is the youngest generation who wants to maintain a relationship with the homeland of parents or grandparents, often no longer knows Polish. We think about that, too, and we respond to that demand. And when it comes to the Stops History, about these educational centers, it looks like the institutions or associations operating in the Polish community are talking to us, e.g. In Chicago it was the Association of Polish Teachers in America, the largest organization, bringing together dozens of Polish schools in this city. We with such an association or initiative sign an agreement and send materials there, or, if it is closer, in Grodno, Vilnius, in Żytomierz, every 2 months our employees go there with lectures, with educational materials, and if it is overseas, once every six months. Of course, they come to us, we have a whole line of cities from different European countries who want to cooperate with us. Last year, the senator himself knew it was impossible. The environment in Ireland is very active, we send materials to teachers from Dublin, but we have not formally set up such an initiative there. We work very well with the Polish Community. Mr Włodzimierz Suleja is the author of the textbook that we have published for use by Polish teachers. Always in the summer we have... We invite, in July, now, at the beginning of July, a group of Polish teachers are coming to visit us at the Institute of National Remembrance. These are teachers from all over the world who will learn about our materials for which we organize meetings. This last year, we've moved a dozen of our educational activities to the Internet. There is a project, there are already dozens of exhibitions, we call them elementary exhibitions, in various formats, 16 pages on a given subject: the route of General Anders, the treatise of cartoons, the Warsaw Uprising. There's basic, elementary information that anyone can print in format. A3 or less. We know that it is used by teachers from Australia to the United States. I no longer mention other materials, discussions, educational files. A cycle of infographics has been very popular lately. Now the young people mostly pick up pictures, so we prepare infographics, we have 5 or 6 sets of plates. We do it in Polish, but we do it in other languages, most often in English, because actually young people, the youngest ones identify with Poland, but this is not the contact with the language... They already prefer to speak in the language of the country in which they live, although historically and culturally they feel like Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! This is the last question, but in my opinion the most important question, namely the general loss of Poland, the state and the nation, during World War II. Even today, a part of this question sounded in the context of the discussion on the resolution that we adopted this morning. It is a comprehensive study related to human, material losses, but e.g. also in archives, works of art, etc., which Poland as a state and Polish citizens suffered during World War II not only from German hands, because this is more and more often spoken of, but also from the Russian invader. The question is... I think the institution you're running is the most predisposed institution to do that, of course I don't downgrade the semi-amateur. or scientific, but narrow developments that show up. Why is it so important? For educational reasons, we need to show the young people why it was so difficult for their grandparents and fathers to compete as much as we lost, in short, what the starting point was compared to other nations, but also for political reasons, I am not talking about documentation anymore. I know it's the easiest thing to do with other people's hands. Taking extra classes is not very popular. Mr President, what should we do to simply document and account for the losses we suffered during World War II, the losses we had in general understood? Whether a central research project or a separate component of IPN, or maybe an external institution or e.g. A special bill in this area... what do you think would be the best tool here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u47	Dear Senator, I think that such effects would actually give a place where these studies are focused. We as the Institute of National Remembrance partly got involved in this. We have a web site, please see it, strat.pl. There are 5.5 million records of people who died during World War II. We have a site on the victims of Ukraine. Years ago, we published such a publication devoted to the loss of World War II. I once attended the meeting of this team, which appointed Mr Mularczyk, and this meeting took place at the Institute of National Remembrance. It's a lot of work and years of abandonment. Because it has to be calculated on the one hand personal losses, and on the other hand powerful material losses. If Mr Mularczyk's report comes up, then we will have a benchmark that will show us the extent and extent of these losses, and the areas where these studies still need to be undertaken. Because these are matters on the one hand measurable, material, and, on the other hand, immeasurable. 'Cause how do I count it? the irretrievable loss of the collection of the Rapperswil Museum or the cultural goods that burned in Warsaw during the bombing? In turn, when it comes to intellectual work, it is necessary to talk about outstanding scientists, outstanding scientists, who have never written a single book again, never continued their activities. And one such omissions for decades is that such a report in a country that has so painfully and measurablely experienced this cruelty, the drama of World War II, has not yet been created.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u48	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President... [[Voice from the room: Senator Ujazdowski checked in.]] Oh, I'm sorry, but you're still Senator Ujazdowski, room 217. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not have asked this question if it had not been for the answer given by your President, suggesting that Mr Mularczyk's team had started working on the inventory of losses. According to my memory, IPN launched a data collection programme on personal and material losses in 2007, led by Prof. Żaryn and, according to my memory, during the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL, he had the opportunity to work in the IPN and continue this project. No, he wasn't outside the IPN at the time. So I would like to ask what it was like in your time to continue the project that started in 2007 and not since the establishment of Mr Mularczyk's team. Since 2007, IPN has declared to collect full data on individual losses suffered during World War II. And here it is... Once it is creating the impression that something started very late that there are years of omissions... And the program started in 2007, I had the opportunity, as Minister of Culture, to assist in launching it. So can we ask what is the fate of this program, the program for which IPN took full responsibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u50	Dear Senator, I was talking generally about years of omissions, and I said that years ago the Institute of National Remembrance published a publication resulting from the work of this team. I'll send this publication. We spent a few years ago, behind my chairmanship, releasing another edition of this book. And part of the work of this team, which was then created and later indeed, after Professor Zarin left, and this is also years ago. From the Institute of National Remembrance... It is continued through this mentioned project Straty.pl, there are about 5.5 million records concerning personal losses. And we're working on this project all the time, checking it out... Perhaps I will give the senator a written answer, with dates, with concrete accomplishments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No more questions. I inform you that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Jarosław Szarek has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Ujazdowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I listened attentively to your speech, and I also looked at quite extensive information about the activities in the past year. But first, I want to talk about a situation that really upset me. As part of the election of the President of the IPN, the Sejm pointed out and elected Mr Karol Nawrocki. Three days later, in a situation where the procedure is not yet completed, you appoint him as your vice president. But this is not yet a situation where you violated the law. You violated the law when, knowing that he would continue to be the director of the World War II Museum in Gdansk, you appointed him as your vice president. You have transgressed the law because it is not that what is not forbidden is allowed for you. You're the head of the institution and Art. The 7th Constitution states that public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. Under the law, Director Nawrocki cannot be Director and Vice President in one person at the same time. You said he was on leave at the World War II Museum, but he's taking money for his functions. This is a curiosity situation. I have not seen such a situation in my public life, and I have been in Parliament for a long time. You can't defend it, Mr. Director. You made a mistake. Now, about the report... I, of course, reviewed this report, fragments very carefully. And I am in favour, also in connection with this report, but also with the situations that were in the IPN, which indicate that a significant number of employees... In fact, it's an institution that has a one-way tilt. To the right or to the right very much. Mr. Grenuch's case only adds to that. But it's not just that. When it comes to delicate matters, you can say... The assessment of the role of not only Polish citizens, but also Poles during the war, of course, cannot be just a hurrapatriotic evaluation if it is carried out by an institution which is scientific in nature. Publicists can do that, but the institute is researching. As for the history of Jews in Poland during the Nazi occupation, from what I read, it appears that the institute deals only with polemics with those who say there were also Poles who spent these Jews. I'm not asking you if they were, because I know they were. And the IPN only deals with polemics with those who write anything about it. What are the titles of the central research projects and publications you mention? There was a central research project "Polish-Jewish relations" between 1918 and 1968, which was then named "Jewish Acts in Poland" and "Polish-Jewish relations in 1918 and 1989." The following studies are published:.Index Poles murdered and repressed for the help of Jews, the State of research on the aid of Jews, Dr. Piątkowski, and relations about the help given to Jews by Poles in 1939 and 1945. Warsaw District, Dr. Namyslo's Repressions for helping Jews in the occupied Polish lands during World War II. There is an opening report on research into helping Jews during World War II, which mainly covers Eastern voivodships. There's finally a book review. It's still night. The fate of Jews in selected counties of occupied Poland, Engelking and Grabowski's books. It was written by Thomas Domanski. The review was published in some, seems, small newsletter, newsletter of the Institute of National Remembrance. The review is entitled "Corect of Images." I read it, I looked it up. It's a few hundred-page book. In this direction the research is carried out, this is the tilt. There were no other situations that should be examined, no indication of who or when they cooperated with the Germans, who the Jews seemed to be, who murdered them in the dens where they were hiding. It's a one-sided study, isn't it? During the occupation and later there was the concept of moneymaking, that is, making money on those poor, hiding Jews, as well as giving them to the Germans. There was a whole industry of that kind. If we read the memories of the Jews in the United States or Israel, what will we find out? Me, too. I've spoken to a hiding Jew who's been talking about it. I'm not saying this to whip you, but your institute is a scientific institute, it's not a propaganda institute, it's just supposed to argue with those who say, well, there have been situations. Yes, there have also been situations, we know that very well. What do I want to go to? To the fact that this institute under your direction is unable to conduct other research, it is not able to conduct objective research. This image correction, i.e. the assessment and criticism of this book, continues to be the night, points to factual errors and allows us to draw far-reaching conclusions: that this entire publication is nothing. This is what this image correction is for. Yeah, it's not just an image correction, but it's just a blind look at one eye. If the scientist sees only part, it means that he doesn't see everything, he doesn't see the whole thing, he's blind in one eye. And the situation during the Nazi occupation was terrible, it was a terrible part of our history. Those who rescued the Jews, including those who worked with the Germans or for very low financial reasons, spent these people... It shows in a different light those who saved. That's why I think that research and publications, which are different, are interesting, good, but they're also causal... This causes me to repeat my opinion: IPN should have money for research, but research should commission outside and maybe publish these research. Otherwise, it's gonna be like I told you. We're gonna have to explain ourselves in an international forum. And there was a situation that you remember. With your permission, a law was introduced concerning punishment for such publications, in which someone writes that Poles... Poles also, sometimes there were such situations, had fingers in giving out Jews, etc. After all, there were also reports of the Gestapo, not only on this matter. I know a situation where the underground intercepted a Gestapo report at the post office. They behaved. Shocking reading, shocking. But what does that mean? Does this mean that there were no Poles fighting the occupation, only the reporter? No. If we show all the complexity and panorama of different human behaviors, we show those who saved Jews, those who reported, and a large part that was just afraid and turned back because she was afraid, it is a real panorama. [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] I'm almost done. So, Mr. President, I'm talking about it again. As nothing changes, I believe that research based on sources should be conducted by external historians in IPN. The last question about modern times. I read a lot of work on this subject, based only on IPN sources, i.e. Security Service materials. If a historian writing works does not try to verify materials through conversations and relationships of people who can verify it, then these are very lame works. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the President still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u54	Mr. Marshal, if you'll excuse me, what you just said... These allegations are not reflected in reality. Talking about tilting the Institute of National Remembrance about us being a political institution... The report contains several dozen pages of publications by the authors of the Institute of National Remembrance. These are publications of people with different political views. I don't know what political views the employees at the Institute of National Remembrance have. The only criterion for their work is the reliability of scientific research. Mr. Marshal, every scientific publication appearing at the Institute of National Remembrance has reviewers. These are external reviewers, from universities, from the Polish Academy of Sciences. The question raised by you is that the publication is still the night... that the answer to it is the brochure... These are the proportions between scientific publication and review. Unfortunately, the Institute of National Remembrance is accused of things that the authors of that publication have committed. It is not my opinion, it is the opinion of historians, professors who have verified this publication with historical sources. Mr. Senator, there will soon be a publication at the Institute of National Remembrance that will show the sources used by historians. We'll show you what the quote from such a source looks like in this publication. I believe that you will assess for yourselves where the integrity of scientific research is. A moment ago, you accused outstanding historians of World War II, among others. Dr. Aleksandra Namyso from Katowice, one of the most outstanding specialists in research on Polish-Jewish relations during World War II... You notice one publication about it, but you do not notice a number of publications about the Ghetto in Będzin about the Jewish people in Zagłębie and its fate. Mr. Marshal, the repeated allegations that the Institute of National Remembrance is a propaganda institution, have absolutely no coverage in reality and offend employees of the National Remembrance Institute. We've been hearing this for 20 years. Please find such a title, find an author who would take such an unreliable approach to the issues he is dealing with. Each publication is subject to an external review by specialists in a given field. Their names are listed in each publication. Here's another thing. Mr. Marshal, you are accusing the Institute of National Remembrance that you are dealing with Poles saving Jews. You know very well how many people were involved in the work of the Workers' Defence Committee, the anti-communist opposition. For heroic deeds, for heroic attitudes That's what history teaches. The minority always decides. But we have to remember this minority. We also remember those of our fellow countrymen who had misunderstood all the rules, who were collaborators, who reported to Germany. We do not hide it, but we are also talking about those who have risen to the heights of humanity, risking not only their lives, but also the lives of their loved ones. They were the ones who rescued the Jewish people condemned by the German invader to destruction. It's our duty because it was the highest degree of humanity. Our ancestors, our compatriots, did this during World War II. Dear Mr. Marshal, in the Information Bulletin, the main organ of the Home Army during the war, an article was published on the front page saying "Forgive me." That the feces of our social life during the German occupation are infidelity. The German occupation, like any occupation, was demoralizing. Well, abnormal conditions corrupt. We have never hidden the attitude of reprehensible, attitudes which, by the structures of the Polish state were treated as collaboration. That was also the attitude of embalming. But we will not allow those who rose to the heights of humanity to be forgotten during the occupation. Excuse me, but this charge against the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance... Please see what is behind these publications, read this and choose a specific question. Forgive me, Mr. Marshal, but what you've accused... It was a publicist matter. There's one more thing. You keep referring to the issue of the National Remembrance Institute Act. I would like to remind you that the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance was followed much, much earlier, also at a time when your group had full power. I would also like to point out that the scale of the violations and manipulations that have appeared around this law It's still going on today, which is also proof, if you'll excuse me, of your statement. It makes it virtually impossible to discuss this issue. I believe that the best solution in such situations is scientific research, reliable research leading to the truth. This will not be achieved through legislative solutions. Please note that you repeat, please forgive me, but this is a lie. That law was used to block Holocaust research. Then I'll quote this bill. She says you don't banish scientific and artistic activities. There is a record that scientific research and artistic activity are excluded from this bill. The Blade of this Law I don't think so, I'm not, I wasn't the legislator, it was aimed at journalists, into unreliable articles, absolutely not into the scientific environment and not the artistic environment. And that's what's written in this bill. And the environments that were reluctant to do so have been breaking even the contents of this law from the very beginning. Very cordially, Mr. Marshal, I ask you not to repeat these false words about what this bill was supposed to solve and who was to be subject to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And I'm asking you, Mr. President, not to lie to me, not to change the content of my speech and the intention of my speech. And you confirmed that you were a supporter of that bill, a change of law from which the Polish government had to withdraw under the pressure of Israel and the United States.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u55	I would like to thank the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Shark, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and consider it as item twenty-third of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and the Act on the Financing of Educational Tasks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 416 and the report of the Commission In print No 416 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act, which was the subject of the committee's work, concerns the Law on the financing of educational tasks and aims to grant the Minister an additional power, which is to fund from a specially built budget tasks related to various educational or educational projects, to finance them with special funds. I would like to stress that the law itself provides for 3 simultaneous solutions: on the one hand, of course, the inclusion of specific objectives, on the other hand, a specific mechanism, and on the third hand, certain conditions for the performance of the task through such, and not another transparency, or types of notice. On behalf of the committee, I would like to confirm that the committee recommended that this law be rejected. In general, it can be said that for three different reasons: one technical reason, one substantive and one political one. As far as this substantive reason is concerned, it was primarily about the lack of the possibility to appeal against certain decisions that the Minister might have taken. Together with Senator Sewerynski, we have proposed, in line with the suggestion of the Legislative Office, such an amendment, but this has not been adopted because the bill has been adversely assessed by the committee. The second reason, which was a quite important reason, especially at the procession stage in the Sejm, was that there was no statutory consultation. First of all, the local government protested against the mode, the mechanism for implementing this law, a law on the initiative of the parliament, although concerning the powers and mechanisms of the Ministry of Education. These consultations, so to speak, have been supplemented a little bit, but not entirely, before the stage of the examination of the bill in the Committee on Education, Science and Sport. Once again, this disability has not been eliminated in its entirety. And the third reason was the lack of trust in the intention itself. In general, as I stress once again, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport recommends that the High Senate reject this law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u57	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Sewerinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u58	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that the committee recommended that the bill be rejected unanimously.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u60	Yeah, it's true. Indeed, a small majority of the committees recommended that this law be rejected. Thank you for asking, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u61	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? You're welcome, Senator Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question because I am not attending this committee, but I have read the justification. Did the committee's meeting raise the question that what the Minister wants to introduce into the educational system is in higher education and that no one questions it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u63	Thank you very much. I understand the senator asked you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u64	Yeah, that was the point. This was one of the arguments behind this bill, as well as a fairly simple interpretation of this fact. The difference between the system of functioning of science in Polish law and the system of functioning of education... I'm speaking in a nutshell not to go into detail. It must be remembered that education, which is the subject of this law, falls within the competence of local government. In the case of science, we have a separate law, separate regulations and the autonomy of universities guaranteed by the law. Therefore, these programs are placed slightly differently and so simple a comparison, unfortunately, cannot be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any other questions? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, how can these programs be ordered, implemented in the education system at the moment? Because if you want this bill to be rejected, I understand that this will not be possible. Don't you see such needs, or are there just other ways?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u68	One thing I would like to draw attention to: in general, the right to build a law is not denied, in which the Minister with additional funding would support certain educational programmes at the level of primary education or secondary education. That wasn't the issue. I would add that the committee meeting did not last very long, and therefore not all the details could be explained. But I'm going to quote two elements that are written in this bill to make it clear about doubt. First of all, it is important to remember that the request of Members... For us, it is surprising that in the area of the minister's competence and the procedure of specific programmes, which are to be the additional competence of this minister, there are MEPs with the initiative, not the minister himself. But the minister, as we learned at the committee meeting, is signing off on this project. This law, which concerns the amendment of the Law on the system of education and the Act on the financing of tasks, introduced, as I have stressed, by Members, was in principle to be a permanent element in the policy of the Ministry of the introduction of various Attempts to introduce a specific procedure at the level of the Sejm have failed, including the most important part of the decision-making and financing procedure for directories of specific tasks, to include an element of the appeal procedure, i.e. the possibility of appeal against such decisions. However, it has also been stressed that the project that has been built up is at the moment talking about the level of the Sejm, in some sense it violates the powers of the local government, which might have accepted the additional powers of the Ministry if this project had been consulted with the local government. Unfortunately, it was conducted in such a fast way that consultations with both the Polish Towns Association and other local government associations were not carried out. It is therefore also the failure of this opinion, which was presented in the High Senate. One thing, however, is worth mentioning. It is not true that the Minister cannot finance specific projects at present. The Minister wanted to give his programmes a specific legal framework and weight or legal meaning. And that's why it's a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. An additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u70	That Senator's answer made me even more concerned. Well, that means you can finance in the same mode. This is in the same chapter, the ninth regional and local programmes, but it will not be possible to finance the programme of the Minister responsible for Education and Education. Is this really how it's supposed to be? This means that the minister who is responsible for education and education will not be able to influence the degree, the way in which education and education are implemented, and for example. some county or voivodship, without reducing the county or voivodship, will they be able to influence? Is that how you're gonna break the hierarchy of values in this country?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u72	That's definitely not the case. I am only talking about projects for which the catalogue of objectives for this law has not been presented, despite such a proposal. In turn the Minister of Education has great competence, not only in building the shape of education in Poland, but also in relation to detailed programmes, the rules for carrying out tasks related to after-school activities and other elements of the education process. Fewly, I can say that for almost 30 years, including my local experience, local government officials have repeatedly demanded much broader powers regarding the impact on educational programmes and the way in which educational tasks are carried out in schools for which they are responsible. Unfortunately, these various expectations were not recognized in any government crew. Yes, there is. That's what I'd call it. The field of flexibility, extremely modest, but generally speaking, the government and the Minister of Education are responsible for the implementation of both educational projects in terms of degree of organisation, organisation, method of financing and school programmes. I will also remind you that at the time of the liquidation of junior high, local government officials strongly protested against this project, this idea. In vain, because the middle school was eliminated, and that was when it achieved the best results in Europe, located in the top five schools of this type in the European Union. So, in my opinion, we are dealing, not with imbalances, but with a defined historical division of competences between the minister and the local authorities, especially at the basic level. For this reason, I would not draw such conclusions as the senator suggested, nor the opposite, that in this matter we are dealing with an exceptionally injured subject. The experience of these 30 years gives our schooling a pretty good position, thanks to the involvement of teachers, thanks to the experience of many generations of educators. But in general, it cannot be said that the Minister will be harmed to any extent by a possible rejection of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u73	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the main allegations are about public consultation and about rapid proceding, but I would like to ask whether, according to this amendment, education actors will be limited to the possibility of submitting proposals. Do we have any reason for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u75	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond. [[About what we have today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u76	Yes, here I will immediately confirm that nothing will change with regard to the present situation, i.e. the rejection of this project does not change anything, either on the plus or on the minus. Waiting for the Members who were the applicants... They wanted to change things by adding the powers of the Minister of Education to implement additional programmes. What was the main problem? I'll tell you right away, so there's no doubt. There has already been a problem at the level of the debate in the Sejm showing enumeratively the objectives of this project, the specific objectives, i.e. what the minister is after, what tasks or damage to the educational field are present at the moment, so that this law is, in short, well-founded or necessary. Unfortunately, there was no answer to this question, but also a proposal for an amendment in which this catalogue would be built It would not have to be completed in full, but at least some parts would have been mentioned, illustratively rejected, which was part of the justification of this proposal, which eventually ended with such a vote in committee. But I confirm what the senator says is that the absence of this law doesn't close anything, it doesn't open anything, and it doesn't really change anything in certain divisions of competence between the local government and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more questions. The bill was introduced by Members. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska has been authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[There is no Member.]] There is no Member. Therefore, the senators cannot ask the questions of the Member, I understand, the rapporteur of the parliamentary project. I'd have a question for our lawyers, or... As I understand it, it doesn't make any difference... [[This is actually a rule, unfortunately, that the rapporteurs do not appear on...]] I understand that here we are dealing only with a defect of political culture, not a constitutional one. [[That's right.]] It's okay. About times, about customs... The senators are therefore not allowed to ask questions about the absent Member. But the senators can report from the scene... Excuse me... Would a government representative like to take the floor on this bill, on which the applicant's representative, Members, did not speak, because he did not attend the meeting of the High House? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: If you permit a marshal, then...]] But I will not only do so with great desire, and I will inform the Minister that I could not do otherwise, because you have every right to present the position of the government on this matter, and we, in the absence of any other position that we have not been able to hear because of the absence of the Member, will be glad to hear you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, really, for keeping not only the letters of the law, but the letters... or actually the words, the culture of the word. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. On behalf of the Minister for Education and Science, I would like to address these questions and comments, which were presented here on the one hand by the rapporteur, Senator Zdrojewski, and on the other hand by representatives of the senate minority, namely Mr Czerwiński and Mr Swed, whom I warmly thank for the task of very precise and concrete questions. It is not true that it does not change the state of affairs to proceed with this law or to accept it or reject it. First of all, its adoption will change the legal state, so it is indeed a law referring directly to the law on the education system and to the law on the financing of educational tasks. So in a formal, statutory, legal sense, this is a very significant step. Also in material terms, the adoption of this law will be a very positive phenomenon already this calendar year, and next year the school year, in its first months, i.e. in September, October, November and December. I hope that when the budget is adopted, there will certainly be funds for the financial year 2022. It is not true that this law will not make changes, it will not have a positive impact on the existing education system. It's going to have an impact, and it's going to have a very significant impact. In the first dimension, which is probably the most appealing to imagination This is the dimension that could be shut down by the amount of 7 and 10 million. These are the measures that can go to the students, go to the schools, go to the space that is so much said here. In fact, this would allow local authorities to be relieved of the burden on the performance of this function, which has been entrusted to local authorities. So I don't understand why we're saying that this bill will not affect reality. And finally, a very important, important dimension. We're talking about the Ministry of Education and Science, we're talking about the Ministry of State Policy, education policy. I will remind everyone, although it may be unnecessary, I apologize for the fact that every year the Minister is obliged to present the main tasks of education policy of the State and always does so every year. We know that this situation we are currently in, the pandemic situation... Let me remind you that these are two consecutive years, and in the case of the previous year, there was a school strike. So if we consider, for example, those situations that do not necessarily need to be called, but we have to say that they are emergency situations, we can say that they cause this instrument, which is in the minister's hand, to be flexible in allowing the minister to react to a really difficult situation at times. We know, because we have adopted as parliamentarians further anti-covid shields, that for this year the measures envisaged will probably not be too great. But we can imagine the situation that without instruments as extraordinary as an anticovid shield we will be able to respond to a difficult situation in individual institutions, but no, I would say, individually, only in the sense of implementing a specific program. So this instrument seems to be a useful instrument in this respect. I guess that's it for me. Of course, we can discuss what are the tasks of the local government, what are the tasks of the Ministry of Education and Science. Let's remember that talking to local government officials shows that we're more likely to be dealing with Perhaps not in such rich cities as Wroclaw, but in rural and urban communities, most often with such a formula that these self-governments add a lot to educational tasks. The instrument, which is in this law and which has been proposed by a group of Members, is in fact an instrument that supports and relieves local authorities in this area and in this respect. I ask the High House to give a positive opinion on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute of query to an authorised representative of the government, of course related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would actually like to repeat this question which I asked the rapporteur earlier, because I did not ask whether this amendment would come into force or not, something will change or will not change. It is clear that if the amendment does not enter into force, we are not changing anything in this regard. I asked whether, according to the solutions that are in this law, educational entities would be limited to the possibility of submitting applications. That's more what I asked. I'd like that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u81	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u82	Thank you for that question. Of course, apart from the formal requirements, there will be no restrictions in the competition, no other restrictions, so there is neither the compulsion to participate in the competition nor the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With such a simple text: does it go like this? also those programmes which, thanks to the Minister, but above all through schools, could help to make up for the delays that resulted from the fact that part of the school obligation was carried out in a remote form? Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that remotely not everything can be taught. I'm a teacher, I know, but maybe those of you who don't have kids don't have any contact with school anymore... But you can easily imagine that. I think such extra activities, extracurricular activities, paid for, for example. with the money from such a ministerial program, they would do well for all children, but also teachers, because they will earn more, as well as for local governments, because they will have a better educated society on their territory, let alone that they may add less to education. And now the question is: why do you not want to allow such programmes to be launched? They're needed now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u86	Thank you for that question. Yes, this proposal, this legal solution, will provide an opportunity to complete, supplement all the shortcomings that arise in connection with the recent pandemic situation. Yeah, I'm sure it is. It seems that this would be a good instrument for the realization of the good of the child above all, the good of children in this educational dimension, for sure, but also in the social dimension. Let us remember that this period in which we are presently is extremely difficult, because it is no longer possible, at a time when individual legal solutions are in force, so-called. covid, to realize everything that might seem necessary and necessary to us. Returning a child to school is not a return on the principle of throwing immediately into deep water in the maximum and increased limit of hours. These must be thought out and implemented by high-class teachers, such as the Polish school has. These programs also provide the opportunity to carry out activities such as leaving school for the museum. And this is also a very important and important aspect at this time of postcovid or really still covid. So that we read here, as representatives of the Ministry, the intentions of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome... [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal? I'm sorry, one thing...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u88	So this is also, as I understand it, a kind of tour, where the class is reunited after a year-and-a-half, let's call it this, not being together... Well, yes, I understand that this isn't just about sitting in the classroom, it's about outside action. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: If the Marshal permits...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u89	Sure. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u90	I'm gonna be giving Minister Czarnek a big push... I do not know how strong I will be here to convince, but at one time, as a representative of the Seym opposition, I argued within the framework of the educational program, educational Law and Justice that every senior would visit these places, which are extremely important for Polish tradition, Polish political culture, such as Krakow, Warsaw, Lviv and Vilnius. These are the places that are actually very important. But you can also think about what Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was talking about today. It is worth that our students can, or should, also visit places such as Auschwitz, such as Stutthof, places that show what the world is without value and how deeply our thinking about the past should take into account these historical aspects. We often go past what we call the monuments of history, and we don't pay attention to them at all. We have a smartphone in our hands, headphones in our ears, and in front of our eyes. Glasses, and this world becomes such a one-dimensional world. These programmes, as I read the intentions of the Members of the applicants, would give opportunities not only for what is directly related to the implementation of the programme base, but for this programme basis to strengthen and extend precisely what I mentioned here, i.e. to visit places so important and important for the history of Poland and Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u92	I have the feeling of a growing misunderstanding. I would like to say at the outset that the Ministry of Education is already implementing various kinds of programmes and projects. And for that, this bill is not necessary. I would like to remind you that the program is being implemented.Active table, good start, dignity, freedom, independence, school meal, rest base etc., etc. For this reason, I will ask the Minister directly the question which has also been raised in the Seym. The aim was to establish a catalogue of objectives which do not fall within the Minister's powers to date, and this law would possibly give them a chance to achieve these objectives. Let me remind you that the request to enter a directory appeared in the Seym, but was rejected. I'm interested in why. I mean, what exactly are the goals to be achieved, and so far they are not. And let me stress once again: the list of ministry programs is quite wide at the moment, it can even be said that it is quite large. That's the first question. And the other. I have already received help from Senator Swede, because the question in my case does not work in such a philosophy that the question does not bother me and I answer something else. The question was asked precisely and I answered it precisely. And now the question to the Minister: what gap will arise? Are you already precise in the absence of this law? Because I don't see that gap, I mean. There will be no new possibility. This new possibility should be presented by the Ministry in the form of catalogues of specific objectives which do not fall within the existing programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u93	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u94	Thank you for that question. It really shows 2 separate perspectives for viewing social, political and educational realities, and especially how to implement education policy. This instrumentarium, which will be created, if the High Senate approves, will adopt this law by adopting an appropriate resolution, will give us really great flexibility. I agree with the senator that there are already many programs implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science, but please remember that this last year It has actually been going on for a year and a half, and it has shown that these instruments should not, I would say, be sturdy, but rather flexible. It is therefore unnecessary to calculate those objectives, which would result directly from the Act or be included in the Act, and also At least in my opinion I'm a dwarf. I will repeat once again: the Minister is obliged to present the main tasks of education policy every year. So, depending on the changing situation, we would be obliged to amend the law on a case-by-case basis. Well, it would turn out that we didn't see any particular situation in the bill. That's one thing. Finally, it would be possible to close this discussion with such a formula that the purpose of the law or the legal standard is, by its very nature, to be of a general nature, so that it can relate to the widest possible range of cases in terms of, I would say, material. So let me repeat again: enumerative calculation of targets is something limiting. The Pandemic showed that such limitations are not good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Blackobay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Senator Zdrojewski has already mentioned the targets. The Minister said it would limit us. But do you calculate what is relevant to the objectives and effects of this project? That's the first question. The second question concerns the transfer of funds. Do you think that this is the way Members proposed in the bill is the only way to carry out the tasks to be carried out by schools? Is this the only way to support schools? That's the second question. And the third question. I don't know if I heard right, Minister. Are you predicting that this year you will use about PLN 10 million to support this program? I'm asking you to answer these three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u98	With regard to the way in which educational institutions operate, this programme would, of course, be one of the few programmes that are already in operation. I would like to remind you that in addition to these programmes which have financial support from the state budget, there are not a small number of programmes and projects where schools can apply for external funding. Well, we all know what space we're in. Actually, we shouldn't differentiate between these sources. Besides, it is important for me, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, that these objectives, which are defined each year in the educational policy of the State, be implemented effectively. And then there's the second question. Yes, we predict that if the law comes into force, it will actually amount to That's what we estimate. Seven hundred and ten million. But I would like to point out that these are measures that are already under the authority of the Ministry. It is an amount that may not seem big, but it would be significant to begin with. Let us remember that the project was a parliamentary project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I fully agree. We're in a special situation. In the school year that is about to end, children were more at home than at school because of the pandemic of Coronavirus. I would like to ask if the Minister has such knowledge as the new programmes, what projects are planned for the new school year by the Ministry. Please answer if, of course, you have that knowledge. If not, I'll ask for written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u101	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u102	First of all, it is the implementation of the programme that you have adopted as part of the statutory arrangements. The amount of nearly 180 million is intended to fill the gaps that may have arisen due to the pandemic. This is an increase in the number of hours. Individual directors and teachers will decide on this issue. As far as the schedule of these hours is concerned, once again, it is impossible to increase the number of hours in a meaningful way, because we need to keep the welfare of the child in mind. This increase will probably be greater than September, from next year's school. This is the first programme, which concerns the shortcomings that result from the depletion of the range of knowledge transmitted. The second program, which is and will be implemented, is a program that was created in cooperation with the physical education dorms, aimed at creating a Sport Club system, a system that will allow for improving the physical condition of young people. That is also what the financial resources are for. The third pillar is related to mental condition, i.e. support for students provided by pedagogical and psychological counseling. This also applies to the teaching staff. The fourth point is what concerns cooperation with the Ministry of Health, and is aimed not only at carrying out research but also at supporting what is related to the weakness of young people's eyesight. Such a weakness may have arisen as a result of too frequent use of computer equipment. These are the four main issues. These programmes are implemented and implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Blackbay with an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u104	Minister, I am pleased with the declaration that the support will also be available to local governments. I understand that this is mainly about small local governments, because they have the biggest problem when it comes to education and budget support. Can the Minister tell you what amount local governments add to education each year?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u105	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u106	I'm the opponent... It's really hard for me to tolerate a statement that local governments are adding up. This is the task that rests on the government and on the state. Education policy is an accident of actions, which are actions of both the state and the local government. There's no contradiction here, there's no conflict here. The government, or authority that we as senators are also, plays a major, important role in the transfer of funds to carry out this task. Let us remember, however, that this task also lies with local governments. I'm asking you to step away from this rhetoric, from saying that local governments are adding up. Self-governments are structures, communities, collectiveities, and local authorities are authorities who probably fully recognize the needs of local communities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u107	Thank you, Minister. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a question. Thank you, Minister, for presenting these initiatives, but I would like to ask if there will be any change in the context of this amendment in the context of the fact that those who are going to apply for help and who are going to receive it, or who are not going to receive it... 'Cause I can see that this place is gonna be all about the deal... Will this situation be so transparent that we will have access to the data as we have done so far? Because now it's all on the ministry's pages, and we can, of course, see what entities have applied for funding, what they have received, what they haven't received...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u109	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u110	Mr. Senator, please repeat the last part of the question. You're welcome... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u111	I am referring to those who will apply for support and who will receive them as part of the projects that the Minister has mentioned. Because we have a clear situation here, and I understand that this is going to remain, which means that it will always be possible on the Ministry's pages to find out who has possibly received and what subsidies. I ask this in the context of this amendment, which was tabled in the Sejm, concerning the introduction of an obligation to report on the use of funds. I do not see the need for such a report here, because I know that in the case of the Ministry of Education or another Ministry, everything has always been transparent, there has been a certain procedure under which you can apply for funds, and there have been listed entities who have received or have not received these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator, for repeating that question. The Act provides that criteria will be defined each time in respect of the competition being announced, so also in this case they will be defined, as the Act says, the subject of the programme, the entities entitled to participate in the programme and the conditions for participation in the programme. So... it's also important to remember that this competition must meet all those requirements that are... well, in this case, the rules and rules on public procurement. So that there is neither excessive bureaucracy nor situations that would make it difficult in any particular way. It is only a matter of ensuring that the mode of conducting the competition itself, as well as the subsequent settlement of the project, are transparent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Eva Matecka, please ask her questions. [[I'll be in the debate...]] And I'm sorry, I've been... Excuse me, Senator. I ask Senator Janusz Bladder to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was about to ask no questions, but if I hear that for this, say, action that Members have prepared, we are going to allocate PLN 7 million when we in this Chamber gave 170 million extra classes just in connection with the pandemic a month ago... So what are we really talking about? Minister, you said you wanted every senior to go to Krakow, Warsaw, Oświęcim, Lviv or somewhere... What's the problem? Let's say that we're putting it up, here we are: every senior goes to the places that the Minister was talking about, we're spending some money on it, we're gonna put it on here very quickly, without discussion. But what we're really discussing here is something we don't know what it's for, why, and what the 7 million zlotys are really going to be. But for that to be a question... Is the amount of PLN 7 million a sum that will guarantee us the purpose of the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u117	One corrigendum. Oświęcim we can visit privately, but when it comes to Auschwitz, it seems that this place is slightly different than the city of Oświęcim itself. Although there is a very important teaching and learning institution, i.e. the higher education institution. Captain Witold Pilecki. As to the question, Mr Senator, first of all, we are talking here about the project, I will repeat, the parliamentary, second, we are talking here about the programme, thirdly, we are talking about competitions concerning the implementation of... the competition announced by the Minister of Education and Science of the competition. I will remind you that the law is not created for one political camp. In this case, the law on the education system is a law which applies equally to us, as those who have the majority of the Seym, as well as those who do not have the majority. So I don't understand the suggestion, especially from a party and coalition that calls itself a citizen's and a liberal one, aimed at the fact that everything has to be decreed, that any non-decreted action is not called something dangerous. For you as liberals, it should probably be completely natural that the framework and nature of the standards should be as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Blackobay's next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u119	Minister, as a person who has worked in the local government for 20 years, I would like to thank you very much for the lecture on who is contributing to whom. It was a very valuable lecture. So now I'm gonna ask you to answer my question, not try to teach someone who adds something. Minister, let me ask you this. In what amount in the municipality, in Poland education is financed by educational subsidies, which is approved in the state budget, and how much of the community's own income do they spend on financing educational projects?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u121	From the state budget it is the amount of PLN 52 billion. And as far as local governments are concerned, we should ask this question to individual local governments. Recently, I have had the pleasure of talking to the vice president of the city of Krakow and I will say that indeed these expenditures, which are borne by cities such as Krakow, are definitely significant. But it's hard for me to answer that question right here in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u123	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Minister, I wasn't supposed to ask any questions, but since one of the previous speakers said that when it comes to the $7 million, we don't know what we're talking about, I'm going to ask you a question... I have just asked the Minister what new programmes, what projects are planned for the new school year by the Ministry, and you have given a concrete, substantive answer. Because that's what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u124	As I understand it, it wasn't a question. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Education, so that it can be effective and adapted to time requirements, should be professional and above all apolitically managed. Both substantive and formal, it must focus on preparing the student to function in a globalised world, in a multicultural community and in an atmosphere of mutual respect, so it cannot form a field of ideological struggle, worldview indoctrination or one-way area of emotional control and psyche of the young man. The education system should raise and educate people of free, conscious values resulting from tolerance, respect for differentness and acceptance of diversity. For this to happen, educational institutions must absolutely have the highest autonomy possible. This applies to both school heads and teachers as well as to leading bodies. The educational offer should also take into account local needs, which are often completely ignored by the centralized system. However, the law adopted by the majority on the amendment of the law on the education system and the law on the financing of educational tasks seems not to have been recognised and not taken into account. On the contrary, the Act is a step in the opposite direction towards centralisation both at the level of acceptance of programmes and projects and their financing. This is a parliamentary presentation, and this raises our additional concern that such an important law as education law is followed by a short legislative path without proper consultation and analysis. The proposed provisions in practice may mean that the Minister or the officials appointed by him will decide which programme, which type of activity or organisation will appear in the school, i.e. they will actually define the whole educational process from the top. There are no specifics in this project, no program types, no program catalog, no target catalog. Already today there are loud announcements of the elimination of anti-discrimination activities, the refusal to allow schools of environmental organisations or projects promoting civil society or education in the scope of the Constitution of the Republic. The proposed law seems to be even more dangerous in the context of extremely worrying ideas coming from the Ministry of Education and Science. Of course, we are talking about giving authority over educational institutions to curators, or de facto officials strictly enforcing centrally issued orders. However, the Polish school needs democratisation, not centralisation. She needs autonomy, not embarrassing programming directives. Teaching is a process in which a person should be open to the world as a final result. Education can't be the spoil of power. It is therefore necessary to create such draft laws in which all the dangers that we have talked about and which are enshrined in this law will be eliminated. For these very reasons, I consider the submitted project to be dangerous and difficult to reconcile with the proposed modern, universal and open school model character. That makes him impossible to support in his current form. And last but not least, I'm going to remind you of what happened here. It wasn't that long ago that we tried to increase the educational reserve. In our amendments, we also proposed to increase this reserve by nearly PLN 100 million, intended to increase the competences of students, to equalise the chances of pupils. And it was you who were against this change, against the additional increase in the educational reserve, through our amendment, for an additional PLN 100 million. Now you are proposing that this year 7 million PLN should be allocated to education. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u127	I'm here, Mr. Marshal... [[We see and rejoice in this fact.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start with a few words from the debate. Once again, I would like to thank you very warmly for the language, but I understand that the Minister knew what I was asking. I'd like to say yes. In the '90s... Oh, I'd just like to say, Minister, especially for you, that I've been working in local governments for 20 years, for 7 years I've been personally involved in education without being a teacher. And after these questions that have been raised here and the discussion being discussed, often not only in this room, I think that sometimes I understand education better than those who consider themselves to be very well-managed, who know about education. Minister, 7 million PLN or 10 million PLN... I asked if this was the only way. Well, this is the way you, as PiS, prefer. Why do we think it shouldn't be like this? Well, we have experience. with you. The National Freedom Institute... Well, I guess you're calling for 30. I've already stopped counting. The various kinds of institutions that distribute the state's money, our money, taxpayers. Why are you calling them? Why are you running these instruments? And to pursue client policy. I mean, who's the biggest beneficiary at the National Freedom Institute? Well, I can say that because I'm almost the same age as an old cabaret player who gets the biggest profits. And people, really great artists, are knocking on the institute and asking, could you help us out because we have a huge financial problem? And the Local Government Investment Fund? Well, Minister Buda here said he wasn't involved, and then I read that he was one of the members of this team. And how did you split the money? For your own and even without processing your applications. I heard the committee got a list of who to give and how much, and it was only approved. And now you are going in the next direction: the Minister will create for PLN 7 million... So it's easy to divide, Minister, if we divide 7 million zlotys or 10 million zlotys by 3,000 units or 2,000... about 3,000 units of self-government, then there's a twisting amount. Normally, you know, hands fall down. PLN 3,000 per unit of local government. Well, you're really gonna do a lot of cool shows. And you know how this ends? He's gonna get some of those you've already seen, you're gonna give them that money, 10 million zlotys. You don't even run the appeal system, because you know best how to do it and who to give it to. And here's what I'm going to say: in the 1990s, Poland also participated in such a seminar, in Paris, Minister, such a discussion, which is a good school. People were discussing. And one conclusion was this, confirmed by facts and research... And yet you are a man of science, for you, knowledge is the foundation of decision-making, I understand. The more centralism, the worse the school, the more centralism, the bigger the school. And you also want to share the money... There was an emperor named Bokassa in the Central African Republic who you know how he shared the money? Yeah, that's right. He had $7 million and he said, "Aha, I like you, you have a million." The culture guy didn't like it, he didn't give it anything. And that's how you want to share. And there are several countries in Europe Well, you don't have to make up a wheel. That achieve fantastic results in education, Minister. These are Scandinavian countries, especially Finland, which changes the education system for 30 years. And we want... I mean, I'm sorry: you want to do exactly the opposite, just like the Hungarians did. And they have a huge fall in the quality of education. And you're going the same way. Therefore, as the grandfather of your grandchildren, please do not go this way. Follow the proven methods of achieving fantastic results. What's a good school? The words of a good school often fall, and I would like it to be a good school. I'm here, among others. I have written down some of the elements that are written in the state policy in Finland. And do you know what the Minister of Education and Politicians are for? Don't mess with the education management system. And never to be presented in Parliament It's written like this. I'm gonna do an education thing. This is a process that arises from consultations, discussions, debates, etc. And you've got one envoy coming up, inventing 10 million... Of course, under the watchful eye of the Minister who told him: you know, you put it that way, and I already know what to spend it on. When I know life... They put it together, they prepared it, and you're presenting it today. And good education, ladies and gentlemen, is not one where centralism flourishes. A good education is one in which there is creativity, self-government, where the minister cares about prestige and money, he is involved in establishing a framework. Of all these frameworks in Finland, only 30% are mandatory under the programme. What about us? Well, the programs... When I look at what children learn today, my hands fall down. And you guys are adding up. Instead of going into creativity, ability to predict, analysis, it is you: encyclopedism, encyclopedism, encyclopedism. And what do you suggest we do here? You're still strengthening the probation officer. I think you know that, Minister, but maybe not all senators do, especially those in Law and Justice. There are no parole officers in Finland. [[Voice from the room: Impossible!]] Please? There are no parole officers there. Turns out the teacher doesn't need a guardian. Because the probation officer is someone who helps people who aren't doing well in life, in the market, etc. That's what a parole officer is for. So you're going in exactly the opposite direction than the world. And now I hear you want your parole officer to appoint a headmaster. Well, have the Minister call him. What's the parole officer for? Tell the minister to call right away. In a good school, in Scandinavian school, parents, local governments and pillars of the whole education system, i.e. teachers, decide. The teacher is the pillar. And do you know how a prestige teacher was built in Finland? By increasing wages, total independence and lack of supervision. There are no guidelines: you have to do this, anyway, and we will control you. As you compare the number of reports, those tons of paper you want from a Polish teacher... And the teacher in the Scandinavian country twice a year gives information about what his goals were. The rest is judged by local governments and parents. The framework for the functioning of education shall be established by the Minister. Well, you spoke beautifully about history lessons, about the fact that you have to go to certain places. There are countries that implement such programmes. Do you know how? Well, not like you. Don't make up a wheel if it's made up. A program is established that every senior is to visit the following places in Poland. The school's money is granted and the school reports where the students were and what was realized. Turn it around. Don't tell me how, where, who or what. And what I'm trying to say is that when you read today... And before that debate, I read some research on a good school and a bad school. It's obvious what the senator was talking about. A good school is a school where students learn at school, not at home. And there's no tutoring. Students in Finland have 50 hours less per year than students in Poland and do not do homework at home. In their homes they develop interests, and in their free time they develop interests. And now let's look at this encyclopedic system with probation. Yeah, you're gonna put some more in there. What's causing this? This causes stress in both teachers and students. Polish Students According to recent research, before the pandemic, they often said in Europe that they hated schools. We have the highest percentage of students who hate school. I'm not talking about the stress of teachers anymore. And on what do you want to build the quality of Polish education? On those 7 million distributed without appeal, on the basis of a bill proposed by Members and adopted without consultation? Is this how you want to build Polish education management? Minister, a system of decent education has already been built in the world. Don't take the example of Belarus, Russia, Hungary, just look... [[Ten minutes.]] I'm almost done. Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Take an example from those countries where success has been achieved. The Minister has a completely different function to perform. He has a role to play in the framework of education, not in giving away money. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I would like to conclude by reading the most important points of this whole mass of elements that have been included in the law adopted by the Finnish Government. There are four main pillars. Good staff is well-paid staff. There's no respect for a mispaid teacher. The second pillar is a far-reaching decentralisation. Schools have autonomy there. Today or yesterday, I think on Radio Wrocław, the Minister said that school autonomy was some kind of abstraction. There's a stable system, politicians stay out of this system. They set up a framework for it, but they don't interfere with it. The school supports flexibility and creativity and does not implement encyclopedic knowledge and programs invented by politicians. That's it, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sorry to inform you that you're out of time. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of my predecessor, I'm going to say it's a very beautiful idea. It's a democratic school. That is what we should aim for as a society of free people. Today we are considering a law on amending the Law on the system of education and the Law on the financing of educational tasks. That's surprising, because as we can see clearly, this bill is going in a completely different direction. It is also surprising that, in fact, the same governing team, the same Members decide to increase the pace of humiliation of Polish education, making a profound destruction of the law which was established only three years ago, and thus further deprive democracy of schools and local governments according to the slogan: I pay and demand. The first reservation I have was already raised during the committee's work, and this is about the procedure for the bill to be proceded. A draft of a parliament that comes under the authority of the minister... There is a point in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure that such projects should be addressed to a wide range of consultations, but it is strange that this has been omitted in the documents sent to the Senate, lacking opinions and conclusions... Was it or wasn't it? We don't know. The second reservation today has been explained a little bit... It's about the amount of resources. We did not receive this information during the committee's work. One might ask if this is a testing phase, how we're going to do this project. If it works out for us, next year we'll spend more money on it. Yes? I have the impression that this is a law that guarantees the absolute discretion of the choice of projects from the Minister of Education. Another interesting, but also very shocking aspect of the present law is the fact that the article. The 90u Act on the Education System very clearly clarifies the mechanism related to the financing of various educational programmes, in detail defines the objectives of these programmes and the ways in which they are cleared. This law omits the Council of Ministers and gives the Minister of Education and Science the creation of tools for financing various programmes Regional, local and government, as I understand it. And all kinds of programmes set up by the Minister on a one-man basis, despite the fact that competitions are to be announced. Thus, there are 2 options: either the Council of Ministers will reduce its competence in the field of education of children and young people without implementing the guidelines set out in Article. 90u Act on the Education System, or And it seems more dangerous. The applicants of the act in question deliberately circumvent the guidelines contained in the article. 90u. According to the proposed provisions, the Minister will not have to apply to the Council of Ministers in this respect and will choose autonomously. The education system, as we know perfectly well, lacks resources. It has already been mentioned here today that funding education is not only a subsidy but also a means of the municipality. That's why I think that... everyone who's related to education emphasizes this educational disadvantage. The question is why another form of financing is being created outside of subsidised funding. This may give rise to the fear that you want to finance something that is missing the existing rules. In the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, applicants made one significant sentence: the draft law amending the Law on the system of education and the Law on the financing of educational tasks allows the Minister responsible for education and education to establish programmes and projects to implement the educational policy of the State. The question arises as to whether the Minister has had the opportunity so far and why he has not used it. The answer is simple, it is in the existing provisions of the Article. 90u, which clearly defines the objectives, measures for the operation of the programmes. In the proposed project, it is not the Council of Ministers, and the Minister himself determines the objectives, the means of implementation, selects the implementing entities, evaluates the effectiveness of the actions. At the same time, the relationship resulting from k.p.a. is excluded. That means the minister is making decisions that will not be appealed against. So if we take into account the next projects that have come to light, we will see that we are dealing with a situation where one person has the power and management of educational programs, and only it will depend on them to determine the objectives and what resources they will spend. If we combine these ideas with the project of last week's revision of education law, we will see an image of manual control of the education system by the minister's governors, i.e. curators. I cannot believe that 30 years after the introduction of a modern, excellent law on the education system, we return to the darkness of the times of one-man party decision-makers. At the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Przemysław Czarnek, as Minister of Education and Science, took responsibility for the fact that the educational objectives will be pursued in line with the needs of the students and expectations of the modern world, and that the Minister will connect the educational environments around these goals and give the educational staff tools to implement them and allow them to freely implement them. After the media speeches, unfortunately, we can see that the objectives are beginning to be freely formulated by the Minister, and the amendments made in the Ministry are not intended to improve the education system, but merely to limit the role of local governments and teachers in shaping programmes and how they are implemented. I have the impression that the slogan of all authority in the hands of the Minister is as adequate and valid as possible. You have to ask yourself: where are we going? Do we want to entrust the government of our children's souls to Minister Black? I don't. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will apologize at the outset for violating the matter of the bill, slightly, but it seems to me that the excuse for this is extraordinary, and responsibility for children, for which the youngest generation simply requires it. We all see how the world changes, how it changes from the technological, civilizational, ways of communication, also the need for specific competences. We must not be indifferent to this, we must observe it not only in Poland, in Europe, but also in the world. It is our duty as parliamentarians, it is the duty of the government, it is the duty of parents, teachers, in short, all, to varying degrees, but all. I would like to point out that when today's six-year-old, who goes into the educational system, this preschool and school system, starts this really adult life, we're going to be 2036 and 2040. What will the world look like then? We must anticipate this, today we must have an imagination, what the effect of the educational system should be today in 2035, 2036, 2040. I have the impression that what we get in the form of partial solutions is nothing to anticipate the future, to anticipate the situation. I'll tell you right away, I'm not an orthodox opponent of expanding competence. In such a way that this does not take place at the expense of other entities, including, for example, local governments. I believe that what the Minister said could be in effect so that here, in the Senate, we are considering the draft amendment of the Minister's existing programmes in order to make them more flexible, easier to implement, more transparent to the public, with the rules we discussed in the committee. Meanwhile, we receive a partial project, alienated from this even negative assessment of the current state of affairs, i.e. programmes which, I understand, are too rigid, inconvenient, inflexible and not giving the right tools to implement the policy. But first things first. As far as the education system is concerned, we need to have a model. I'm against the idea of finding the best, most optimal models in the world. Sometimes Finns appear, sometimes Singapore, models may be unusual, but very modern. Let's be honest with ourselves right now that neither one or the other is applicable in our circumstances, under our circumstances, for various reasons. I will immediately add that the Singaporean model is so far different from what we think about enlightening at the moment, that it hurts, with this basic element, that countries that have the most efficient education systems from the point of view of technology development start to introduce children into education in the second, third years of age. And we, after proposing to go down to six, eventually ruled out this possibility and pushed the children into this educational system extremely late. What does that mean? Delayed children in development. Today, children grow faster than they did 100 years ago. They require faster, more appropriate educational tools. If they are not in the educational system, they learn on their own because they learn, with their parents or using television, the Internet, things. Not on a pussy anymore, no, not on a pussy anymore. It's important to me that when I look at some of these programs, I've exchanged them: Active array, Dignity, Freedom, Independence, Security plus, etc., etc. I find everything there, but not ahead of time, I find everything there, but not responsibility for the future, I find there many issues concerning such very fundamental and often valuable elements as knowledge of the past, but definitely not preparation for the future. That's what I want to draw attention to. I look at the various initiatives of both young people who are just starting to study and those who are still in high school, high school, initiatives such as School 2.0, and I see that children understand more from what the world will look like in 15 years than those who are responsible for education today. I would ask these young, capable, imaginatively and already with knowledge more often, also ask about what school they think of, dreaming of their future. Today we should not have a dilemma or memory or skill. Sticking further dates into our children's minds by heart, by heart, by memory completely misses the technical possibilities, with the possibilities that lie within the digital world. In general, it is more important to be able to find this date and, above all, learn to interpret it at school, to know what the story shows, how to use phenomena, events, determinism, historical determinism to explain what might happen in the future as a result of events of today, imagination. I have to say that I've been looking at the Ministry of Education since 1989, and this is such an extremely active observation, with the expression of compassion. I don't know if you know this, but in these 30 years we have the 21st Minister of Education, Education, Education, Education and Science. The briefest, as I recall, was Minister Legutko, probably less than 3 months, the longest were 3 people: Katarzyna Hall, Minister Handke and Mrs Zalewska Approximately 4 years. How can you build something extremely positive in such rapidly changing conditions, including personal responsibility? It seems to me that no responsibility of the government, which has the opportunity to exercise its mandate for a long time, should focus on changing the name of the ministry and the scope of competence, only on what will allow children to be prepared for, in short, the challenges of the 21st century, to the challenges I mentioned in 2036, 2037 or 2040. What would I be counting on today or bet on? What would I appeal to the Ministry for? First of all, to teach children cooperation to teach children cooperation, so that as many classes as possible are geared towards mutual cooperation. Because at the moment, the greatest successes in the technological world are due to international cooperation, interpersonal cooperation, cooperation between different centres. Cooperation and cooperation. Here's another thing. It is necessary to eliminate from the education system homophobic teachers, those who exclude, do not understand, are unable to accept the diversity of views, beliefs, talents etc. And I sense, from time to time, listening to the minister say that a homophobic educator will be protected by him. The next issue is environmental sensitivity. Young people are ecologically sensitive, but education in this matter must lead to professionalization, to understanding the phenomena that are related to this ecology. Well, the kids are related to the subject, too. It is very important for me that the school develops talents so that it is diverse to accept physical and mental diversity among children, so that PE classes, practical activities or any other activities give these children the opportunity to develop the most important talents, the most important predispositions, the most important skills. You shouldn't equalize them to one pattern or model, because this is the path to disaster. I look at children through opportunities, but also through threats. Now a little bit of politics. I remember one important politician saying about the Polish people that the gray nation is stupid, so he'll buy it. I want to tell you that children like fairy tales. But they should know that what they're presented with is a fairy tale that's an unrealistic reality. If we push fairy tales as truth, we'll do them great harm, we'll do them great harm. But I would like to stress that we will also harm you, we will also harm the nation. We must be truly responsible for education and science. We need to be really open and really effective, but we also need to respect some diversity. If I had to comment on this law, I would say that today is a chance for school in Poland Not in Singapore, not in Finland, not in France, there is diversity. These models should be as flexible as possible. Let us trust local governments and give them the chance to modify at least some of the elements of the educational system. Self-governments know well what the labour market looks like and how the world changes. Let us stay as far away from politics as possible, as far away from ideology, as far away from propaganda as possible, as far away from opinion, but as close as possible to facts. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with a huge increase in the demand for awareness about the person himself and his predisposition. Psychology is important, knowledge about medicine, prevention, all the elements that will determine how long these children will live, how they will communicate with doctors and nurses, how they will respond to various signals about their body. And that's what I want to focus on, and that's what I want to say, because these are the segments that will decide the future of the child, his health, his competence, his ability to work with other people. And I would also immediately recommend tightening up, not loosening the bond between the educational system, for which the local government is responsible, and what is happening in science. I know very well a few experiments about trying to get universities to get to high school students faster, so that this cooperation is more and more open and mutually reinforcing. As I heard, one of the most important elements of the New Polish Order will be the division of knowledge, history of Poland and history of the world. I have to say, I didn't believe it. We have fought so long for us not to be alone so that we can be in Europe, with the civilized world, with the world of the West, and now we want to bring about the situation of hermeticising us in the field of knowledge itself? It's amazing to me. I must say that the responsibility of us here in the Senate is that these perspectives, which are most important for the young generation, should be opened, not closed, so that in the case of education they do not argue, only cooperate, and that children should be protected, not assaulted by politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the following senators have made their speeches to the minutes: Ms Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Mrs Halina Bieda, Mr Aleksander Szwed, Mr Janusz Gromek, Mr Janusz Pęcherz, Mr Adam Szejnfeld and Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the Chamber: Another legislative proposal...]] Oh, I'm so sorry. The legislative proposal was made by Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: I would like to refer, very briefly, perhaps in one, two sentences, to these voices in the discussion.]] Minister, the problem is we've already closed the discussion. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Good.]] I closed the discussion. I would like to ask you if you would like to refer to the application made by Senator Kopiczko. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: No.]] No. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, it was a legislative proposal. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Law on the change of the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences to them. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. The text of the act is contained in print No 408, and the report of the committee In print No 408 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u133	There will be no dispute here, and there will be full agreement. I will start with some justification, which was directed to my hands by your rector, Professor Marek Adamski from the University of Technology and Nature in Bydgoszcz, who wanted to attend our meeting, received an invitation, but unfortunately our schedule was so uncertain, and the classes at the university are now extremely intense that he could not plan this arrival so early that, in short, he would accompany us. But you. The rector greets us warmly. We greet and rector, and high senate, and university council, and employees and students of this university. As for the bill, very short... Before I introduce her, a brief introduction. It is important to remember that a change in the name of the university takes place in the mode of the law, for this reason this project passes through the Sejm and the Senate and goes to the President's signature. I will also remind you that changing the name of the university The change from University to Polytechnic is subject to certain conditions. These conditions relate to certain qualifications held by universities. As far as polytechnics are concerned, these are doctoral degrees in a given number of fields. I will immediately say that the university we are talking about today meets these conditions with a certain surplus. With regard to the committee's meeting, the committee gave a positive opinion on the bill. The Act is annexed to print No 408. Let me remind you once again that this is about renaming the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jana and Jędrzej Śniadeckie in Bydgoszcz named after the Bydgoszcz University of Technology. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadeckie. It is important that during the committee meeting questions were raised as to whether this change is starting to change at the university or whether it is its finality. The answer we have obtained can be regarded as extremely satisfying, because it turned out that the change in the name of the university is the result of changes that have already taken place, but as the rector, the professor, told us, it is also related to design and planned changes. I will remind those who do not know that the university is currently preparing a project of changes, various changes related to science, research. This perspective, which is determined by more than 20 members of the team, is the 2021-2025 period. It is also important that we make this change in the Jubilee Year of the University. This is so important that this university has actually experienced many changes since 1951. Then, in short, an evening engineering school was established, then a high school, and now, as I said, is a natural university with huge merit in training mainly such specialists who contribute significantly to the change of the landscape of Poland in terms of things related to construction, engineering, and thus to those elements that are valuable, perceived and necessary from our point of view. For this, I would like to thank the university once again. The committee's opinion is clearly positive, unanimous, and that is what I recommend to you. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u134	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. You are Minister Vladimir Bernacki. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Yes, if the marshal permits...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u135	At the beginning of my speech, I would like to talk about some of these purely statistical but very important issues. Currently, the University of Technology and Nature conducts 35 courses of study. The number of students in the semester 2020/2021 was a total of 6,000 348 people, including 48 people from outside Poland. As far as the number of academic teachers is concerned, this is the number of 560 teachers, so not a small one. The powers referred to here by Senator Zdrojewski are, in fact, the powers to confer a doctor's degree in 8 disciplines and the powers to confer a doctor's degree in 3 disciplines. Let me remind you that this requirement, when it comes to giving a doctor's degree, is much lower, because it is 6 disciplines. Here we have 8 disciplines and they actually include those teachings that are related to polytechnic education. With regard to the number of PhD students, there are currently 38 students in doctoral studies, and in doctoral school, so in this school operating in the new system of law, we have 35 people. Finally, what Senator Zdrojewski has not mentioned here, and what is very important to me from a not formal point of view, but such, I would say, is the essence of the matter. Namely, Professor PhD Habilized Engineer, I will add the Engineer, because this title of engineer for most humanists or those who have been educated in social sciences is such a bit of a title that causes jealousy. Marek Adamski is the one who received an education at his home university, where he later received a doctoral degree. It was this school that asked for the degree of doctor-habilitated and the title of professor. Finally, Professor Dr. Hab. Eng. Marek Adamski is the Rector, so here the path of the current Rector of Magnificus is directly related to the history of the school and shows how important the school plays a role in a community, in this case the community of Bydgoszcz and its surroundings, i.e. the local community. Here, on the one hand, we should thank the academic community of the University of Technology and Nature, thank you, but also congratulate you on what, I hope, will be due to the adoption by the Senate of a law confirming this change of name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u137	Good morning. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Rector! Ladies and gentlemen! I got to know the university in Bydgoszcz very well. I support the initiative. However, I would like to share some thoughts about the previous point, because logistics has failed and I have not been, so to speak, involved in this trend of discussion. I was mobilized here by a very interesting speech by Senator Zdrojewski, including... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] I thank you very much for this speech... ...this previous point has already been completed. It was... But if your marshal would let me use 10 minutes, I'd appreciate it. But this... It's also about education.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u138	That voice, Mr. Senator, well, it's hard to count in this discussion because it's on a completely different subject. So, Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but with this previous item on the agenda... Well, you can't really have a discussion right now, because Mr. Senator... He volunteered after the discussion. [[Voice from the room:... came forward after the discussion.]] [[No, I volunteered during the discussion, but I wasn't included, admitted.]] Mr. Senator... [[I applied for two letters...]] ...here the service and the secretaries confirm that the senator came forward after the discussion was closed. I'm so sorry. Anyway... [[That's, unfortunately, not true. Check the computer logs...]] [[Voice in the room: I'll check it out.]] [[And then it turns out it's not true.]] Mr. Senator, it's already been checked. [[Thank you very much, but the dispute remains. I don't accept that because I know when I pressed Enter, Senator.]] [[Voice from the hall: I have hours here...]] [[As I understand it, your marshal is taking my voice away. Yes, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Can I have another one?]] Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u139	I just wanted to make up for the integrity of the report, because I didn't do it by using some shortcuts... Act amending the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jana and Jędrzej Śniadeckie in Bydgoszcz includes such a change in which we deal with polytechnics, but patrons do not change, i.e. she will be the name of Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki. It's just to make it sound like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Electronic Service. The text of the Act is contained in print No 425 and the committee report In print No 425 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u141	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a position on the Act amending the Electronic Service Act No 425. The Act was dealt with today by the Infrastructure Commission and during the meeting Minister Andruszkiewicz presented the objectives of the Act. Namely, the purpose of the Electronic Service Act is to postpone the deadlines for the implementation of the e-service system, i.e. the deadlines since government and central administration authorities and the CSO, the CRUS and the National Health Fund will have to apply e-service. It is crucial that the state authorities that will carry out e-service are well prepared. COVID Pandemic, which has been going on for over a year And it makes it harder to see through glasses, because they evaporate, causing great difficulties in the implementation of many ICT systems, including e-service systems. Many projects initiated in the European Union were also delayed for this reason. The period of remote work also hinders technical adaptation of equipment, IT systems, testing of a new solution, as well as training for users of the e-service system. The Minister's proposal Because this is a presentation of the government, a delay in the date of entry into force of the Act by 3 months, as well as a change of the deadline since it will be necessary to apply e-service, for the government administration by 9 months, and for the central administration, the CSO, KRUS and the NFZ by 6 months, and, as it seems, the exit of the COVID-19 pandemic will enable the administration to properly prepare its administration to carry out the service that is important for citizens, such as e-service. The time gained will allow for testing and training because their organization was difficult during the pandemic. The bill is a very simple act. I would like to remind you that the Act proposes: to amend the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 July 2021 to 5 October 2021, to change the date of the obligation to apply e-service to the Government administration of 1 October 2021 to 5 July 2022, and to the Central Administration, the CSO, the CRUS, the NFZ of 1 January 2022 to 5 July 2022. The Legislative Office has not tabled legislative amendments to the Act. There have also been no proposals for amendments from the senators. After the discussion, the committee adopted a proposal for a law without amendments, with four senators holding back. On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High House to adopt the contested law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u143	Thank you very much, Marshal. Madam President, I don't really have a question, but a request. Could the senator tell you what the Legal Bureau was thinking? Because there was one doubt. about the fact that this bill comes into force the next day after the party. And here we were wondering that neither the Senate nor the president had those statutory terms that in the legislation... So that I would ask you very much just to say that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u144	The bill is referred to as urgent in the government's submission, and therefore... It wasn't urgent. The legislator said he didn't. I mean, urgent... That's how the Minister put it. Therefore, the Legislative Office had no possibility That's what the legislator said at the committee meeting. In writing, but this opinion was expressed by the legislator in words, being present at the committee's meeting. And I think that since the legislator has not made any comments orally, it means that the proposal raises no objections to the legislative side. Senator Rotnicka also pointed out that she did not agree to such a procedure, that we should proceed with the laws that we are getting to be drafted at the last minute. If I may, as a senator in this House for 11 years, say... The law has 3 articles and is therefore not complicated. And her rank, the importance of it, is that she should be accepted in this submission that we've been working on. I therefore said that four members of the committee abstained from voting, which shows that they did not actually raise objections to the bill, but raised objections. about the procession mode. [[Thank you very much, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u145	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I fully agree that this is a very important project, hence the fast procedure. The aim of the project, as you have already said, is to postpone the deadline for the implementation of services in order to ensure the highest possible quality for end-users. I would like to ask whether, at a committee meeting, statistics were given, how many people, how many individuals, how many governments or other public authorities are covered by this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u147	We did not discuss this at the committee meeting, but we have here in the Chamber of the current Minister Andruszkiewicz, who will answer this question in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u148	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. And I have a question: does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u149	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! In fact, supplementing what the senator has said in an extremely substantive and exhaustive manner, I will say that we are not amending this law with this novel at all the content of the original project, which the honorable Senate adopted last November unanimously, thus supporting our bill. And thank you very much. We are only changing the date of entry into force of the Act because our staff, including the official ones, have been affected by the third wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus, which has caused delays in the implementation of projects and tests and training of official staff. Because of that... As we know, this was a human factor in the fact that the pandemic unfortunately caused diseases in many people, including those who are working on this project, and this caused natural delays. In view of the above, we very much ask the High House to take a positive look at our project so that, without de facto changing any content of this very good project, we can move the entry into force of the Act by a few months and so that we can give citizens a well-tested and efficient electronic service, instead of choosing a hurry. And in answer to the question you asked the senator... the Electronic Service Act will basically apply to all public entities in our country who will be required to communicate with citizens electronically. As far as specific numbers are concerned, we can possibly prepare this to the senator in writing. Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u150	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I understand you're Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, may I ask for this information in writing, i.e. how many individuals and how many public administrations or other bodies will be entitled to use this service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u152	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u153	Yes, you're welcome. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: There you go, Minister...]] Mrs. Marshal, of course. [[In writing, of course.]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: In writing, right?]] Of course, we'll give the senator a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u154	Okay, just in writing. Okay, good. Anyone else? Nobody. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. Of course, for the sake of order... It has already been said that the Minister has committed himself to giving a written answer to the question just asked by Senator Swede. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The text of the Act is contained in print No 426 and the report of the Commission In print No 426 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Ewa Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a report on the work of the committee on amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments, contained in Senate print No 426. The Act was passed at the thirty-first meeting of the Polish Sejm on 15 June this year. It was a government bill which amends the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments by repealing lit. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72. Point 2 of that law. The repealed provisions excluded the requirement to obtain environmental considerations when applying for the modification of concessions referred to in Article. 72. 1 point 4 of the Act, consisting of a one-off extension of the duration of the concession for the extraction of hard coal, brown coal and native sulphur extracted by the hole method. A one-off extension of the concession without obtaining a decision on environmental conditions, in order to maintain the continuity of the extraction of these minerals, was possible only without extending the scope of the concession and when the extension of the concession was justified by a rational deposit economy. Repeal of lit. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 72. Point 2 of the Act also aims to eliminate doubts as to their potential non-compliance with the provisions of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. Art. The 2th contested law is a transitional provision which determines that administrative proceedings initiated and not completed to extend the duration of the concessions referred to in Article. 72. 2 point (2) (a) The amended law shall apply the new provisions. Thus, the exemption from the requirement to obtain an environmental decision cannot be applied and, therefore, to all applications for extension, even once, the duration of the mining concessions in question will have to be decided on the environmental conditions. According to Art. 3 The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the announcement. During the meeting of the joint committees, the bill was discussed by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Piotr Dziadzio. A representative of the Legal Office of the Senate has expressed doubts as to whether there should also be a provision in lit. f in Article. 72. Point 2 of the amended Act. Minister Piotr Dziadzio responded positively to the comments made, and Senator Zdzisław Pupa tabled the appropriate amendments. The amendments, as well as the entire bill, were adopted by joint committees with no votes against, 1 Senator abstained. High Senate, on behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted together with the amendments contained in Senate printing No 426 A.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of the Ministry's representative, Minister Piotr Grandpa. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Dear Mrs Marshal, no. There is no need at the moment, because the committee chair has clearly defined all the aspects covered by the proposed amendment to the law.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! I asked that question at the committee meeting, but I'm going to repeat it or I'm going to rephrase it a little bit differently. Minister, aren't you afraid that the records we have in the bill are short. On access to information and which we applied here a month ago, trying to amend this law... It's mostly about these so-called decisions... well, the accelerated ones, so to speak. Are those decisions which in Polish law are quite often used... I'm not hiding that being president, I've also used this to speed things up. But will these decisions, when the European Union examines these issues very strongly, not be an obstacle to the functioning of our law in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u158	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u159	I don't think there's any such fear. With regard to the first part of your question, Senator, I would like to say that this bill, which was a month ago under review, entered into force on 13 May, so it is difficult to determine its effectiveness today. So that we should think whether the concerns that Mr. Senator presented at the moment are going to happen at all...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you something. The aim of the proposed regulation is to remove from the Environmental Protection Act provisions allowing for a one-off extension of concessions for the extraction of hard coal, brown coal and domestic sulphur. I would like to ask how many such cases we have at the moment, requests for a one-time extension of the concession.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u162	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u163	Mr. Senator, we have no such conclusion at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u164	Thank you very much. Can I add something? Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u165	I want to make it clear what may not have occurred in the committee's report that I have claimed... And the Minister accepted the amendment, which concerns not only the deposits of brown coal, hard coal, sulphur, etc., but also hydrocarbons. Yes? I'd like the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u166	Yes, Senator, I confirm. [[Thank you kindly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, does this amendment have anything to do with what's going on around the Turov mine?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u169	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u170	There is no direct link, because at the time of explaining the issue of the extension of the brown coal mining licence in the mine... It's been preceded by... The environmental impact decision was attached to the concession decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u171	Thank you very much. [[Do you mind if I...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: But...]] Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u172	If you don't mind me filling in... But there is a reasoned opinion from the European Commission, which points out that these rules are not in line with EU rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u173	Thank you, Minister. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u174	Does this amendment improve our negotiating position with the Czech Republic or make it worse?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u175	Yes. [[You mean it's better?]] Yeah, it does.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u176	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now the announcements, announcements will be read. Thank you very much, Minister, for coming to the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u177	The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other acts, Senate printing No 403, will take place on Friday 18 June at 9.00 in rooms No 176 and 179. The meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee on the Education and Finance Act will take place on Friday 18 June at 9.30 a.m. in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-17-senat-26-2.u178	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 03]]
