ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u1	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - immediately after the end of the votes, - Education, Science and Youth - also immediately after the end of the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u2	Thank you very much. We have two formal applications. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u3	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Prime Minister, who's been hiding out there somewhere in the back! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for a break and a call for the Senior Convention to add a debate on our foreign policy after the votes. [[Applause]] Each of us has seen that in recent days there has been a new concert of powers. The new situation in this part of Europe - Germany agreed with the US over our heads and symptomatically from Berlin there was the first call to Moscow. A new order has been established in Europe, and it is not a Polish order. We need to hold a debate on our foreign policy and think about how to conduct it. We need such a debate and we need to discuss the Confederacy's proposal, about multi-vector policy, because today there is really no other proposal on the table. The proposal to lean on Washington didn't work out. We need such a debate for the good of Poland and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u4	Thank you, sir. I'm not calling a convention because it's my authority, but you've filed for a recess. I will put this motion to the vote. As a formal request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 43 for, against - 387, 13 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for the adjournment and the removal from the agenda of the vote on the report on the implementation of the budget in 2020. The Sejm cannot accept the report on the implementation of the budget because this budget is still being implemented. Since billions of spending will be carried out by the end of November, how can the Sejm adopt a report on its implementation in July? This is the financial report - you cannot accept the November report in July, I think everyone understands that. [[Applause]] That's the first reason. But the other one is equally serious. The vote in favour of this report is acceptance, and therefore the joint responsibility for the official crime committed by Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Sasin, throwing 70 million PLN into the mud. [[Applause]] Your marshal, this is the money of Polish taxpayers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm calling on you to do what the Civic Coalition Club is asking you to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u6	Thank you, Member. I ask you, as a request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 211 - for, 231 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1407-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Peter... I'm sorry, one page has shifted. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 120th anniversary of Stanisław Mikołajczyk's birth (print No 1431). I ask Vice-Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the initiative of Mr Andrzej Grzyb and the parliamentarians of Greater Poland, the Sejm Bureau adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 120th anniversary of Stanisław Mikołajczyk's birth, whose content I have the honour to present to the High House. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On July 18, 2021 the 120th anniversary of Stanisław Mikołajczyk's birth - Prime Minister of the Polish Government in exile, President of the Wielkopolska Association of Agricultural Circles, insurgent in Wielkopolska, volunteer in the Polish-Bolshevik War and soldier September 1939. Stanisław Mikołajczyk, after his defeat in the defence war, found himself in exile, where he was Vice-President of the National Council, Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government in exile in the years 1940 and 1943 and Prime Minister of the Government from July 1943 to November 1944. In 1945 he joined the Interim Council of National Unity and as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture and Agricultural Reforms became a symbol of resistance to Communists. The increasing repression against PSL and opposition activists caused him to emigrate from Poland after the fraudulent elections of 1947. The Polish Parliament deprived Stanisław Mikołajczyk of Polish citizenship. Until his death he remained an active immigration policy of PSL, President of the International Social Union, informing about the persecutions and crimes of the People's Poland in Radio Free Europe and during numerous international conferences. In his book 'Poland raped', which was translated into 7 languages, he wrote with full conviction that Poland would be free and democratic. He died in the country, and his ashes returned to Poznań in 2000 and were deposited in the Graveyard of the Deserving Great Poles. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors the memory of Stanisław Mikołajczyk, who fought for democratic Poland, and pays tribute to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u8	I propose that we adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 120th anniversary of Stanisław Mikołajczyk's birth. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1407-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw, prints No. 1388, 1407 and 1407-A. The Committee on Culture and Media decided yesterday at its next meeting on the subject to recommend the rejection of six and the adoption of five amendments. On the other hand, the Committee on Culture and Media yesterday, rejecting the motion to reject this law, maintained its recommendation and proposed that the High Sejm adopt a bill on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u10	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1407. In an additional report, the Commission makes a proposal to reject the draft law and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 174 - for, 232 - against, 37 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose that a candidate for the Council for Reconstruction should submit inter alia. Marshal of the Seym. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in an appropriate amendment to the Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 257 - for, 189 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 178 - for, 259 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and the addition of paragraph 4. 5 and 6 applicants propose, inter alia, that the member of the supervisory board of the special purpose company should not be remunerated for participating in its work. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 189 - for, 258 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 10 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 209 - for, 228 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete point 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 206 - for, 230 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 12. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I'm waiting. It's working, it's working. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't work? Does it work? It's not working. Check it out. Does it work? Member, is it working? [[Voice from the hall: No masks sitting, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: They sit without masks.]] Is it working, Member? Yes? [[That's where I voted.]] 448 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 17 applicants propose that prior to submitting the application referred to in that provision, the special purpose company should apply for the arrangements. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 20. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 215-- for, 231-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member reports to me that there are Members without masks. There are now, ladies and gentlemen, eight Members who have medical certificates. The others, ladies and gentlemen - remind you - I will ask you to put on your masks. That's what I'm asking for right now. If not, please leave the room. [[What is this...]] [[Voice from the room: But we don't know if...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to read the names of the Members of the Parliament. [[Voice from the room: Siarkowska.]] Excuse me, but I'm not doing this. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But I see which one of those who have such a certificate is. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] He's got a medical certificate. [[The voice from the hall: But yesterday there was so much... Today there are already eight.]] Members with medical certificates come from your clubs as well. Member, you do, so... In the 9th amendment to the article. 28 The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 36. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 180 for, uh, 239 for, uh, 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 51. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 446 was for, no one was against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1407, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 234 - for, against - 173, 35 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1375-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, contained in print No 1375-A. On yesterday's day, the committee considered six amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends that the High House reject all three amendments. In addition, I inform the High House that amendments 3 and 5 must be voted together, as well as amendments 4 and 6. I would also like to inform the High House that three of the four amendments tabled by the Civic Coalition, namely Amendments 2, 3 and 5, were considered defective by the Legislative Office to such an extent that even their vote by the High Chamber would not have any legal effect. I think it's intriguing, or perhaps even significant, that the formation, which is constantly teaching us, which is still applying for a vote of distrust towards ministers... [[This is a report from the committee meeting, not your comments.]] ...can't formulate even a simple amendment correctly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u12	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1375. The Commission is also presenting amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 containing amendments to the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. In the first amendment to Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1a point 2 of the amended law propose that the name of the applied science Academy may be used by a professional university in which, among other things, a university may be established. the number of students in education is at least 500, of which at least 200 students are in fixed education. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 216 - for, against - 232, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 16 of the amended law propose amendments to the amended paragraphs. Five, eight, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, five, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 216 - for, 231 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 53 of the amended law, the applicant shall propose amendments to paragraph 1. Point 4 (2) and repeal. 5. This amendment is linked to the 5th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 215 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. Do not add your mouth to 209. 1a. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 219 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, in print No. 1375, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 238 - for, 47 - against, with 161 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1364. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1364, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a bill amending the Maritime Labour Act. We return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1309. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1309, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 445 was for, against - 1, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the Senate draft law amending the Law on the Court of State. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 993. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 993, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 444 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Court of State. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1390-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Agnieszka Soin to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u13	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the meeting of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission, a second reading of the government's draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information was held. The Commission discussed the bill. Six amendments were tabled. One amendment was accepted during the vote. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt, together with an amendment to the Open Data Act and the re-use of public sector information, prints 1338 and 1390-A. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u14	Thank you, Member. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1390. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 of the draft law, the applicants propose a new wording of point 12. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 207 for, 239 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 85 for, 239 against, 120 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 80 for, against - 365, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. Delete point 7 in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4th draft bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the futility of Amendment 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 206 - for, 233 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. amend the wording of point 7 in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4th draft bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 207 - for, 232 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 22 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 90 for, against - 231, 126 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1390 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, 9 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on open data and the re-use of public sector information. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1411. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1411 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Investment Funds Act and managing alternative investment funds and certain other laws. We would like to return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government's draft Law on Aid and Loan Funds. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1412-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled during the second reading of the Government's proposal for a law on relief and loan registers. The Joint Committees: Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Policy have considered these amendments and recommend adopting the 1st amendment, which refers to the exclusion from enforcement of the assistance-lending fund, and recommend rejecting the 2nd amendment and adopting the entire bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u16	Thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1412. The committees also present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. Article 53a and Article 53a 53b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 444 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 58a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 36 - for, against - 354, 48 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1412, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 443 was for, no one was against, no one stopped. The Sejm has passed a law on welfare and loan funds. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1413-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema, print No. 1340. At its meeting on 21 July 2021, the Sejm re-directed draft Print Act No 1340 to the Committee on Culture and Media to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission met on 22 July 2021, examined four amendments and recommended amendments 1, 2 and 4 to the High Sejm and accepted amendment 3. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u18	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1413. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Radio and Television. In the first amendment to Article. 14a and Article 14a 47c applicants propose not to add paragraph. 1b and 1c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 16a applicants propose not to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 80 - for, 243 - against, 120 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 16a applicants propose not to add paragraph. 6a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 209 - for, 230 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 7 (3) of the proposal for applicants to add words and programmes for children after the words "consumers'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 84 for, 229 against, 131 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1413, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 434 was in favor, 7 against, holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020 together with the analysis presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy objectives in 2020 and the Commission's draft resolution on discharge. The additional report of the committee is in print No 1392-A. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments with almost identical content were tabled to the draft resolution at the time of the second reading, not to adopt the report on the implementation of the budget for 2020 and not to grant discharge to the Council of Ministers. Both amendments by the Committee on Public Finance recommend that we reject and recommend that we adopt a draft resolution in which we adopt a report on the implementation of the budget and grant discharge to the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u20	Thank you, sir. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1392. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, the applicants propose that the Sejm reject the report and not grant discharge to the Council of Ministers. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and the non- objectivity of the other proposals. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, and thus in favour of adopting the resolution proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose that the Sejm should not accept the report and not grant discharge to the Council of Ministers. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and in the non- objectivity of the committee's proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd amendment and, therefore, in favour of adopting a resolution as proposed by the applicants, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 211 - for, 234 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the committee's proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers in print No 1392, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 234 - for, 213 - against, 3 stopped. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1415-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a second reading of the project was held, in which 35 amendments were tabled. The Joint Commissions: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and Economy and Development considered these 35 amendments tabled at second reading to the government draft law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land. This is print 1394 and the reports of the joint committees are prints 1415 and 1415-A. The joint committees recommend that the High House reject the proposal to reject the bill and reject all amendments, with amendments 7, 15, 24, 26, 29, 34 and 35. Of course, the joint committees recommend adopting the bill contained in their report. High Izbo! The project concerns 25 plots located in Stalowa Wola, with a total area of 996 ha, and 55 plots located in Jaworzno, with an area of 264 ha. Together it is 1260 ha, i.e. 0,017 they promoted land managed by the State Forests. The project includes solutions that allow for temporary conversion of forests, land and other properties of the State Treasury remaining on the Management Board of State Forests State Forests, as I said, in Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola and forests, land and other properties of the State Treasury adjacent to them to other forests, land or real estate on which it is possible to conduct forest management. The Act is intended to support such a change because, in the current legal state, it is not possible to establish the location of such investments, taking into account all the surface, spatial, infrastructure, communication and environmental conditions that need to be met in such projects. And these investments will certainly result in tax revenues to the state budget, the implementation of new technologies and economic development, especially in these areas. On 14 July the Council of Stalowa Wola adopted a resolution encouraging the High House to support this law. Thank you, Member. And all the amendments that have been tabled or are the result of adoption not fully adequate to the content of the bill of amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau... In the legal opinion of 20 July we have, so to speak, a clear statement that a law should be adopted, and in the opinion dated a day later we have raised some doubts which are not justified in the wording of the law. Thank you very much, Member. [[There's 11 minutes left, you're welcome.]] Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I urge the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u22	The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1415. The Commission also makes a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments on which we will vote first. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, against - 241, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a new title to the bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Hers. adoption will mean that the 2nd amendment is not relevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 202 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to give a new title to the bill. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 199 - for, 244 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 paragraph 1 applicants propose amendments to the calculation. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 201 - for, 240 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 paragraph 1 applicants propose amendments to point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 183 - for, 243 - against, 20 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 1 paragraph Article 2 and Article 2 2 (2) 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 6, 7, 15. 24, 26., 29., 34. and 35. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 211 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 1 paragraph 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 1. 3. Amendments 15, 24, 26, 29, 34 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments from 8 to 10, from 16 to 18, 22, 23, 32 and 33. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 7, 15, 24, 26, 29, 34 and 35 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 210 - for, 235 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 1. 3. The committees are filing for rejection. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 9 and 10. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 208 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 3 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will make the 10th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 209 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 3. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 207 - for, 234 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 2 (2) 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 209 - for, 237 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicant shall propose amendments to Article. 2 (2) 1. The committees are filing for rejection. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 13 and 14. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 200 for, 245 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 2 (2) 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 202 - for, 235 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 2 (2) 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 206 - for, 235 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. Three, four, five and eight. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 17 and 18. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 206 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 2 (2) 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 203 - for, 234 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 4 and 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 201 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 6 applicants propose amendments to the calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 208 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 2 (2) 7 and amendments to Article 7 Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 210 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 203 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. 1. The committees are filing for rejection. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 23 and 25. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 199 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 201 - for, 234 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 201 - for, 241 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 210 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 210 - for, 235 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose to add a joint part in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 30th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 201 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 31st amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 182 - for, 263 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, the applicants propose to delete paragraph. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobjectability of the 33rd amendment. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 32nd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 202 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 6. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 33rd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 200 - for, 244 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is to adopt in full the draft law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land, in print No 1415, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 241 - for, 202 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on special solutions related to the special use of forest land. [[Applause]] We return to the review of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1406-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act, print No 1393. One amendment was tabled during the second reading. The Commission considered the amendment tabled yesterday and recommends that the High House reject this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u24	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1406. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 25x. Point 2 (1) of the Railway Transport Act proposes to add point. k and l. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 74 for, 239 against, 132 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1406, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 433 - for, 5 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Rail Transport Act. We would like to refer to items 18 and 19 of the agenda: In view of the proposal to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolutions, objections were raised. I will then put to the vote proposals to proceed immediately to the second reading of both draft resolutions. We proceed to the vote on the immediate accession to the second reading of the draft resolution from print no. 1396. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the application for accession immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution from print No 1396, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 234 - for, against - 213, no one held back. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the vote on the immediate accession to the second reading of the draft resolution from print no. 1397. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the application for accession immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution from print No 1397, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 - for, 216 - against, no one held back. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the second reading of both draft resolutions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolutions? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes.]] Members have come forward... [[Voice from the Chamber: We all want to speak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Wait a minute, okay? Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Order in the courtroom, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Civic Coalition Club... Member, just a second. Who of you does not wish to participate in the discussion may leave the room. Allow the honourable Member to speak. Excuse me? What's going on? You're welcome, my fellow Member. I'll wait for you to... [[Don't wait up. Just...]] Member, please. You can speak now. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club is unable to accept the reports of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council. We can't authorize it. [[Applause]] the functioning of institutions that operate outside the order of law, which break the constitution, which lead to the destruction of the media market in Poland, which fight against freedom of speech, instead of taking care of this freedom of speech. Both of these institutions deserve condemnation, not praise. [[Applause]] The National Media Council is a kind of HR display for a ruling coalition that lists presidents, boards of public media companies, lists supervisory boards. We don't know what criteria he's doing it by. We don't know what the procedure is. It's just that one time it's like this, one time it's different. He usually lists the bad guys with the worse guys. The National Radio and Television Council in 2020 by failing to act has led to the crisis that we are currently witnessing. This failure to look at the request for the concession of TVN24 has led to a crisis, including international crisis. 60 days before the deadline, the station, which celebrates the twentieth anniversary, which is embedded in the landscape of Polish media, does not know whether it will broadcast in Poland or not. It's just a scandal. Among the many omissions of the national counsel, its errors and sins, this is the most serious. Let me put it this way: the national council is to uphold the freedom of speech, the right to information and the interest of public radio and television. He's in charge of the freedom of speech of haters and public television propagandists. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It protects the right to lying information distributed by members of the government, [[Applause]] protects the private interests of the government's officials who use public money and public institutions for these interests. [[Applause]] We are making amendments to reject both reports. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u26	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: No Vaseline.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u27	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the reporting period, the National Media Council held 14 meetings. The Council adopted a work plan at its meeting on 8 January 2020. During the reporting period, the Council adopted 33 resolutions. Her control powers resulting from the provisions of the Act on the National Media Council, the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on the Polish Press Agency have been used on an ongoing basis. The Management Boards of Public Radio and Television Companies shall periodically submit to the Council the documents set out in the Act which serve members of the Board to assess the activities of public radio and television companies' bodies and the State Press Agency SA. The work undertaken in 2020 by the National Radio and Television Council was carried out on the basis of the objectives adopted in the regulatory strategy of the National Radio and Television Council for the years 2017 and 202022 and the orientations set in the task budget of the National Radio and Television Council, approved by the parliamentary procedure. The National Radio and Television Council participated, among others. in legislative work, work on the introduction of digital radio and television in Poland, the establishment of programming and financial plans and payment cards for public broadcasters, the distribution of revenues from subscription and compensation, the organisation of research and content of the reception of media services and the implementation of the Polish Telemetry project consisting of the launch of a single source measurement of electronic media consumption. An important event not only organisationally, but also from the point of view of the performance of public tasks, was the appointment by the founding body of the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of the institutions of the budgetary economy called the National Media Institute as from 31 December 2020. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the position expressed by the Committee on Culture and Media and welcomes the actions taken by the National Radio and Television Council as well as the National Media Council. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Council's report for last year, prints 1245 and 1396 and 1242 and 1397. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u28	Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These prints summarise the events of the year 2020. The reasons for not accepting reports from both the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council are too much, but let me focus on three reasons for my short time. The first reason is that the presidential elections, which were, after all, the main event of the past year, were not addressed. The National Radio and Television Council in its report focused only on two main, as it turned out, candidates, leaving out its completely disgraceful role in marginalising and discriminate against all others, starting with Mr Biedron and ending with Mr Bosaku. This is a sufficient reason why it is worth not only leaning on this report but also rejecting it. The second reason that has already been mentioned here is the scandalous extension of the time allowed to grant concessions to certain cable-satellite televisions. I mean, especially TVN24. This is gross negligence and infringement, especially if we know that in similar cases the concession process lasts only a month. In the case of one broadcaster, the concession is granted within one month, for the other 1,5 years it is not enough. And that is another reason why the report of the National Radio and Television Council does not deserve a positive examination. The third reason, in our opinion, is that this time the report does not deserve a positive examination of the National Media Council, is the selection - because it is not a choice - of the members of the Programme Councils in this part, which is intended for social organizations. The recognition of the majority of the National Media Council gained only nominations submitted by the Church, the Association of Polish Journalists and the Solidarity. Most candidates submitted by other environments, representing a different type of sensitivity have been omitted or ignored. This is clear evidence of the bias of public media authorities and even their programming councils. The question is, how long can this go on? After all, this situation concerning both programme councils, licensing of programmes, and marginalising candidates other than the main candidates in the presidential election, but probably also in other elections (the bell), affects the political situation, the system in which elections may be free, but they are certainly dishonest. That is why we will vote against these reports. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u30	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As a representative of the Coalition Poland Club at the very beginning, I will also confirm that we will vote against these reports. My previous speakers have already told us about scandalous procedures, about time. I will not repeat this, ladies and gentlemen, but I will refer to the National Media Council, which was once called, and actually is called, ladies and gentlemen, only to appeal and appoint members of the supervisory boards, the directors of radio, television, the Polish Press Agency. The members of this council worked very hard last year because in their report they wrote that they met 14 times, from the paper version it appears that 12 times, and in the period until July they practically met only four times, while for a few months they took money, ladies and gentlemen, for readiness. That's the truth. And as you know, you have passed this law yourself, which is the one-time average wage in the economy, which is over 5.5,000. zł. But to make it even more interesting, this advice cost us over a million zlotys. 1058,000, to be exact. PLN cost the functioning of the National Media Council, which last year, ladies and gentlemen, adopted 33 resolutions. Well, there was no big job, but for that kind of money, I think, it was worth it. Today I must make it clear that the National Media Council is directly responsible for who sits on the boards and supervisory boards of public media. Ladies and gentlemen! Falling audience and ratings, falling revenue from advertising, this is among others. the faults of the National Media Council. Therefore, apart from the fact that we will be opposed, we are in favour of restoring the proper function of the National Radio and Television Council, because it is she who should be doing this from the very beginning, and not some creation that is typically facaded, and in fact it is only and exclusively, as I said, to invoke and recall the members of these councils. Ladies and gentlemen, you are very good at pronouncing the word "constitution," which is why we are in favour of returning to the Constitution, so that the National Council of Radio and Television can uphold the freedom of law and restore its proper function. That is why our club will vote against these reports. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u32	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The speech is de facto about the role of public media. When we talk about the role of public media, I ask where they are today, when the Lithuanian government sends the police to pacify the Polish village, when the Lithuanian government sends it to pacify the Polish village where 500 Poles live - the Virgins in Vilnius - only because these Poles protest against settling in their village, between one school and the other, thousands of Islamic immigrants. I ask where is public television, where are public media, where is also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland on this matter. Poland must respond decisively to the persecution of its compatriots in Vilnius. 30 years of persecution of Poles in Lithuania - since the dispersal of our self-governments, our own in the sense of compatriots, Polish self-governments in the beginning of the 1990s nothing changes despite the supposedly thriving Polish-Lithuanian relations. And today only independent media alarms that there will actually be annihilation of another Polish village, because this is the goal of subsequent Lithuanian governments - the nationalization of Poles of Vilnius. A thousand Islamic immigrants in a 500-person village. We demand a firm response from the Polish government to these disgraceful actions of the Lithuanian party. We demand that the Republic of Poland claim its compatriots in Vilnius. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u34	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Two reports from two bodies - one of which was denied constitutional competence and forwarded to the other. Luckily, the report of the National Council for Radiophony and Television concluded a position recognising the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016, which clearly indicates the need to restore the Board of Powers to appoint and dismiss members of public media companies. The Ombudsman has asked Minister Gliński several times, he has sent a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki asking for action to amend the rules in force, as indicated in the judgment of the Court, but silence. Although it was promised, Minister Gliński, by the end of 2018, the amendment remains unenforced by the Sejm and the Senate. For 17 months, members of the National Radio and Television Council shall examine the application for the extension of the concession to broadcast TVN programmes. So they don't care about the interests of the broadcasters or the recipients, they care about the politicians. The board members are incompetent. And for the second year in a row, a document from the activities of the National Media Council is submitted to the Sejm, which is not any information but merely a set of decisions. Mrs. Marshal! The Bureau of the Sejm should require a document in accordance with the provisions of the Act. We learn far more from the writing of one of the members of the council of Julius Braun. It is his vote of separatum that shows that there is no cooperation between the members of the council elected by the majority of the Sejm and those elected by the President. Let me just remind you: for four months last year, as a result of the resignation of Grzegorz Podżorny, the National Media Council was part-member. Grzegorz Igorny explained his resignation with chaos and current party needs. In addition, it shall appoint members of public media bodies in the Council of National Media without open competitions. The decision to revoke the President of the Polish Television was announced by the President of the Council before the end of the vote at a special conference with the participation of the President and the Prime Minister. All requests submitted by the members of the board are also rejected, so the current President of the Polish Radio has not been allowed to review the application for appeal. And the latest results show how the listening of all public radio programs is falling. Therefore, your marshal, once again, I call for a different report from the National Media Council. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will of course not support either report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u36	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft resolution in print No 1396 and the draft resolution in print No 1397 of the amendment were submitted, I propose that the Sejm refer these drafts to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report on the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] There's an objection, right? [[There's no objection.]] There isn't? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Good. Thank you. [[We withdraw the objection.]] I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution of the 1980s. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1416. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1416 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm waiting for you to get back to the O.R. I'm waiting. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] 438 Members voted. 432 - for, no one was against, held back 6. The Sejm adopted a resolution on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution on the 40th anniversary of hunger marches. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Power Market Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 1423 and 1425). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets at its meeting yesterday gave a positive opinion on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the power market law and on certain other laws in print No 1423 and welcomed all amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u38	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. Amendments 1 to 8. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Power Market Act. In the first amendment to Article. 12 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 12. 4. This amendment will be voted on together with amendments 2 to 6, 8 and 9. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 6, 8 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 10 for, against - 437, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 7th amendment to the article. 77 The Senate proposes a legislative amendment to the added paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 1 for, against - 439, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law amending the power market law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation (Print No 1426). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for the selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. Please, Member. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u39	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When setting up a deregulation committee, the PiS didn't even have its majority with appetizers. I asked you from the opposition not to help with your abstentions, but unfortunately it did. Why do I think you shouldn't help? Despite Mr Wróblewski's best intentions, this committee can simply become a law grinder to pass by normal committees. We, the circles, have been told that we have no parity there and that not even one person from us can participate there. And today - open yourselves a print - there is a non-member in this committee. That's how the PiS keeps the deal. I'm asking you today, now, in this courtroom, not to put your hand in it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u40	Madam President, the lady you are talking about, Mrs Announced, her presence is based on a parity that belongs to the club Law and Justice, and is not an additional one. [[Applause]] The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 1426, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 395 - for, against - 26, 15 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation. I'm calling on the basis of an article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, first meeting of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation in Room 102. Maciej Rataj in the C-D building 15 minutes after the vote. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1427). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would anyone like to take the floor on this? No. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1427, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 421 - for, against was no one, 20 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 42 hours 10 min 51]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws (prints Nos 1129 and 1424). I would very much like to ask Mr Matusiak to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's Energy, Climate and... Mr President, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, hello, hello! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I have a favor to ask. Those people who wish to leave the room, I ask you very warmly. I would also ask that we listen to him while he is presenting his position. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, hello! Friends from the PiS, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They're not bothering me either. They're bothering me. They're bothering me. We are glad that there is a very nice baby, very congratulations, but if we watch the baby outside the Seym room, it will be just as beautiful. Government benches, please. Okay, sir, you have the right to say things that are wise and fascinating. Thank you very much. Several amendments were tabled at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. The three amendments were rejected, one was rejected, the other were accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u42	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first person is Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr President, the speaker is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a report from yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the examination of a government draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws, prints No 1129 and 1173. Three amendments were tabled at a committee meeting on behalf of the PiS club, which consisted in restoring the wording of the draft law in print No 1129, and two government proposals to amend the time limits for the entry into force of the law. All proposals submitted were accepted by the committee. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this bill and will vote in favour of it. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply for the third reading of the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, prints Nos 1129, 1173 and 1424, without reference to the committee of amendments and proposals submitted to this draft law and after service to its Members. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u45	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Print No. 1129 evolving to print No. 1424 is a work process that lasted and relied on the government to propose some amendments, and then came to the committee's meeting and moved on to the second reading, we accepted it at second reading, and suddenly it turned out that it needed to be improved, because the government came to the conclusion that, however, what he had tabled as amendments was not good and that it was necessary to withdraw to the original version. There hasn't been anything like that before. Justification of amendments: amendments boils down to restoring the wording of the draft law contained in print No 1129. In addition, one of these amendments was made by the legislators... It was said to be against the rules and had to be withdrawn as well. It's a mess, it's a mess in lawmaking. It follows that the government has a problem with renewable energy sources and so goes with these renewable energy sources, throws some proposals and then withdraws, takes a step forward, takes a step backwards. At this meeting we were also going to proceed on printing No 1382 about prosumerism and we were going to talk about the system of wasteland, and we know very well that the government is currently working on a completely different solution, on the so-called. net billing where there will be no drain system. At the same time, in this law, which we are talking about at the moment, the government extends the system of waste until 2045. It is happening - with directional good action, because this Act from prints 1129 and 1424 is in the right direction, and we support this direction, because it limits the concession obligations for businesses operating in the field of small installations by increasing the threshold of total installed electrical or thermal capacity in the combination of RES installations defined as small installations. The capacity of these small installations increases from 500 kW to 1 MW and the maximum heat output in combination is from 900 kW to 3 MW. Okay, this is the right direction. However, we are concerned about such information as is coming to us, that is, in the draft law, that the companies of the State Treasury will be able to get the land under the ground in a non-interruptible manner from KOWR to install certain installations. It's disturbing. We will want to look at this in the Senate and propose some other solutions, because all legal entities should have the same opportunities. The project envisages introducing a number of mechanisms by 2045. It extends the discharge mechanism within the Prosumer system, although - as I said just now - this will probably change. It also extends the obligation to purchase unused electricity by micro-installations of RES operating outside the Prosumer scheme, the obligation to purchase unused electricity at a fixed price or the right to surcharge the market price of electricity under the feed-in tariff system, the obligation to purchase electricity at a fixed price or the right to surcharge the market price of electricity under the auction system. According to this draft auction will be extended until 2026. Interesting is the situation of hybrid installations. We talk about these hybrid installations, we talk about energy storage, and this is one of the key issues that we need to address when we talk about distributed energy. In the case of hybrid installation, it is said that 5% the energy from the warehouse should be put into the network within a year, otherwise there will be no assistance if it is auction. According to the regulations introduced, all installations above 500 kW will have to be included in the spatial planning plans, except that photovoltaic installations on roofs will not be included. As I understand it is also prepared, adapted to these solutions with a virtual prosumer. We are in direct support of this law and are in favour of all actions that maximise renewable energy sources (the Bell), but remembering that we are calling for a clear strategy on renewable energy sources. The idea is to make it related: on the one hand - renewable energy sources and on the other - a security system that ensures the security of the entire energy system, including energy, conventional or nuclear, which will safeguard RES sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're going over this print for the second time. It was read in this plenary room 2 months ago. As a Left, we were talking about the need for RES, that RES is a Polish state rhyme. With regard to the way in which legislation on renewable energy sources and energy are being carried out, I must say that they have a different principle: chaos, chaos and chaos again. We have been discussing projects many times, amendments are being withdrawn, amendments have to be made to the same law again. The chairman of the committee is talking about the fact that we are focusing on only one thing, while in the committee we are voting on completely different issues concerning the wide range of issues contained in the RES Act. The government does not deal completely with energy in Poland, completely. What is happening in this topic is probably the accident of very different positions broken in this area, an inconsistent right-wing coalition, which on the one hand talks about the need to maintain coal energy - these voices are very strong, very strong - and on the other hand claims that it is the RES that is needed. We are therefore in such a situation that we are chaotic, very fast, inaccurate about all the projects, and there are parliamentary projects in committee on issues that will later appear in government projects. You can also look at wind energy from the same perspective. The government document, which the government so often refers to, speaks of the need to increase energy from wind power plants. Meanwhile, there is still a law that has completely destroyed wind energy on land. We are not prosecuting laws, and I have submitted a parliamentary proposal on this issue to change the law on wind energy on land. Unfortunately, we do not look at this, as we do on other draft parliamentary laws, in the Parliamentary Committee, and at the same time in government documents it is clear that this energy industry in Poland should develop. There is no comprehensive policy in this respect. It is lost by people who want to invest in renewable energy sources or as individual prosumers or as collective prosumers. They are waiting for these solutions, but these good solutions are not really there. We're gonna take some rules, and we're gonna change them in a minute. Energy cooperatives. There is a law on energy cooperatives. How many energy cooperatives are there in Poland? One energy cooperative. This is a law that is dead, which does not work and which is contrary to the social interest, contrary to climate protection, as well as against individual renewable energy producers, which is the cheapest source of energy that exists. Let me remind you that we have to pay for raw materials for any other energy source, because we just have to pay for it, but for the sunlight, we don't have to pay for the wind. It just is. So let us use this for the benefit of future generations, for the sake of the climate, for the sake of Poland. Let us not bring about total legislative chaos when it comes to these matters. This is good, obviously. Fortunately, we are in the European Union, fortunately we need to adapt, get on this train - not full of carts with coal, but pulling us towards renewable energy. However, the way we do it is just like driving a horse cart, and so we deliver renewable energy projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Unfortunately, the Member is the last in order. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u49	It's a mess because I was on the committee. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are performing again, there is another amendment, for the second time reading of the draft Act on Renewable Energy Sources. This shows how coordination is lacking and how the tensions must be with the government, about the club, because a number of solutions that are proposed in the next three laws... We already have three laws: the law that we are looking at today, the law that is at the stage of public consultation, and the bill that has been examined at the committee meeting this week. They are divergent, even opposite. Today, we have a serious situation with regard to renewable energy, which requires decisive action. Such measures should be coordinated and should contribute to a good, dynamic development of renewable energy production. This must all be thought out, it can't be chaotic, it can't be on the principle that some people are gonna block, others are gonna rip the cake apart, because that way we're not gonna get anywhere. We have a great deal of catching up to do and we need it definitely. I would like to remind you that we are still uphill in terms of renewable energy. Previously, windmills were blocked, and at the moment we want to build twice as expensive windmills at sea when the prosumer energy started to develop dynamically, so we had to do something about it, so there are proposals to block it. Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition has tabled amendments. I have already tabled these amendments at second reading before 2 months, but the strange procedure makes me have to report them again. I will make these amendments briefly. I don't have much time, but... The first amendment is aimed at increasing the power of the micro-installation to 150 kW. At the moment we have 50 kW of installed power. We want it to be 150, because this is an average level that I think is acceptable, and if we want to accelerate investment in this form of electricity generation, we should do so. This is obviously about micro-installations. Another thing that we want to change and we propose an amendment is the reduction of the waste that is being applied today to the prosumer - 0,8. and 0,7 to 10 kW of installed power. We've got 0.8. to 1, and above, from 10 to 50 - because at the moment it's 50 kW - it's 0.7. We want it to be 0.9 to 1, which is to reduce the output level and that this indicator covers the entire range, which is up to 150 kW, because 10 kW is a very low level. Today, households with heat pumps, with electric heating, need much more energy and want to produce it, so there is no need to artificially introduce such a limit here because it is logically unjustified, because most of the energy will be consumed. Another thing in the second amendment is to pay prosumers for energy, which even taking into account (the bell) will not recover, will not use, and will be overproduction - to pay at the price in force during the settlement period. It would be clear, clear and legible if someone produces and is unable to use energy to pay them, because the state must bear comparable costs, as we are talking about here, and if the prosumer produces this energy, then it must be paid, because it somehow helps you. And one more thing to explain, because all the time in this narrative... Mr President, we have to move a little bit towards the end, because you already have a minute longer. Yes. I'll say one more thing. Today the level of energy production by prosumers in microinstallations is about 1% energy globally in Poland. So how can this energy affect the energy system? Because that's the narrative to limit it more so that, as I say, it was consumed by prosumers, because 1% disrupts the entire power grid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The lack of a clear and stable energy ministry strategy on the development of renewable energy sources is, in fact, the greatest threat to the energy transition, in general, to this path. Sometimes I feel that in the Ministry there is a coal lobby with people who realize that energy transformation is our Polish state rhyme, and depending on who has more votes at the moment, the project pushes it. As a result, the Sejm is affected by divergent and sometimes even contradictory projects, which cause eternal turmoil in these projects, their change, reversal, withdrawal, etc. Here it is very similar, in the final phase there was an acceleration, after a very long time of the project was frozen in the committee. The amendment is in fact a support for energy-producing entities in small RES installations, among others. limits the concession obligations and extends the duration of support, including financial support, under the Prosumer System and other RES micro-installations. It was also possible to obtain operating aid for an additional 2 years for small water power plants and biogas plants with a capacity not exceeding 1 MW which have benefited from a green certificate scheme for a minimum of 5 years. As a result, the maximum support period for these installations was extended from 15 to 17 years. But there's an art. 2, which allows the National Agricultural Support Centre to lease land to capital companies operating in the electricity, oil and gas sectors, supervised by the Minister for State Assets and investing RES, without a tender. To be honest, when I look at this article, I see that such access to these land limits competitiveness, favours state capital. And that is harmful from the point of view of the development of the RES sector at all. Because on the one hand, it's cool, maybe at lower prices, that land could be passed on to energy companies that will produce installations in renewable energy sources there, but on the other hand, limiting competitiveness, especially in this industry, for many years we have not been able to move forward. Unlimited competitiveness, Minister, is also extremely important. That's why we're gonna have to deal with this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are, of course, in favour of these solutions, because they are very good in many areas, but we will still be considering this article. Two in the Senate. And really think, Minister, how to do this so as not to restrict this competitiveness. I think this is really very important, very important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u52	Thank you very much. [[You don't have a senator.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We will make amendments and propose solutions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. There are nine people asking questions. We begin one at a time, according to the order of applications. I'm setting 1 minute for the question. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From the very beginning, from the moment this bill appeared, I ask you why the Treasury companies have such a privilege. They have the privilege of receiving land support free of charge from the National Center for Agricultural Support... without trade, not free of charge. Why does this apply only to companies of the Treasury? If we are moving towards the development of renewable energy, then why are only these privileges going in this direction? And second question. That's not all. Not only do you limit the freedom of business because you even limit my current program, but in version 0.3 or 3.0 you already completely limit the funding, change the rules, limit the financial envelope to my current. In the same way, in version 2.0 (The Bell), you reduced resources - because people submitted applications and more than 200,000. applications did not receive support - out of 5 000. Up to 3,000. When are you going to finish and implement a specific program, a specific bill that will close the discussion on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You are a hostage, a hostage of Polish energy networks, because - as we read in all the justifications concerning renewable energy sources, distributed energy - you have a resistance to the fact that you think primarily of centrally managed energy, large units, and distributed energy, I have the impression, is considered a necessary evil. But for this evil we will have to get used to from the perspective of this government. And you will have to answer the basic question, please ask a directional answer: What are we going to do with low, medium voltage networks, so that distributed energy can be regarded as a prosumer energy that does not endanger the stability of the system, but rather gives (the bell) this energy system, which is necessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u57	Thank you very kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to ask you about prosumer energy. Minister, I'm going to run a little away from the subject of the bill, but I think this is an important area in which Poles expect a declaration. Well, in the program, my current, which predicted for this year a little more than PLN 0.5 billion for the financing of photovoltaic installations, after 22 days there was just a little more than PLN 27 million. This shows that this fund and the possibility of obtaining grants are very successful, but also means that by the end of August at the latest, and I think much sooner, it will simply run out of funds. Minister! I would like to ask whether the government is considering extending this financial envelope because these installations certainly help our energy system to adapt to these conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, it allows to release the energy of Poles, release the energy that is stored in our small homes, installations that can function through it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I wanted to ask you about the regulation of wind energy on land. It is not only a blockade of the production of new installations, but above all a blockade of the development of many localities, which are currently less than 10 hectares away from the mast of the wind power plant. This is difficult to explain to local authorities, which do not give consent e.g. for the construction of new houses, because it is located in a smaller distance, and at the same time in the local plan or other plans, these areas were intended for investments in farms or housing investments. The second is a matter of prosumer energy. Currently, there is a tendency to create large photovoltaic farms. This, of course, also excludes areas from agricultural production, and this is, I would say, scattered locations that ruin absolutely what we call spatial governance and efficient use. On the other hand (The Bell) in many countries is e.g. an institution of agrofovoltaics, i.e. dual use, both agricultural and energy. And I think let's go in that direction so that we don't lose it from the agricultural land stock. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u61	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! When are we finally going to start taking people seriously in this parliament? We stopped taking them seriously when it comes to wind energy, but today state companies are building wind farms based on old permits. Now we're going to fool them once again when it comes to prosumer energy. It's time for us to make it clear how many and how many of these installations we want to do, let's say, people, with what support and until when. You can't do it like you do today. We're hostages today of the inefficient transmission networks. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe it's time to do it so that this distributed energy can grow. People want to do this because you're raising the price of electricity every now and then. Really energy is distributed is good, it is security for the energy system, it must not be combated. But above all, the state must be predictable and stable, and this is unfortunately long gone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u63	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there are many energy problems, but energy networks are also a very important issue. Poland is still very weak when it comes to low or medium voltage networks, also high. After all, it is enough to look at: any cataclysm, storm, sometimes heavier winter, and in fact many thousands of inhabitants are deprived of electricity. Often there is also no chance in good locations to connect to the network, because such networks nearby simply do not exist. There is also no suitable possibility to make connections. Therefore, I would like to post for this, and I have this question: Are there also plans in the Ministry to expand the networks to be where to connect these large or smaller farms or smaller farms? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u65	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the regulations will allow the lease of land for renewable energy sources from the Treasury resources, from KOWR, through companies of the State Treasury. Another place to fatten other fat cats, and at the same time KOWR uses the right to buy the land which Polish farmers want to buy for the development of Polish farms. I've had so many requests for intervention from the Podlaskie voivodship, where KOWR buys these lands, and farmers can't grow. You disable the best soil class under the planned CPK, another land excluded from agricultural production, especially in voivodships, where there is a great hunger for land, where there is no possibility to lease it, you do another limitation. This is not acceptable because it limits Polish agriculture (the bell) and Polish farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Does the government believe that prosumer is a man who is not smart enough to invest his own money to produce excess energy only for the purpose of giving it free of charge to the distributor and then buy it back for 20% or 30% over a period of up to 12 months. market price? Is the aim of renewable energy production to generate profits for distribution companies from private investments of our country's citizens? Does the legislator really believe that the 15-year repayment period will encourage private investors to build photovoltaic installations? And the basic question: How must the costs of state-owned companies be broken down, that the 30% margin on trade in goods entrusted to them is non-profitable and generates losses? If I could ask for an answer to my doubts and doubts of my constituents (the bell), I would be obliged. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u69	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Poles and Poles are smart, investing in power in photovoltaics. They know that the future is renewable energy sources, they know that it is energy security and that it is cheap energy. What are you guys You decided to smash the program with my current. Transza for 2019/2020 was PLN 1155 million, funding one farm - 5 thousand. zł. The budget for 20212023 - 534 million and the financing of one farm - 3 000. zł. You're cutting it down. Why? Why are you suffocating this good show? Why are you taking our money? The question that I have to ask you is: How do you want to achieve the goal that the European Union is giving us? At present, this goal is 33%. RES by 2030 [[♪ The bell ♪]] The European Commission is already talking about increasing this target to 40% and Poland what? In 2019 - a lousy 12%. Shame. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Keep it down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u70	Thank you very much. All these questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environmental Affairs, Minister Ireneusz Oda. [[Applause]] Minister, the matter for the country is very important, but I wanted to tell you that it's up to you to say that I'm gonna put on a folkvoltaics at my place as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your constructive work in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, Seym No 1129. It is a very good, very important law, which, as we have heard, has gathered positive opinions and statements of support for individual representatives of parliamentary clubs and parliamentary circles. The Act has also obtained excellent opinions from working environments dealing with renewable energy sources, distributed energy, including prosumer energy, as well as institutions that are professionally engaged in widely understood energy, mainly from the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, but also from many institutions that could be multiplied. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of the United Right, led by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is pursuing a thoughtful, effective policy in the field of energy development, in a balanced way, also in terms of renewable energy. The development of renewable energy sources is a priority of the government, including the Ministry of Climate and Environment. It is my mission, which I have been fulfilling since January 2020 as a proxy for the appointment of a representative of the RES government. I would like to say that I do not agree with the critical assessments that have been presented both in the statements of the representatives of the clubs and in the questions addressed to me during this bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very strongly how renewable energy, including distributed energy, is developing at this moment in this term of office of the Sejm and also at the end of the last term of the Sejm. This is an unprecedented development in the history of Poland, in the history of the Third Republic. I can first of all recall the installed powers here. When it comes to wind on land, wind energy on land, this is 6.5 GW of installed power when it comes to solar energy Using solar energy, it is already over 5 GW of installed power. To this, we must add, my dear country, the contracted capacity under the RES auction, which has been taking place since 2018. In the wind on land it is 4.5 GW of contracted power including this year's auction, which took place at the turn of May and June this year, while in photovoltaic installations it is 3.3 GW of contracted power. This means that within the next 2.5 years, we will have a maximum of 3 years in the national power system in the wind on land with 11 GW. This is what we want to build in offshore wind energy by 2040. So it is a powerful power that will power the Polish electricity system also in photovoltaics. The forecasts are much better and according to expert reports, which appear year by year in Poland and in Europe, we can have at least 15 GW installed in photovoltaics in the next 4 years - up to 2025. Prosumers are an important element of this energy source, which is solar energy. Prosumers of this, one can say, the most active, most conscious Polish citizens who want to generate electricity for their own household, and also lower electricity bills used for their own household. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when the legal institution of prosumer was established, it was defined, and very rightly, as an entity which is simultaneously a producer and a consumer of energy, but produced for its own use. Therefore, today it is incomprehensible to postulate, to produce energy for sale by prosumers, so that it is an additional source of income for the household. This is pointless, and even harmful, because of the disturbances in the electricity system, especially at the level of low and medium voltages. Here, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, very respected by me, recalled that it was only 1%. energy produced by prosumers in the National Energy System, in the Polish energy mix, while even this 1% locally it can cause huge disruptions in the distribution network. Therefore, we need to make a certain change, above all, on this... Here I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, so that we have one common knowledge, because perhaps your critical voices result from a lack of knowledge at a sufficient level... Forgive me, but I can't explain it otherwise, because the market directive... [[... draft laws from the committee. You have that knowledge.]] Thank you. We as a Member State, like all the Member States of the European Union, have a duty to implement a market directive which requires Member States to separate energy billing from electricity collected from the grid. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the 0:7:1 or 0.8:1 desert model, or - as proposed in the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - 0.9:1 will not be possible since the full implementation of the Market Directive. This is a very important argument for working on a new system, but on the other hand, which is also extremely important, I ask you gentlemen, we want prosumers to be able to develop distributed energy over a long time horizon, in a perspective of ten, a dozen and twenty years. After all, the point is not that within two to three years we will block the power because of the connection conditions and put out this movement, nor that new prosumers, those who want to become them, face a refusal from the seller who is the operator of the electricity distribution network. Ladies and gentlemen, other very important sources of renewable energy generation, such as biogas, biomethane, like small water energy, like biomass - all take a high, important place in the work of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I would like to say that the unprecedented policy of the Minister of Climate and Environment is expressed in the fact that four major partnerships have been established for the development of renewable energy. As regards the partnership for the development of offshore wind energy, in which more than 150 companies from Poland and from around the world, universities, research and development institutes, government administration and local government participate, excellent relations are important here, among others. with Marshals of Voivodships, with Marshal of Pomorskie Voivodship. Here we go, ma'am, to matters of substance which express the economic interest of Poland, without limiting it due to, let's call it, origin or political sympathies, because the development of energy, which is the bloodline of the Polish economy, should be equally close to all. And that's what happens. I would also like to ask the honourable Members and parliamentarians to consult with such institutions as the Polish Wind Energy Association, such as the Polish Wind Energy Society, the Renewable Energy Association and a whole dozens or even hundreds of others with whom we have excellent relations and work together for the good, development of this sector of the Polish economy. We have been creating further partnerships and since last year, for example as part of a partnership for the development of the photovoltaic industry or biogas and biomethane industry, a partnership for the development of the hydrogen economy... Also, the recent initiative, founded in Międzini near Krakow, is also concerned with the development of the heat pump industry, which we believe will play a fundamental role in the transition from individual heating, from individual heating, based on fossil fuels, to renewable energy. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer very briefly to the most important information about this bill. Here some of you have mentioned this issue, but above all it is about extending the auction system and the old feed-in-triff, feed-in-premium - until 31 December 2027. Another important thing is the abolition of concession obligations. It will not be necessary to enter and obtain concessions from the President of the Energy Regulatory Office in the case of a small photovoltaic installation with a capacity of up to 500 kW, but it will be necessary to do so in the case of installations with a capacity of up to 1 MW. This will also relieve the Energy Regulatory Office, relieve it of the long-term procedure for issuing these concessions. As she has rightly pointed out here - I am very pleased that these positive changes are also well assessed by you - Mrs Hennig-Kloska, we have extended the support time for small hydropower plants to 17 years, which is two years longer. In parallel, we are working on notifying the European Commission's rules, increasing the opportunities to support the development of these important installations, which increase the level of energy security at local level. This is also, ladies and gentlemen, a facilitation of spatial planning. It will not be necessary to establish in the spatial planning plan or in the development study the obligation to enter RES installations in general regardless of technology up to 500 kW, while up to 1 MW such PV installations will be released on class V and VI land and wasteland. In turn, installations that will be above 1 MW and without restrictions will not have to be entered, that they are on the roofs of buildings, i.e. if a company or institution, for example a municipality that has many municipal buildings, wants to install such facilities on its buildings, there will be no limit to planning and spatial planning. A very important issue from the point of view of the interest of the state budget. In fact, the settlements in the differential contract have so far been to take place in the perspective of the 15-year completed period of support. We are changing this so that these settlements can be carried out in a 3-year cycle, which will also be carried out for the benefit of investors themselves, so that they do not have to accumulate the amounts relating to settlement for the entire period. There was an important question here - I think it needs to be answered - concerning, ladies and gentlemen, the State Treasury land on the Board of the National Agricultural Support Centre. This is a good provision, which we also discussed extensively in public consultations, inter-ministerial arrangements. This is a question of energy security. This is the proper management of the State Treasury's land resource, which allows it to be carried out in a non-negotiable manner, but, of course, for payment, on market price terms, so that energy companies that are engaged in energy, including renewable energy, can invest on these land. Let me remind you that these are land of worse classes, often unused, not finding agricultural development, agricultural production. They can be used for, for example, the construction of photovoltaic farms, but combined with electrolytes, in order to produce so-called. Green hydrogen. Here we are moving on to a new link in the value chain of building hydrogen economy, the economy, you can say, 4.0. I'm slowly running out of time for my speech. I would like to say that the development of electricity networks, which you parliamentarians, Members, have asked about, is also a priority for us. The development plan for the network was adopted for 2020.2030. It is an official document approved by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Also [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Reconstruction Plan allocates billions of funds for this purpose in terms of both transmission networks and distribution networks at medium and low voltage levels. Thank you again very much for the constructive work on this bill. I know directly from the energy community that there are high expectations for its adoption. I hope that it will soon become the law in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Marshal, correct? A formal conclusion? Literally three sentences. Asking the Minister because the Minister didn't answer an important question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u72	Can you ask him directly here? [[I'd rather have the Minister say it on the stand. I promise it'll be literally 10 seconds.]] Please. I understand that this is in a corrective manner, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u73	Thank you very much. Yeah, in corrigendum mode. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister probably didn't understand the question I asked. I asked you a question about my current, Minister. I know it's next to the bill, but I think a lot of citizens are waiting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to inform whether a pool of funds will be extended. It amounted to 0.5 billion, and after 22 days it is just over 20 million PLN. Will this pool be expanded, and will this program be able to continue to function? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u74	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like that, sir? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u75	In extraordinary mode. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly, merely supplementing the answer to Mr Suchon's question. We do not expect an increase in the pool of funds in the programme, my current 3.0, while we are preparing a very large support programme, which will be correlated with the entry of new regulations changing support for prosumers, so that we can motivate prosumers, for example, to buy programmes for energy management, electricity storage, heat storage, so that we can develop a new dynamic energy market. An increase in the resources in this pool would deepen the negative trend that is linked to the waste that is currently in operation. We'd like to make as soon as possible... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: ...changes in the market to active market participants, including prosumers. Mr. Marshal! I'm just going to say that today, in the current questions, there's a question about my current, and I'm going to talk about it in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u76	Great, Minister, thank you very much. I thank the rapporteur for his resignation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. Amendments were tabled in the discussion, as well as a request to join the third reading of the draft law without referring to the committee. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 12. About an hour. 12 will be the solemn oath of the people. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No. There's a request for me to announce a time-out. 12 for the preparation of the oath. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 46 hours 12 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen! The Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, has appointed Mr Marcin Wiąc as ombudsman. [[Applause]] The Ombudsman shall take the oath before the Sejm before the Court of First Instance to carry out his duties. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with the following item: The Ombudsman's Vow. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the oath of the Ombudsman. The Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, has appointed Mr Marcin Wiąc as ombudsman. The Ombudsman, in accordance with the Article. 4 of the Law on the Ombudsman, before taking up his duties, he shall take the oath before the Sejm. I state that the Ombudsman, Mr Marcin Wiącek, has come forward to take the oath. I'm asking Mr. Marcin Wieck to take the oath. Please approach the grandstand and take your vows. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u77	I solemnly pledge that in the performance of my duties as Ombudsman I will remain faithful to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I will uphold freedom and human rights and citizens, following the rules of law and the principles of social and justice. I pledge that I will carry out my duties impartially, with the utmost care and diligence, that I will uphold the dignity of my position and keep my secret legally protected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. [[Marshal Elizabeth Witek gives flowers to the Ombudsman Marcin Wiąck]] I state that Mr Marcin Wiącek, appointed as ombudsman, made a vow before the Sejm. Congratulations, Mr. Spokesman. We wish you all the best in doing this honorable job. [[Applause]] The Sejm, with the permission of the Senate, appointed Mr Karol Nawrocki as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals. The President shall take the oath before the Sejm before the Sejm before taking part in the performance of his duties. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with the following item: Wedding the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish National. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Wedding the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. The Sejm, with the permission of the Senate, appointed Mr Karol Nawrocki as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals. The President, in accordance with the Article. 12 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, before taking part in the duties of the Sejm, he makes a vow before the Sejm. I state that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationalist Mr. Karol Nawrocki proposed to take a vow. I'm asking Mr. Charles Nawrocki to take his vows. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u79	I pledge solemnly at the position entrusted to me by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance to serve faithfully the Polish Nationals, to uphold the rights, to fulfil the duties of my office conscientiously, and to follow the principles of dignity and honesty. So help me God. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Marshal Elżbieta Witek gives flowers to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u80	I state that appointed as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish Mr. Karol Nawrocki took a vow before the Sejm. Congratulations, Mr. President. I wish you all the best. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 10 hours 12 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (prints No 1428 and No 1429). I would very much like to ask Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek to submit a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 1428. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 22 July 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 22 July 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u82	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Jajka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u83	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. This is print number 1428. The proposed project concerns the introduction of the possibility of sending the Polish Development Fund through the information profile in the IT system of Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych to conclude a contract for the management of PPK to the employer who did not fulfil this obligation. The solution is to apply during an epidemic or epidemic or one year after it has been cancelled. This draft law has been submitted to reduce the negative social and economic consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic, to increase the level of health protection and, at the same time, to ensure the proper functioning of the PPK system. The use of the ICT system of the Social Insurance Institution is a fast, effective form of communication eliminating the risk of unnecessary contact between people. This is an important and expected amendment of the law. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 22 July 2021, all clubs agreed to amend the law, for which I warmly thank all Members. The Law and Justice Club therefore welcomes the draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u84	Thank you very much. I've got this problem, but he's small, but there's no one from the Civic Coalition. [[Yeah, I did. I'm designated by the club.]] You made it, sir, at the last minute. The speaker is yours. Come on in. [[Voice from the Chamber: No, it is not, Mr Boris...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u85	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act is a technical law which enters into the package of all COVID cases and consists of amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, which imposes an obligation on entities employing the conclusion of an agreement on the management of staff capital plans within a specified period. According to the law applicable until the last day of the month of each end of the quarter, the Social Security Office must provide the Polish Development Fund with information about the business entities that employ employees and which have declared compulsory contributions to pension and pension insurance as part of the employee's capital plans. This bill, as I said, is technical. The ZUS provides information to the Polish Development Fund, and the Polish Development Fund may in writing ask entities within 30 days whether they have fulfilled a certain obligation to conclude an agreement for the management of staff capital plans. This law, I stress once again, essentially does not change anything, except the technical issue of simplifications during the pandemic. After the amendment it will be possible, using the information profile in the ZUS system, to provide this information through the information profile. Surely this is a simplification, it will certainly result in the elimination of direct contact during the pandemic, this direct, personal contact. The Act further clarifies the question of when employers are effectively informed about the fulfilment of their obligations. I stress once again: a technical law, certainly any simplification during a pandemic that eliminates direct contact and, on the other hand, affects the acceleration by means of the digital part, is desirable. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, I declare that we will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u87	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them is a good law. Such solutions as those proposed in this Act are certainly a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, only a step, because it still concerns This will be crisis situations such as the current pandemic state. How much longer will our country be wasting paper, money and the time of its citizens to deal with matters that can be successfully handled with a laptop, tablet or phone? Poles and Poles deserved to use simple electronic prints, and the environment deserves to stop wasting, for the purposes of public administration, forest resources in the form of a looting clipping of trees. We live in the 21st century, in a time of universal Internet access. Thanks to the development of digital technology, we have access to documents such as ID card or driver's license in principle at our fingertips through the app on our smartphones. Thanks to the digitalisation process, we can build a society based on the active action of conscious, independent and decisive citizens. Open data technologies or smart cities are growing more and more rapidly. Meanwhile, in Poland, a still adopted form of communication with the office is the preparation and printing of a paper. The pandemic crisis has taught all of us that when we show a little good will towards office clients, we can do the same things we've been queuing up with without moving from home. Offices can act effectively and solve citizens' affairs in a timely and appropriate manner. So why are we delaying preparing our country for a qualitative leap in the digitalization of Polish state administration? Other countries have made a digital leap, we, it seems, are just beginning to crawl. Why do we not follow the example of France, Spain, Germany, Finland or Estonia? We deserve an innovative country where we think about the usefulness of digital technologies and their implementation with simultaneous social participation. Is there any doubt today that official prints requiring tens of different information from Poles and Poles in 90% do they need to rethink and actually adapt to the needs of solving the problem with which the customer comes to the office? Prime Minister! Digitisation of public administration brings with it a number of benefits, from reducing costs and improving the quality of services through automation, by increasing access to public information, to increasing transparency and security. These guidelines should be followed by the government, thinking about digital technologies and having experience with the risks posed by the lack of development of such specific solutions. So it is time for the government, after the adoption of this law, to also address another problem from which we will not escape, and finally, in our country, the process of adapting law and regulation to new digital models of action by public authorities. Of course, although it is only a small step, the Left will support the bill passed by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u89	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present the position of the club on the draft law on printing 1428 and 1429. The proposed draft amendment to the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them adds an amendment to that Act by introducing Article. 31z. This provision concerns the Act of 4 October 2018 on Employee Capital Plans, which imposes an obligation on an employer to conclude a staff plan management agreement within a specified period of time. And employees' capital plans are a nationwide pension saving programme that does not interfere with the Polish pension system. The aim of the PPK is to provide financial security for Poles after 60 years. The purpose of the scheme is to pay the collected cash to persons after the end of 60 years Saving is to postpone part of the remuneration to a specially created account selected jointly by the employer and the employee in a financial institution. These savings are added to the monthly payments from the employer. Of course, people who want to give up participating in capital plans can do so at any time. On the other hand, the subject of the amendment of this law is the introduction of the possibility of sending the call referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Act of 4 October 2018 on Employee Capital Plans, using the information profile in the Information System of the Social Insurance Institution. The Polish Development Fund will communicate the name and NIP of the employer to the Social Insurance Institution and the Social Insurance Institution will make the call available on the information profile in the IT system of the ZUS. The Act guarantees that the costs of handling requests provided by the information profile carried out by the Social Insurance Institution using its own IT system will be covered by the Polish Development Fund. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party will support the proposed changes and support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u91	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the Senate bill amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of the amendment is to introduce the possibility of sending requests for the conclusion of a PPK management agreement using the information profile in the IT system of the Social Insurance Institution to those entities which did not fulfil this obligation. The solution is to apply in an epidemic or epidemic state and one year after they have been cancelled. According to the project, the Polish Development Fund will provide the Social Insurance Institution with data on the employer and ZUS will make the call available on the information profile in the IT system. The draft also clarifies that the call is deemed to be effective at the time of receipt of the call or 14 days after the date on which the call was placed in the electronic system. The cost of adapting the IT system to this solution will be covered by the Polish Development Fund. The cost of this adjustment was estimated at about PLN 11 million. In our view, this solution is heading in the right direction, the aim is to change paper calls to electronic calls. Of course, we have questions and doubts about the balance of this solution. This is inconclusive, and even in the explanatory memorandum we will find confirmation of these doubts, where we are talking about a high probability of achieving an advantage of savings over costs. We expect, Minister, that this adjustment will be implemented in accordance with the principles of public finances in an efficient but cost-effective manner. However, for Poland 2050 digitization is the direction that we actively support. Similarly, we approach this law and support it. On the other hand, I think it is worth noting that the digitalization process is built up with many paradoxes. For example, the issue of electronic identity in the mCitizen app. We're supposed to be able to confirm our identity, but this document isn't honored. You can send calls in electronic form, but e.g. entrepreneurs still have to provide officials with tons of paperwork. Digitisation, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, does not work as it should, and is in the fumes of absurdity. However, the digitalisation process undoubtedly improves economic efficiency, it is very useful and very desirable (The Bell) from the point of view of e.g. the climate situation, reduces harmful activities. That is why we will support this law, while the government today calls for really speeding up and rationalising computerisation, because this is really necessary. Thank you very much. Okay, so the bill with the support of all the clubs, you see, it's gonna pass. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a list of questions - four people. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Mirek, do you still want to ask a question? [[Yeah, I didn't make it.]] Please. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, of course we are asking questions because we have been deprived of two minutes of speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle. Therefore, we cannot articulate all the doubts we have about the project, and that is why we will ask questions that are important. I would like to ask the Minister about the question of recognition after 14 days that the call under the ICT system has been served. This is, of course, a mechanism from the point of view of PFR very positive, but for entrepreneurs it may mean that, although for independent reasons they will not be able to read the information, they will, however, be affected by all the legal effects. Therefore, what mechanisms do you foresee that entrepreneurs should not be faced with the fact that, despite not receiving information, they will be affected by the consequences (the Bell), and what will the information policy look like in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u92	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday in the Seym Marian Banaś, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, spoke about the implementation of the state budget for 2020. He pointed out that the real debt of the whole public finance sector was higher by PLN 224 billion than presented in official reports. The largest amounts, which are not seen in the state budget, relate to BGK's expenditure and the Polish Development Fund. On the other hand, the solutions provided for in the proposed regulation will increase expenditure related to the need to adapt the IT system of the ZUS to service. However, according to the provisions of these costs you do not cover with the Social Security Office, from the state budget, only you cover them with the funds of the Polish Development Fund. My question is: Why do you once again, despite yesterday's reservations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, hide the costs that should be included in the state budget? This time it is the cost of IT service of the ZUS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You say that costs will be less than potential profits, but I am afraid that this instrument will result in more expenditure. I'm afraid, Minister, this ICT system will cost tens of millions of dollars. Please respond to the estimated cost of handling this ICT system. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject of the revision of this law is to create the possibility of sending an electronic call in the case of a PPK management agreement through an information profile created in the ICT system, but this solution is only intended to function in specific cases related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. Yesterday, the Minister of the Polish Government instructed one of the present Members who read his speech from the card that he did not respect Polish forests. Therefore, in directing this information towards the Minister, I ask the question: Can this law not be introduced permanently and can the government also respect Polish forests and will not propose that there should be unnecessary production of tons of paper? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The provisions of this draft law provide that the notice referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the 2018 Act on Employee Capital Plans is considered to be effective. This occurs at the time of receipt of the call by the employer on the information profile in the IT system of the ZUS. The Act guarantees that the costs of handling requests provided by the information profile will be covered by the Polish Development Fund. There were doubts as to whether these costs were worth several million zlotys or - as the last speaker estimated - tens of millions of zlotys. Minister, are the calculated costs of this service actually at the level of a dozen million zlotys? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u98	Thank you, sir. Minister Stanisław Szwed, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, will speak. You're welcome, Minister, the pulpit is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs very much for their views on the support of this initiative. It was a senate initiative, and it was based on two issues. On the one hand, it was about ensuring maximum safety for employers who are in contact with the current provisions of the Act, for example, with the issue of delivery of letters and, on the other hand, about savings. There was a slight misunderstanding, so I will explain immediately that according to the current regulations, if the Polish Development Fund had to send these calls by letter, registered letter, the cost of such action would be PLN 11 million. In case of application of the IT profile of the Social Insurance Institution, these costs will be at the level of approx. 2.2.5 million zlotys, i.e. we achieve savings of almost 10 million zlotys. That's one action that's gonna save money, because the systems in the plant. Social insurance they already work, they do not need to be re-created, entrepreneurs already operate within these systems. The call concerns those entrepreneurs who are in the system, for example. employees for social security, and have not established a profile in relation to employee capital schemes. That's why it's different. The difference, as you can see, in the case of letter shipping and in the case of shipping in the ICT system is large, i.e. saving is considerable. And that's the purpose of this solution. I think that in the end - there were such demands - there will be an appropriate change in the Mother's Act on Employee Capital Programmes to make this solution permanent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you to the Members and Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill at the next session of the Sejm. Now we're going to try to move to the next point smoothly. We proceed with the consideration of item 26 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions, which in my case, as you know, usually happens. Members Mariusz Trepka, Anna Milczanowska, Joanna Borowiak and Lidia Burzyńska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice would like to ask a question about the programme of my current. This question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Mr Ireneusz Odna. The first question is asked by Mariusz Trepek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[I'm here. Mr. Marshal, the microphones.]] You're gonna have to turn it on at your place. Did you put the card in? [[Yes.]] Well, maybe we can fix it, and I'll have you in the podium. [[To the pedestal?]] It's supposed to work here. [[Does it work?]] [[Yeah, it's already lit.]] Say something, Member. [[Now?]] Oh, here we go. Pick a place, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My current programme is very good for society. We all see how many installations are already in individual houses, farms. Social consciousness is growing. People want to save and produce their electricity. My current priority programme was the first step in building Prosumer awareness within a wider distributed energy development plan. Its aim was to tame Poles with the subject of photovoltaics, increase the number of photovoltaic micro-installations and encourage Polish households - especially those located in less urban areas - to produce their own energy. On 1 July, the third edition of the programme was launched. Therefore, I have a few questions. When will the recruitment be conducted? What funds have been earmarked for this year's edition of the programme? Is there going to be a fourth edition of my current next year? How many individual users have submitted applications so far? How many of them have received funding? I would very much ask the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u102	Minister, come in. Minister Ireneusz will gain. You're welcome. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u103	Excuse me. Sometimes you'll forget. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for asking me about the priority programme. It is a programme that has been successful in the development of distributed energy in Poland, prosumer energy based on individual investment decisions of owners of single-family homes, although not only. Above all, however, it is about installations on the roofs of our single-family homes, which are used to reduce electricity bills. Ladies and gentlemen! We often miss certain facts. Sometimes it seems that what is, has been a long time and is in some way the natural turn of things. In December 2015 there were some more than 4 thousand in Poland. Prosumers. It seemed that it would be difficult to develop an initiative on distributed energy. First in 2016 we introduced provisions on the billing model in the discharge system - 0,8 into the Renewable Energy Sources Act. up to 1, 0,7 to 1 depending on the size of the installation - and then from 2019... The programme was announced in 2018, but the first call in the piloting edition of the program started in 2019. In turn, 2020 is a spectacular development, an increase in the number of photovoltaic installations on the roofs of our houses. At the moment, according to unofficial yet unconfirmed data in Poland, there are more than 650 thousand. Prosumers. I suppose - I say this on my own responsibility - that such a trend will continue and by the end of the year we will have 1 million prosumers in Poland. This is due to an informed government policy aimed at developing distributed energy and supporting renewable energy sources. I will answer your question. This year 1 July was announced to recruit for the new, third edition of the program "My currents." Last year more than PLN 1150 million was allocated for the second edition. This year it is a smaller pot because the application period lasts from 1 July to December. [[From last year...]] We have allocated about PLN 534 million for this purpose, depending on the exchange rate, because the funds have the implementation of this edition of the programme, and my current comes from EU funds. But why just so much and why 3,000. zł, not 5,000, how was last year? Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the technology has stopped. These panels are increasingly cheaper and installation services are also widely available. We have seen a trend that is also confirmed in other European countries. Over-support from public funds leads to higher prices, especially for services provided when setting up installations. After examining the market, after many consultations, we concluded that the sum of 3,000. PLN will be optimal and will not weaken the growth rate. It is worth noting that we can still apply for funding at the level of 5 000. zł from the parallel programme of clean air. The condition is to replace the heating source in a single-family house, then we will also be able to apply for an increased pool of funds for installation of a photovoltaic installation of up to 5 thousand. zł. Ladies and gentlemen! Next year - I hope this can happen from 1 January, but it should be correlated with the changes in the law in the Prosumer Settlement Act - we are preparing to introduce a much higher level of budget and impact on other installations of the programme. . It will not only finance the purchase and installation of photovoltaic panels, but also domestic electrical storage, heat storage, cold, energy management system at home or in the apartment and charger for the electric car. The idea is to give a boost to the consumption of electricity produced for our own needs at the place where it is produced, so that we move away from virtual storage in the electricity grid, because it has its limitations. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, I can say that my first and second calls have already benefited 266 407 applicants, while in the current third edition more than 60,000 have been submitted. conclusions. This budget is slowly going to run out. But, ladies and gentlemen, this market is developing perfectly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I believe that support from funds, public money should be appropriate to the needs of the market. If it is exhausted, we will reflect on its addition. Please remember, this is an important information for all interested that the Clean Air programme offers parallel high support in this area. The condition is to replace the heating source, which is also in the interest of improving the air quality that we all breathe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u104	Thank you, Minister. An additional question will be asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you something like that. We know that there are more and more companies that install photovoltaics in private prosumers. In fact, every day we're being attacked by calls with incentives. I think it is a good decision that the Ministry has decided to reduce this amount of funding, because we see a lot of interest and this power has increased enormously. It's a good thing we have a clean air program, where it's 5,000. It's still there. My question is this: Wouldn't it be possible for companies like PGE, Enea, Energa or Tauron to install this type of photovoltaic system in private owners, taking back the cost of electricity from their own owners, to make it easier and to make money as if it were going around money from the state budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u107	Thank you so much for that question. It seems that it is more addressed to the management boards of energy companies, which you have been kind to mention, possibly with support or approval from the Minister of State Assets, who oversees this area. Of course, the Ministry of Climate and Environment is very positive about such initiatives. Besides, we learn from TV commercials - maybe I will not mention brands or names, but you mentioned these companies - that in a comprehensive service they also offer professional installation of photovoltaic panels, prosumer installation. Does this have anything to do with the down payment? I don't know. We would have to examine their price offers. It must be said what the honourable Member rightly pointed out was that there was an avalanche discharge on the installation companies market. Yesterday someone was transporting people, someone else was selling vegetables at the market, and at the moment he is already an expert in installing photovoltaic panels and this is how he presents himself by offering his services to potential customers. Therefore, it is worth paying attention to the quality, professionalism, because this involves the good use of these installations, which are intended to increase the efficiency of the building in which they are installed, and reduce the costs for electricity. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Since I have some time left, I would like to draw attention to a false message that has appeared in public space in recent weeks. We want whether we are obliged to implement the Market Directive - partly because of the RED II directive - to change the system of settlement of prosumers. But all those who are now prosumers and who will be them, until the entry into force of the new rules, have guaranteed rights acquired and will settle in the current model of waste, 1:0.8, 1:0.7, for 15 years after the creation and introduction of the first kilolot hour. Hence, false, critical voices about some kind of prosumer assassination are unfounded. I ask the political class very kindly, but I also appeal to the media for responsibility in this regard. The Polish government, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, is responsible for implementing the policy of distributed energy development, including prosumer energy, and the new models that we are considering at this moment, whether in the Energy and Treasury Commission, or in the framework of the government project (Dzwonek), are also aimed at cost-effectiveness of installation and use of support for 15 years of the Prosumer installation. This is intended to serve Polish citizens, to reduce energy bills in the household bill for electricity consumption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marek Owa of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask two questions about government negligence in the implementation of flood protection in 2016 and 2021. These questions will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Marek Grybarczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last days have been very difficult, especially for the inhabitants of southern Poland, the district of thinking. Once again, the flood disaster has left great consequences. I am aware that we may never be able to fully protect ourselves from the effects of floods. But this flood - and every flood - must also be a moment of reflection for us, whether everything has been done so that such situations do not happen again. At this point I want to accuse the PiS government, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government of total abandonment in the last 6 years in the field of flood protection. You did nothing, except that you stopped all the programs that served to improve flood safety in Poland, especially in southern Poland. In September 2015, Prime Minister Kopacz signed an agreement with the World Bank and the European Development Bank for EUR 1200 million. More than PLN 5.5 billion was intended to focus on flood prevention activities, among others. to Małopolska, among others. To the poviat of Mentalism. You didn't do anything except stop this program. The effect is that you're the only government that doesn't build any flood shafts at all. For 5 years you have built only 120 km of flood shafts, and the government of Prime Minister Tusk has built 1732 km. That's the scale of the imbalance. But this gap is also in the case of Prime Minister Buzek's government when 950 km were built, or the Democratic Left Alliance (The Bell) when 620 km of shafts were built. Minister! Why, instead of increasing the flood safety of the inhabitants, instead of building shafts, are you doing shafts? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u110	Thank you very much. Minister, it's time for you to go. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this emotional speech - which is extremely fake, because we know that Mr. Marshal could only recently participate in the whole process of building shafts, unfortunately he pursued a completely different policy - little remains of the truth. I would just like to remind you that the biggest investments related to water management have been implemented and donated by our government. [[You're a liar.]] It is above all 2017 - the dedication of Świnna Poręba, which was completed by us, the completion of the water level in Malczyce, which you also failed to complete, 2020 - the tank in Roztoki Bystrycki in Kłodzkie Kotlin, as well as the most important thing that saved Silesia, Silesian, Lower Silesian and Opole Voivodeship, the construction of the reservoir in Raciborz. This tank today is 100% secures these voivodships. Of course, fighting floods is extremely difficult. Is she gonna show up? Of course he'll show up, but this tank gives the people great security. Further investments are planned for the coming years. It is close to 48 tanks, including the reconstruction of the tank, the Iron Polder, three dry tanks on the river Malinovka, a dry tank on the river Seraf, a tank of Tulce on the river Mocina, three tanks on the river Bętlewiance, four tanks in the area of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, four tanks in Kłodzkia Basin, work on the tanks of Kęta - Myscowa and Wielwieś Klasztorna are underway. All these investments are primarily intended to increase the flood safety of residents. Of course, the implementation of tasks also takes place on the basis of shafts, construction of new shafts. The Member here cites the investment scheme that has been known for years. Let me just show you - you may not see - the answer to the Member's slide. The Member simply considers everything in terms of investments in water management, i.e. plumbing, i.e. waterworks, and therefore any kind of soft measures you have carried out in this area. Ultimately, when it comes to the construction of flood shafts, it is on a similar level. This is the 61 km you've built as new shafts. The rest were only actions aimed at modernising and repairing after the 2010 floods. And it's very good that it was done. The bad thing is that all these shafts should be repaired today, because it does not use membrane technology that protects against rodents. Not to mention the issue of such events, that the shaft in the Lublin Voivodeship connecting with the shaft in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship differs about 1.5 m. Such things have also happened, but this is not of major importance primarily in terms of investment, because this is primarily the task of protecting the population. Today we place the main emphasis on retention tanks, dry tanks, polders that will capture water. You spoke today about the issue of floods. We have a completely different situation. Today it is flooding Krakow, and it is those districts that have little to do with the Vistula or other streams. These are just instant urban floods that cities aren't prepared for. Because they don't have what? A flood hazard map. These maps were missing in your day, too. Let me remind you that this year there are consultations on the second edition of flood risk maps, which even indicate and aim to indicate where investments need to be made and which areas are at risk. By performing tasks based on these maps, we secure 100% areas and we release them in terms of investment. I will also remind you of the 2010 event. One of the Sandomierz settlements was flooded precisely because there were no flood risk maps, and on this basis residents today can recover compensation from the State Treasury. This was the case in 2010. A court order just passed. But what does that change? I mean, people get hurt anyway. The worst thing is just... Dressing politics into it. You're talking about shafts. I will only remind Senator Gawłowski and his entire luggage of shafts, which was made (The Bell) in this regard. I'll remind you of the Wolfman's tank or the gate on Lake Jamno. These are all actions you've been firming. The deal you're talking about with the World Bank is very good, and we do it all the time. The second agreement, which you do not mention - the signing by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz with Germany for the third class of sailing in Oder - simply means that we are excluded from the system of European inland waterways. That's what happened in your day, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u112	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u113	Minister! You took the liberty of taking a few personal trips... [[Voice from the room: You too.]] ...so I would like to tell you that among the kilometres of shafts built in 2007 and 2015 a significant part of these are shafts built in Małopolska. At that time we realized these shafts by far the most. As you say, reconstruction combined with a 2 m shaft increase is nothing, it's just renovation, you're deeply mistaken. I want to tell you very clearly that the effort of the previous government, just the government of Prime Minister Tusk, the Ministry of the Environment, was to negotiate this agreement. And the effort of Miller's voivodeship and the local government of Małopolska voivodship was that the program, which only concerned the flood protection of Odra... E.g. Tanks were built from these resources in Raciborz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Upper Vistula, Silesian, Małopolskie, Świętokrzyskie and Podkarpackie Voivodeship, was also included in this. This is why huge funds have been raised to carry out these tasks. We in Małopolska spent PLN 200 million per year on flood protection, from European Union funds, from the state budget and from the budget of the Małopolska voivodship. The state of such measures after the reform of Polish Waters in the whole country almost does not exist. Except maybe last year. The outlays are just embarrassing. As I can hear you saying today brazenly that you've built... Mr... ...the Swine Poręba tank, to which you have added PLN 30 million, I want to tell you that you are in deep error. This tank was built earlier. Mr, Mr, Mr... [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]] For PLN 1600 million during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Mr... And he saved, among other things. in 2010 Małopolska and Kraków before the flood. And finally, Mr. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] Mr President, the end has come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u114	One minute and 20 seconds longer, sir. You know I'm trying not to speak. [[Thank you.]] Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u115	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that in 2018 672 255 thousand were allocated to flood prevention activities. PLN 1 237 400 thousand in 2019 PLN 1666 million in 2020. In this year we are going to complete investments for the amount of PLN 2473 million, which is an action which is primarily suited to investment needs in this area. Investment tasks are insufficient. It is known that water management, above all flood management, is, you can say, a bottomless well. But among other things. It is precisely because we are at the time of reception of flood risk maps that programmes are built on this basis in connection with the development of retention, the fight against drought, which are primarily about flood prevention and water retention. It's all about raising it to 15%. the possibility of retorting flow water in Poland. To answer this question, Mr President, I would like to say that everything you have done in previous years has been very good and no one will question it. But what did we have in 2010 during the rule of law? One of the biggest floods and one of the biggest tragedies in Poland. [[Nothing was done in 2005.]] All this shows that the fight against the element must simply be pursued together and should not be made into a policy. Just a few months ago, here on this platform, I don't know if you did, but you were standing here, attacking the Polish Waters and fighting the embolism flood on the Włocław reservoir. There the icebreakers, the whole cast, all the captains sacrificed their lives, entering the really dangerous areas, under the dam, and you've already sentenced them here, on everyone... [[You're wrong, check yourself...]] ...saying they're guilty of flooding. That's not what happened. The crews, Polish Waters achieved the highest degree of professionalism and saved, and implemented flood protection. And in this way they proved once again that they are a very well-prepared institution primarily for investing and protecting Poland from flood prevention. It all consists of one great program, which today is implemented by the Polish Waters. And I wanted to thank all the workers of the Polish Waters (Dzinek) who carry out these tasks and who are often still standing to fight the flood during this period, support, are at every call and will do so, will help all Poles who need this help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u116	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. The question on behalf of the parliamentary club Left will be asked by the following persons: Ms Karolina Pawliczak, Mr Jan Szopiński and Mrs Wanda Nowicka. This will be a question about compensation for local governments and planned redundancies of more than 10,000. people who support the implementation of the programme - Family 500+. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will be answered by Minister Barbara Socha. The question is asked by Mr Karolina Pavliczak, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 500+ programme was once a flagship right-wing project, and although this amount has not been valued for years and has significantly lost value, this does not change the fact that the programme is very much needed. However, the proposed changes assume the end 500+ in the sense we've known for years. In 2022, the method of granting the benefit will not only change, but also the institution that will pay the money to the families. 500+ will no longer be paid on current terms. With the entry into force of the Polish Order, the program will be taken over by the ZUS, which will have the funds allocated to help families. The revolution will have a financial impact on local governments, which have so far been engaged in servicing and paying 500+. Their work was paid for, which in the thin version will now be due to the ZUS. The funds will only be paid into the account, they will no longer be available in cash, and submission of applications, statements will only be possible by electronic means, which will make it much more difficult for poor families who do not have access to the Internet and who cannot afford to buy a computer. As is calculated in the description of the amendment of the law, thanks to changes the program will be cheaper by more than PLN 3 billion. But it is worth to add that for the service of 500+ local governments received about 1600 million PLN. This money was, of course, used to pay salaries to officials, but also to invest, and unfortunately this change will reduce the financial liquidity of local governments. And that's why one of the most important issues that I want to ask you is the fear of group redundancies among the workers who operate this system. Let's remember it's over 10,000. persons. The question is: Are measures being taken to ensure that employees (the bell) serving the benefit of 500+ have been transferred to the Social Security Office as part of the service? Will local governments receive compensation for losses associated with the organisation of the whole scheme? The resources that have been reserved for this purpose have never been sufficient. And the third point: How much compensation will be made for measures to supplement the lost revenues of local governments and to regulate budget indicators that have a huge investment value for local government finances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u118	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, just 10 seconds, supplemental.]] But it's gonna be two minutes. [[That's another question for the Minister.]] But there's gonna be a follow-up question in a minute. [[But the question is still for the Minister.]] Mr President, I love you because you're from my club, but I can't break the rules. There will be a minister, you'll have a minute or two to answer your question and the minister will answer again. So that I would ask kindly that we go the way we always go, because that's how I'm going to have to give everybody so much, and it's not really cool. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, we are not talking about any end of the 500+ programme today. The 500+ programme is very good, it remains a common program, accessible to parents of all children in Poland. What is changing is the implementation and implementation of this program from the operational side. The scheme is transferred to the Social Insurance Institution. The objectives of this change are quite clear and, I think, understandable to everyone. Firstly, it is about optimising, automating and digitising the entire process related to the payment of this benefit. This is a very simple, universal service that does not require complex procedures, easy to automate. This will increase the quality of services provided, reduce costs. I think that savings with an immeasurable cost, with the same benefits for parents - 3 billion savings in a ten-year perspective - this is a lot and this is the money that we can spend on other pro-family programs. As a result, we are dealing with accelerated digitization. I think that, in the previous item on the agenda, Mr Obaz's clubmate explained perfectly what the advantages of digitalisation are, what it is needed for, and how we can automate processes without forcing potential recipients to leave the house, to print applications, thus also limiting the possibility of transmission of the virus. Let me remind you that the pandemic in Poland is not over yet. As far as compensation for local authorities is concerned, of course, local authorities were the party that carried out the task commissioned. Since this was a task commissioned, there is no way that the government can transfer funds to a task that is no longer being carried out. About the employees and 12,000. people, it is from our estimates that municipal staff are absolutely not threatened with redundancies on this scale, because the whole administration is struggling with some problem, with the filling of various posts and we already have signals from many local authorities that these workers will be shifted to work in other departments in their municipalities and will get job offers. Of course, the practice will show on what scale, but from my conversations, which I personally have been conducting with local government officials all over Poland in recent weeks, because as part of the demographic strategy we are consulting with local government authorities, this is not the case. We're not picking up signals that indicate that self-government is afraid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u120	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, We're handing this assignment over to the U.S.S. and it doesn't cost us anything anymore. That's how I understand the philosophy of this task. Therefore, I would like to ask: will the employees of the ZUS carry out these tasks for God pay, or will they be paid extra for it? What are the additional costs in the Social Security Office regarding this case? And then there's the second line. Is there an obligation in Poland to have a bank account? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer this question, I will say that in Poland there is no obligation to have an account, while there is access to free accounts and from parents there are no comments that this is a barrier. As regards the costs of the CSO compared to the costs incurred by the municipalities, I would remind you that we are talking about the digitisation and automation of this process and thus reducing, which is obvious and natural, the human factor in carrying out these tasks. Therefore, the ZUS uses its existing IT infrastructure, following the work of adapting systems to receive such applications electronically, and there is no need to employ thousands of staff related to service. That's what automation is all about, digitalization, and that's why it gives us the opportunity to save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u124	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next... Yes, Member? [[The Minister hasn't answered any of my questions, I might ask.]] Minister, are you still there? Ask, Mrs. Messenger, because we're on time. Therefore, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister did not actually answer me in any way, if we could classify it, a specific way to ask about the budgets of local governments, because for so many years the funds under the 500+ programme have been classified as budgetary revenue and today, in quotes, these funds from the budgets of local governments will ruin these budgets. [[Voice from the room: How will it ruin?]] And I'd like to ask you about this compensation because that was my intention, that was my goal. [[Voice from the room: How will it ruin if there is no expense?]] Do you also consider helping local governments and supporting them, or do you want to show that the government is good and the local governments are bad?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome. After the Minister has spoken, we will conclude this question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking back the task commissioned in the form of the implementation of the 500+ programme will not affect the credit capacity and thus the investment opportunities of local governments. That is the assurance of the Minister of Finance. Consultations are ongoing and local authorities may comment on this project. [[And these comments are critical, critical.]] Like I said before, he's talking... According to our talks with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry is open to the fact that this change does not affect the finances of local governments on this side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u128	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Urszula Nowogórska, Mieczysław Kasprzak and Jan Łopata will ask a question about the rules for granting assistance to victims of natural disasters. This question is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, and on his behalf will be answered by Minister Maciej Wąsik, Minister of Interior and Administration. Excuse me, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Maciek can be, you're welcome.]] Mrs Urszula Nowogórska. There you go. You're gonna have to turn it on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u129	Can you hear it now? You can hear it, yeah. Now, that's wonderful. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, On the basis of the article. 91 and Article 91 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Supervisory Authority), amending Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and The passing weekend for Małopolska, i.e. for the voivodship where I live, was very difficult. $5.5,000. firefighters fought with the force of the element, over 1200 armies of volunteer firefighters and the State Fire Department supported Małopolan. Since Sunday, firefighters have intervened more than 470 times, mainly in the area of the Thinking and New Sądecki districts. The activities were also carried out in the counties of Kraków, Bochenski, Thoughtnicki, Podhale, Tarnów and Wadowice, and locally in the powiats of Gorlicki and Limanowski. Government representatives made a promise that each victim would receive an emergency aid of 6,000. zł. This is the maximum amount of aid authorised by the Minister's signature in June this year as regards the rules for granting aid from the State budget special reserve for the prevention and eradication of natural disasters. According to them, regardless of whether the aid is needed by a large family or by a single householder, the maximum aid amount is the same for all. In addition, the victims are also to receive later aid for the renovation or reconstruction of a residential or local residential building up to a maximum of 200 000. PLN, and in the case of losses on economic buildings, up to 100,000 are eligible. zł. And now the question, Minister: To what extent did the rules on the provision of a special reserve for the State budget for the prevention and eradication of natural disasters of financial assistance in the form of special-purpose allowances referred to in the Social Assistance Act, for families or for persons who are self-employed as a result of natural disasters, approved by the Minister on 21 June 2021, freeze the scale of the aid granted to victims of natural disasters, without taking into account either inflation or commodity prices (the Bell) on the market? What measures have been taken by the Minister to improve the payment system? Is it possible to increase this amount? And will local authorities be able to obtain additional support from disaster relief funds? I'm talking about the local authorities where these events were recorded. And whether or not the government has taken any action to accelerate progress in the construction and modernisation of flood shafts, e.g. in Roztoka-Brzeziny village, New Sądecki district? I know that the last question isn't for you, because it's out of your league, but if you have any knowledge, go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u130	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Six minutes, I'm just being polite.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I absolutely understand your concern for the people of southern Poland, and I would like to assure you and reassure you that the government takes equal care of these matters. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who visited these areas, made a clear and legible declaration: No one who has been injured will be left without help. We have an instrument for this, this is our special reserve four, called the disaster reserve. This year we have PLN 1100 million in this reserve, of which 900 million is as if marked and earmarked for flood-proof investments for Polish Waters. The response to crisis situations is 200 million PLN, which in our opinion, if something terrible does not happen, should be absolutely enough. It also seems that we will be able to help not only families, but also local governments from the south of Poland, where at least they have torn down bridges where they washed the roads. We will act decisively here and of course this money will also be for local governments. I will remind the High Sejm that we are divided into two groups in such situations. First aid is emergency aid. That's 6,000 help. zł, because it may be smaller in situations of smaller weight. This is about situations where natural disasters have occurred, such as storms, floods or fires in New White, right? I will tell you that at some point we realized that whoever helps quickly is helping twice, and we changed the procedures, we accelerated them. We decided that the aid would stay at the current level, but that it would come immediately. I would like to give you an example: there was a fire in New White at night from June 19 to 20, over a month ago. On June 20, the first money came from the Ministry of Finance to the voivodeship, from there immediately to the commune, to social assistance. After three days, these first six thousand benefits were in humans. We thought it was very important to help immediately. I wanted to tell you that we ran a quick analysis of how it used to be. Imagine that we took the 1st month of 2012, and it doesn't look good. There have been situations, I have it written here, that assistance in the case of July events arrived in December. Please understand that this kind of help is already mustard after dinner. It seems that it is better to act quickly so that people do not have to take moments than give something after six months, so that it will only be enough for interest from moments. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is also more help. Let me remind you, this isn't compensation, this isn't loss compensation. This is aid under the Social Services Act, so we're also helping... I know this isn't appropriate, someone burned down their house for half a million zlotys, and they could get 200,000. Evil, but this is help. We're trying to get this help very quickly. We also react very quickly to these events that you have spoken about. Let me give you an example of New White because he's very distinctive. After 3 days there were the first six thousand benefits. Other benefits, up to 100,000. PLN in the case of economic buildings and up to 200 thousand. zł in the case of residential buildings, they went on 22 June and 29 June. Last tour went July 5th. So basically, after two weeks of beating, all the people who suffered the most had the money to start the reconstruction process. This is very important, Commissioner, and this is where we are going. But I'm gonna say one more thing. I agree with you that you should see if you can help better. We are aware that this system needs to be improved, also in order to ensure that some money is not in the Ministry of Finance, but in the voivodeship, because it has happened that we have awakened the Minister of Finance so that these benefits can come quickly. Of course, Minister Patkowski came to the ministry on Sunday to accept certain amounts that were going. We're working on it. I hope that in the autumn we will be able to present to the High Sejm a new law on civil protection, which I think will further speed up and improve the assistance that we will provide to those affected in this type of event. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u132	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr John Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u133	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! With this type of information, questions like those that you have just asked, and when presenting the course of rescue operations as one of the first information about the fight against the element, there is the fact that thousands of firefighters, thousands of firefighters, mostly volunteer firefighters, because they are closest to saving people. These people are the first to help, because - I say again - they are very close, and today they are so equipped and trained that they can carry this help. Not so long ago I personally almost experienced this on the Vistula River, with those huge floods that were. We should thank them, we must all do so, and we must respect them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I think. Meanwhile, at the Ministry, Minister, and Chief The PSPs in the depths of their offices unfortunately created a bill or, as you prefer to call it, a project in which these fellows, firefighters, are a bit stripped of respect, are considered to be a certain foreign body. Now it's only under the leadership of the PSP that we're gonna lead these friends into action. That's how the bridesmaids take it. I ask the question: At what stage and in what form is this law that we all know about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u134	Thank you, sir. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! That question is a little out of the question, but of course I'm going to answer it. You can do this. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Of course, I join in thanking my friends because they act in a fantastic way and in thousands of cases, in hundreds of thousands of cases they are the first at the scene. On the other hand, I do not agree with your assessment of the draft law, but I do not fully agree with it. This project is largely written by volunteer firefighters. That's where their demands are. I am convinced that promises are being made, which the Polish state and various political formations, I will say boldly, for decades have made to volunteers and which they have never kept. This is the first time we want to do all this, including pension allowances, about which the Polish People's Party has repeatedly spoken, being in power. Mr President, we will deliver on these promises because we want to support the TSOs. The TSO law is entered in the register of government work and is in the process of inter-ministerial arrangements. Before the standing committee, I held the first debate with the joint committee of government and local government. The first one, I stress, because we're going to be talking about it again. I hope that in September you will be able to vote in favour of this bill, which I am sure you will. But there are firemen who don't understand certain records or who have been misled. Mr President, there have been such situations - the environments are dissatisfied with the fact that the Law and Justice are implementing their programme. Fakes were built on this project. It is me, sir, who invites you to come to the ministry. I'll tell these firemen what's in this bill, and I'm sure they'll be happy to leave the ministry. Do we have an appointment, sir? [[With pleasure, Minister, although there is a relationship that represents firefighters. You can also invite a fire team, we'll talk in a wider circle.]] Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I think I answered that question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u136	The important thing is that you two have an appointment. Thank you very much to the Minister and to the Members. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] Let's move on to question five. I have written: Members, but it seems to me that Mr Waldemar Andzel. Mr Waldemar Andzel will ask a question about mobile applications and electronic solutions for citizens. This question will be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, and will be answered by the Minister of Digitization, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Janusz Cieszyński. Did I say it all right? Welcome to the Minister. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The changes made on 17 June regarding the trusted profile make it easier to contact the official and establish a trusted profile without having to leave the house. I would like to ask what electronic solutions Poles use most often in the field of administration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u138	We're going for the fastest move. Minister, we're crossing our fingers for an even quicker answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u139	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As regards the trusted profile, I would like to say that many solutions have been introduced last year, which have made the trusted profile even more widespread. They made it easier to wear. This was the answer to the challenges that the whole country had in the COVID year, when there were some things that had to be done stationaryly so far, to do remotely, as it works in many other branches of life. Last year was a very good year when it comes to increasing interest in a trusted profile. We already have over 10 million trusted profiles. Let me remind you that when the Law and Justice in 2015 covered power, these profiles trusted were about 0.5 million and, above all, used by administrative staff, not our citizens. Later, there was a number of activities by Minister Anna Streżyńska, who introduced the banking sector into this ecosystem, and by Minister Marek Zagórski, who has very much merit in the field of dissemination in offices and among citizens, but also in establishing these accounts. I will go to the Member's question about the most popular services that Poles use through a trusted profile. Most often they use the services offered by the Social Insurance Institution - in 2020 it was 23 million logins. This is above all a tribute to the fact that the Social Insurance Institution during the Pandemic COVID-19 served many services for citizens and entrepreneurs and login was carried out through a trusted profile. Second place: Online Patient Account - 19.5 million logins. These patient accounts are already over 10 million. This shows that this is a solution worth investing time and resources in. Third place on the podium: National Tax Information - 9 million tax returns. Fourth place: work portal. gov.pl, electronic services of labour offices - a total of over 6 million logins. Database on products and packaging and on waste management, so-called BDO - over 5 million logins. Sixth place: Central Registration and Information about Business Activity - 3,4 million logins. This is a business portal where they can do business. A similar number of logins had a portal to monitor projects under the European Social Fund. There, all the matters that entrepreneurs, beneficiaries have to deal with, can be dealt with by logging in through a trusted profile. 8th place - 5 million, but collected from several services, i.e. on ePUAP and gov. en. There were mainly general writings, but also 700,000. I.D. applications, 0.5 million requests or information on the acquisition or disposal of the vehicle, 200 000. applications from areas supported by civil status offices. 9th place: portal biznes.gov.pl - approx. 1 million logins. And 700,000. - Insurance Guarantee Fund. I could keep counting, but I'll finish at the top ten. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u140	Thank you very much. I asked Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask for an additional question. Please, sir, please, please. 'Cause the Minister's getting all worked up about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for answering my previous question and I have an additional question: Can trusted profiles of two people be synchronized, can they be assigned the same telephone number and e-mail address? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u142	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u143	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A unique feature of each trusted profile is user login, i.e. a feature different from the email address and phone number. You can therefore use more than one account using one email address. Of course, we recommend that you use your individual number, your e-mail account for security reasons. These are easily accessible services when it comes to e-mail, it is very often free, so that you can easily use it. However, if someone wanted to e.g. in the family use such sharing, that's it. I'm sure it's possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u144	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to question six. Members of Zofia Czernow and Piotr Borys from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about the situation of the Turów Power Plant in the context of the conflict with the Czech Republic, as well as the newly built plant block. This question will be asked by the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Climate and Environment and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Artur Soboń and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. If you're surprised that I'm reading all this, I'm just reading to get it on the record. I just have to read anyway. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The inhabitants of Lower Silesia are very concerned and even appalled by what is happening in the mine and the Turów Power Plant. The situation is getting worse every day, and the government is hiding the truth and not telling us what's really going on. Turów is a workplace of over 4,000. employees and basic livelihoods for more than 10 000. members of their families. Specific things and questions. First, the TSUE judgment and the threat of mine closure. This is a very urgent matter since 21 May when the TSUE ordered the application of a preventive measure and the closure of the mine in its judgment. Within a few days, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced success that the matter was settled. At the same time, the Czech Prime Minister repeatedly protested and denied this statement. Unfortunately, he was right because nothing was agreed. Vice-ministers and Deputy Prime Minister Sasin came to Turowa. These visits, declarations and assurances have proved untrue, unfortunately. The mining workers feel deceived and no longer believe in the government's assurance of an upcoming agreement with the Czech Republic. Secondly, the new energy block built for more than PLN 4 billion, dedicated in the spring of this year worked only 1 month and since 19 June is closed. Why? The government is silent. It turns out that it was wrongly designed and made mistakes when running it. It is not adapted to the conditions and type of coal from the Turów mine. The automatic systems that drive his work aren't working. Questions. First of all, what's the truth about talking to the Czech Republic? Are they being run? When will they be completed? Will the operation of the mine not be compromised? Secondly, what happens to the new power block for PLN 4 billion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why isn't he working? And when will it be restarted? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u146	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, ministers. You guys have a total of six minutes so you have to share this time without a fuss. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the question and for the opportunity to address this important issue for Poland, for the energy security of the country. It is clear that the government is very concerned about ensuring the safe operation of this block, which is important - as I said - for the entire energy system. That is why we have engaged in discussions with the Czech party to find a way out of this situation that we have faced in connection with the surprising, for both parties, decision of the TSUE on the application of provisional measures. So, to the question of whether there are discussions with the Czech party, I can answer: yes, they are. When will they be completed? It is, of course, dependent on the will of both parties, the desire to end these talks. For several weeks now, we have been working quite intensively with the Czech side on concrete solutions that we intend to resolve in a long-term manner, ensuring that this block is functioning safely, taking into account all concerns raised by the Czech party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u148	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Second Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u149	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Membership! Mrs. Member! I'd like to say a few sentences. Firstly, I would like to reassure the Member that the stop in block 7 is not related to the failure or problems arising during the operation of the block. This stop, which began on 19 June and today will end - I will say this sentence - was planned and agreed with the contractor before the block was taken over and transferred to operation by the Turów Power Plant. All these findings have been included in the contract which is currently under way. The loss of capacity under the scheme, if that is also the concern of the Member, is compensated by the other power plants included in the PGE Capital Group. During this stop it turned out that the works that are being carried out there need to be extended to include the scope of works related to electrofilters and coal mills. I would also like to say today that July 23rd at 3 p.m. 23.59 this block, block 7, will be re-enacted into the system, because today these works have been completed. If it turns out that such a situation does not take place today that during the warranty period some corrective work will be carried out resulting from a stay longer than that resulting from the guaranteed block availability rate, then the guarantee period will automatically extend by the block retention period without the need to conclude any annexes in this respect. This is also included in the contract, so the Polish Energy Group completely took care of the interest of PGE and the energy security of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go, Peter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that the responses from the ministers are insufficient. Turów became a symbol of the state of incompetence. I have to say this with great regret as a resident of Lower Silesia. Firstly, the talks have not been concluded, contrary to the views, by the Prime Minister's assurances. That is why we expect information as to the effect and when these talks will end. They've been going on too long. This is a dangerous matter for the operation of mines and power plants. That's one thing. Second, the power block. Are you sure that in the contracts from May - other information is provided by the Gazeta Wyborcza - this technological interruption was planned, or is this the result of an inadequate power block? I'm asking for a precise answer. Three. Why do you give up nearly EUR 1260 million for the Zgorzelecki district for a fair transformation, which was foreseen by the European Commission? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are huge losses that will affect this region in a situation where we will leave in a dozen or so years from coal energy. Why are you also using these measures? You guys quit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u152	Thank you very much, sir. Ministers, you have plenty of time, because it's a little bit out of the previous statements. Let's talk at all. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u153	Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! As far as these talks are concerned, I absolutely agree that this is the best way to find an amicable solution in any dispute. Of course, we will only agree to a solution that will be in the interests of the country. If we are able to work out with the Czech side a solution that will enable us to do so in the long term, because it is not only a matter of the short-term solution to this case and of the withdrawal of the complaint, but also of ensuring that the blocks can function in the longer term, then it will be in our interest to conclude such an agreement. But it also depends, of course, on the will of the Czech side. As far as the question of fair transformation is concerned, the Fair Transformation Fund, the government has absolutely not given up any money. On the contrary, the government is actively fighting and convincing the European Commission that there is no reason not to support the transformation of the region or to wait for the last moment to undertake such investments. The European Commission's approach to this issue is absolutely incomprehensible to me. The government has agreed with trade unions on a timetable for the transformation of the mining sector. If we know that this transition will take place, whether or not the mine will close in 2023 or close in 2044, investment in the region is still needed in order to develop new sectors of the economy so that we can create new jobs for the region. For me, therefore, the European Commission's position, which says that we should wait for such a mine to be closed down to take action, is somewhat absurd. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u154	Thank you very much. Minister Arthur Soboń. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u155	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to be careful in obtaining information from the source you have said about, i.e. from the Gazeta Wyborcza, because of course the key documents are, and the documents in this case look as follows. Before the stop on 19 June, the Polish Energy Group together with a consortium of three companies, which is the general contractor of this project, as part of the guarantee and as part of the contract, prepared a preliminary schedule of work planned during the block stop. The stop was reported on June 19th. The scope of these works has been extended, it is true, about the tasks I was talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This stage of work on July 23rd, which is today, will be completed and the block will return to the system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u156	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Barbara Dziuk and Barbara Bartus will ask a question on organic farming in the context of the development of small and medium-sized farms. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, on whose behalf will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Bartosik, whom we welcome. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk. The card needs to be inserted, Madam, press the button. [[Voice from the Chamber: Message card.]] Thank you so much for the hint. Member of the Commission, put in your Members' ID card. I was wrong. Already? He's here, yeah. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Organic farming uses cultivation methods designed to produce food using natural substances and processes. This means that organic farming has a lower environmental impact as it promotes responsible use of energy and natural resources, maintaining biodiversity, maintaining regional ecological sustainability, improving soil fertility and productivity and maintaining water quality. The organic food market is the most dynamic food production sector in the world. Since the early 1990s, there has been an increase of about 20%. per year. The development of this market is fostered by the growth of society's wealth and consumer awareness of healthy lifestyles. The Polish organic food market was valued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for about PLN 1 billion in 2018. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: How will the development of organic processing be stimulated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u158	Thank you so much for asking. Now, we'll ask you kindly for an answer. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Solutions for stimulating the development of organic processing are included in the Polish Load program, where we are talking about the release of agricultural retail trade. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has pursued and continues an active policy to support the development of small and medium-sized farms, those engaged in organic production. In our legislation, using the opportunities offered by EU law, we introduce numerous facilitations for Polish farmers and other small and medium-sized food production operators on the local market. In addition, work on simplification and facilitation of food production at farm level as well as in small and medium-sized enterprises is and will continue in the Ministry on the basis of requests, inter alia. organisations working for agriculture. In the current legal state, the production of processed food on agricultural holdings and its placing on the market on a small and medium scale within short distribution chains may take place within three forms of activity: agricultural retail trade, marginal, local and limited activities, as well as retail trade. Polish food producers, including farmers carrying out the activities mentioned above, as well as organic food producers, can benefit from numerous simplifications and facilitations to support the development of domestic production, as defined in national food safety legislation. Work is currently underway at the Ministry of Agriculture to introduce further facilitations for farmers engaged in agricultural retail trade. Due to the assumptions of the Polish Government document, which included among others: initiative under the name: Release of agricultural retail trade, the Ministry of Agriculture carries out actions to support operators engaged in agricultural retail trade. In particular, national legislation is intended to: allow the sale of agricultural retail products to retail establishments for final consumer purposes, such as: shops, restaurants, cafés throughout the country, direct sales to RHD consumers throughout the country are already possible; the removal of maximum limits on the sale of food to final consumers, these limits will apply only to the supply of RHD food to shops, canteens or restaurants; the increase of income tax-free revenues. Currently, this amount for RHD amounts to 40 000. zł. We want to raise her to 100,000. zł. We also want to support small and medium-sized enterprises through the National Reconstruction Plan. The agri-food sector has been identified among the other sectors of the economy as particularly important in creating stable conditions for economic growth following the COVID-19 pandemic. The money received under the programme will be used for technological modernisation, will go to home companies and improve the quality of life of Poles and the competitiveness of our economy. Under Component A of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Competitiveness of the Economy: Investment for diversification and shortening the supply chain of agricultural and food products and building resilience of the actors involved in the chain is provided for support of EUR 1267 million. Ladies and gentlemen! This support will also be possible within the framework of the National Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy for the period 2023-2027, and there is also ongoing support from the RDP 2014-2020 - here farmers can benefit from different programmes (the Bell), e.g. support of 100,000. PLN in the case of farmers submitting applications under RHD or 500 000. zł in the case of farmers submitting applications for economic activity. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. And I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u161	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Thank you very much for this first answer. This is particularly important for my territory, because the Gorlicki district is located in mountain areas and the soil is really low quality here. This organic production is therefore very important and this is happening, but also a very important direction for the development of Polish agriculture is to make greater use of the potential of small processing. The dynamic increase in the number of organic farms and organic crops in recent years in the European Union has not translated into Poland... [[He's down.]] ...to increase the production and processing of these products. Despite their support from the common agricultural policy, there is no return on the growth in the supply and processing of organic raw materials. At present, around 50%/60% organic products, which go to retail in Poland, come from imports. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Between 2014 and 2018, the area of organic crops did not increase. But, most importantly, the rule that we are talking about, from the farmer or from the field to the table, needs processing. Thank you very much, Member. Minister! What is the Ministry's intention to do so that domestic products can be processed to a greater extent... Thank you very much, Member. ...from small and medium-sized farms? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u162	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Richard Bartosik, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has developed a Framework Action Plan for Organic Food and Agriculture for the period 2021-2027. It is based on various activities, such as research, scientific methods of organic production, promotion of organic farms, but first of all we want to benefit from the measures that will be used under the National Reconstruction Plan for processing, and this process, which will operate close to the producer, to shorten the delivery route of agricultural foetuses to processing plants. Farmers will be able to benefit from these measures, but also entrepreneurs who will set up processing plants in the districts and municipalities. This action will also allow farmers who are engaged in organic farming to benefit from these programmes. We are also working on a solution that will make it more possible to supply organic products to schools in the context of children's nutrition. This is a very important action that will have a positive effect on the one hand for farmers who are engaged in organic production and on the other hand for healthy nutrition for children and young people combined with environmental education. So this is a very important action that we will put emphasis on. The development of organic farms, the development of this activity, is at our heart. As we all know, the European Union's recommendations are to reach 20% organic production in the Union. So we in our country have something to work on and we would like to achieve in some real, near future the goal of functioning 10 organic farms. Therefore (The Bell) the use of these European measures, as well as the implementation of... Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: ...in the life of the Polish Order should enable us to achieve this goal, which I was just talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u164	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Marchewka and Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, on the failure to announce the invitation to tender by 30 June 2021 for the execution of the Western road bypassing Szczecin. This is a question for the Minister of Infrastructure. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u165	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Western road bypass of Szczecin is a key investment in improving the quality of life of our city's inhabitants. I want to hear some specifics from you, because so far you're not doing well, just like you did with the construction of the Szczecin Metropolitan Railway. You can't see the effects. After all, in February, the Minister informed that by the middle of this year all procedures would be announced so that this investment could be started. So? Nothing again. So I ask, on behalf of the people of Szczecin and Western Pomerania, why you have deceived us once again, why your successive promises have become uncoverable promises. Even recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke at a press conference, and in the background there was a poster with a drawing of this road. The Western Pomeranian Voivodeship claimed that the new order is great, because it includes the Szczecin ring road, and that these are great news for our city. The news may be great, but the fulfillment of these promises is terrible. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, when will these procedures finally begin when you will announce a tender for the construction and design of this very important, one of the most important infrastructure investments for Szczecin and the entire Western Pomerania. It's time for something specific. Nothing happened by the end of June, and you can't do it anymore. Wait for it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: It was nothing in your day.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u166	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Secretary of State at Andrzej Bittel's Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Member, the development of road infrastructure in Poland is one of the most important priorities currently facing the Ministry of Infrastructure. Efficient and well-functioning, with adequate technical parameters and properly prepared and constructed transport infrastructure, including particularly road infrastructure, although I would say rail, is a very important factor in the wider development of the regions as well as the whole country. In addition, in these times, times of epidemics, public investment is an important driver of economic growth and guarantees employment continuity. As part of the development of road infrastructure, two programmes are currently underway, which aim to develop national roads: As part of the national road construction programme, national road infrastructure is being expanded, new sections of motorways, express roads are being constructed, sections are rebuilt, as well as selected bypasses to be completed by 2025. Due to the determination of the whole government since 2015, the financial limit of the national road construction programme has been raised from the original amount of PLN 107 billion to the current amount of PLN 163.9 billion. The increase in the financial limit of the national road construction programme has enabled a number of investments in road infrastructure. The increase in the limit has now led to the completion, under the programme, of 105 tasks worth PLN 48 billion and with a length of more than 1374 km. There are 111 tasks worth nearly 69 billion PLN and over 1460 km in length. The tender includes 19 tasks worth more than PLN 11 billion and a length of more than 232 km. The tender is expected for tasks worth PLN 37.5 billion. One example of the implementation of the road path thanks to the increased limit is the implementation of the S6 express road, which runs through the Zachodniopomorskie and Pomorskie voivodships. The S6 expressway is one of the most important elements of the national communication system. It connects important cities of our country, is a road connection of Polish seaports and also serves tourist areas. Currently, there are 133 km of S6 expressway from Szczecin to Koszalin. Construction of the S6 expressway on the Słupsk - Bożepole Wielkie section with a length of more than 71 km is realized. The investment was divided into five implementation sections. I'm sure you all know them very well. Agreements were signed with those selected by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways: on 28 May 2021 for the first section, i.e. the second road in the Słupsk ring road, on 29 June 2021 for the third section: Bobrowiec node (without a node) - Skin node (without node), on 15 June 2021 for the fourth section: Skin node (without node) - Lesnice knot. The signing of contracts for the implementation of sections 2 and 5 is planned in the current quarter 2021. The implementation also includes the S6 expressway on the Lębork - Tricity border with a length of 41 km and the Tricity Metropolis border with a length of 40 km. The construction of the S6 expressway on the Lębork section - the Tricity ring road is divided into three stages and is in progress. The construction of the three-city ring road was divided into two sections. In April 2021 contracts were concluded with contractors. These sections will be completed in the first quarter of 2025. At the stage of preparation there is a tendering procedure concerning the section of the Koszalin - Słupsk expressway. The announcement of this procedure is planned in August 2021. At this stage, it is assumed that the S6 expressway in the Pomeranian Voivodeship will be completed and put into service until 2025. So much for entry. It is worth remembering that the S6 road programme is extremely dynamically implemented. I move on to the tender for the Western bypass of Szczecin. Here you must ensure that all possible deadlines are respected. As announced already in June this year. works have begun to announce the tender. It is worth mentioning here that although the western circumvention of Szczecin was included in 2015 in the regulation which raised its rank, no funds were provided for the implementation of this investment. The measures were also missing from the provisions of the national road construction programme, in which (The Bell) the western bypass of Szczecin was not included, and thus was not accompanied by a strategic environmental impact assessment programme. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Two more sentences, Marshal. You're welcome. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: This investment also did not fit in the 2015 limit. The limit was 107 million and was 100 billion for small, which is why this investment was not realised. Let's get this straight. We are now taking consistent action and in the new national road construction programme funds for this investment are located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u168	Thank you very much. Please ask Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It would be hard for a minute to say what you didn't do, and you should do it, so maybe I'll go back to the S6. Please add, Minister, that everything you're doing is delayed according to your calculations from 6 to 10 years, depending on which episodes we're talking about. It seemed strange that Pomorskie voivodship was deprived of its investment. The S6 road, and you just started doing it. The same happens, surprisingly, in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, where the Metropolitan Railway is delayed by 2 and 3 years. Now the wonders begin in connection with Szczecin's western ring road. Minister! What you have said can be read on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure or on the website of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. It's all written in there. Mr Marchewka asked about a completely different matter. Let me clarify this question and I would like to get a specific answer. Do you have a schedule for the construction of the western ring road (The Bell) of Szczecin? Do you have money secured for the construction of Szczecin's western ring road? If so, where is it written? Are you talking to local governments where the western ring road of Szczecin will cross the area, to design their roads including it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u170	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, any investment carried out under the National Road Construction Programme - in this perspective or in any other way - is subject to the same procedures that are being applied. The measures must be secured. The measures will be secured under the new National Road Construction Programme. Failure to take action in 2015 prevented this investment from being carried out under the current programme. These investments will, of course, be carried out in agreement with local authorities. This is the code that we follow every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u172	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Elżbieta Płonka, Ewa Filipiak, Piotr Uściński and Artur Szałabawka from Law and Justice on the rest of Poles as part of the tourist voucher. The question to the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Płonka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Tourist voucher is a form of support for Polish families and for the tourism industry in a situation where the economy is weakened by the COVID-19 pandemic. It is an electronic document which entitles you to benefit from the amount of 500 PLN per child up to 18 years of age. The voucher can be used until the end of March 2022. Children with a disability decision have an additional 500 PLN, i.e. a total of 1000 PLN per child. A voucher shall be entitled regardless of the level of income. It has been in operation since September Ub. By means of a voucher you can pay multiple times for hotel services or tourist events carried out in Poland by tourist entrepreneurs and public benefit organizations included on the list run by the Polish Tourism Organization. I have a question. How often families benefit from the gift during the holiday period - it is July and August this year. - and everything? What is the state of the Polish tourism economy? What are the results of support for this bon? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u174	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u175	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! The Polish Tourist Bonus was launched in July 2020. Its primary objective was to support Polish families with children and support the national tourism industry affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. After a year of operation more than 2.4 million vouchers are activated with a value of over PLN 2 billion. The value of tourist services paid with a bonem exceeded PLN 1 billion yesterday. This is 25%. the amount of PLN 4 billion that is earmarked for this project. The main effects of support for tourist vouchers are primarily to enable those families who have not so far used tourist services, as well as to purchase varied packages of hotel services or to extend their holidays by additional days by families. Customers using the voucher book an average of 10% longer stays and spend on average 27% on rest more than any other person. These figures best show that the voucher works as intended and actually supports both sides of the programme, both travellers and the tourism industry. In July this year. The Polish Tourist Organization conducted a study which assessed selected aspects of the introduction of the Polish Tourist Bonus. The survey was carried out on a sample of over 1200 respondents, representatives of tourism companies from over 300 municipalities benefiting from the voucher. The survey showed that during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Polish Tourist Bon programme had a positive impact on the activities of the participating enterprises, but also, what is important, local authorities and rural areas. The programme has enabled the tourist market to be stimulated, including an increase in the number of people who have been able to benefit for the first time from rest in the facilities covered, and many additional benefits for companies benefiting from the programme, among others. a significant increase in the number of customers. The structure of respondents assessed in terms of their activity indicates that relatively large participation in the Polish Tourist Bon program is held by agrotourism entities, almost the same as motels and guesthouses. At the same time, a large proportion of private accommodation companies also operate in rural areas. Owners of private accommodation and agrotourism facilities more frequently than the total number of companies surveyed, 22%, declared that at least 26% of their income from the last year was derived from payment of the Polish Tourist voucher. The vast majority of the companies surveyed, about 70% , thanks to participation in the Polish Tourist Bon program she gained new clients, and almost every fifth company participating in the program extended promotional and marketing activities. As much as 76% companies that have increased their business as a result of participating in the voucher programme have acquired new customers at the same time. 84% surveyed companies positively assessed participation in the program and more than 90% test subjects want to continue it. Similarly, 88% recommends participation in the Polish Tourist Bon program for other companies from the tourism industry. More than half of the subjects, 51% , indicated that at least 26% guests in their facilities took advantage of the Polish Tourist Bonus for the first time. Tourists who first took advantage of the rest were more likely to choose facilities in rural areas. The percentage of visitors who first benefited from these services thanks to the tourist voucher was more than 50%. These are mainly campsites, but also amusement parks, agrotourism, private accommodation - these are facilities where more often than in other guests, for the first time, the percentage of guests was up to 50%. As far as the state of the Polish tourism economy is concerned, a total of 2020. The Poles took 38 million trips and compared to 50 million in the previous year it is a decrease by 22%. There were 16 million long-term trips, a 20% decrease, and 22.6 million short-term trips, a 24% decrease. In the first half of 2020 - 13 million, or 34% less than in the same period in 2019. These were mostly short-term trips, 2,4 days, which accounted for 70% the total national trips. From the perspective of the year we can say that the tourist voucher strongly encouraged rest in the country, but also family recreation. And if the tourism industry, not only in Poland, but around the world, has experienced dramatic times, difficult moments, it was one of the basic instruments of real, economic, but also psychological for tourism industries, showing that the state supports and remembers these most affected industries in the economy. An important result of the voucher is a large increase in registered accommodation base. Local authorities of some tourist communities report an increase in the number of registered hotels by up to 30%. on a yearly basis. This affects the growth of their income and also compensates for the conditions of doing business, which is, in short, eliminating the grey zone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u176	Thank you very much. Is the Member still... Please ask for an additional question. [[Okay, I'll do it right away.]] Mrs Elżbieta Płonka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u177	It is known that the voucher was directed to practically or theoretically 6 million children in Poland. Are we able to, or are the Minister able to answer, how many children have already benefited from this gift? Is it a question of the fact that it is long-term, and we are not yet able to sum up this one-time leisure aid, but important for maintaining the tourism industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u178	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! The Bonus was directed to 6 million children, but about 4 million families. At this moment, according to these data, which I have already quoted, we are now seeing about half of the amount of beneficiaries of the tourist voucher, but also about half of the amount that was allocated to the tourist vouchers due to the tourist voucher. I'm sure for months it was limited to registering in the tourist voucher system. Let us remind you that there were many months of downtime, the tourism industry was closed or partially closed. On the other hand, since May, April this year we have seen an avalanche increase in registration in the system and collection of a tourist voucher. In March, in April we had approx. 1 million registered, generated vouchers, right now we have almost 2.5 million. This shows how fast the number of people who collect a tourist voucher grows from day to day. A legislative change, which we made in January, is likely to contribute to this: the tourist voucher can also be used for so-called. day-to-day events. So the tourist voucher doesn't have to be correlated with the accommodation service, it can be used for a guide service, aquapark or other tourist service. It can, of course, also be used for accommodation, but this is not a necessary condition. This makes the rest of children, youth, colonies, sports camps very happy at the moment, you can say, mass-paid with a tourist voucher. One of the large tourist offices, which specializes in youth tourism, in sports tourism, determines that daily about 500 people come, apply to register tourist events and pay Polish tourist vouchers. This is the sphere of tourism, which is the most valuable, it is, you can say, an additional effect of a tourist voucher: it stimulates the most valuable form of tourism, i.e. rural tourism, close to nature, but also tourism of children and young people. Today we have almost 28,000. entities that have registered in the service base under the travel voucher. This is also a big effect - those who most expect support and assistance can join this bonus. These are mainly hotel facilities, accommodation facilities, i.e. guesthouses and agrotourism. On the other hand, what I have already mentioned before, the decline in the grey zone (The bell) in the tourism industry is one of the additional effects that will have a long-term impact on improving the competitive conditions of the tourism industry in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u180	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by the Members Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Tomasz Latos, Tadeusz Chrzan and Mieczysław Baszko from the Law of Justice on the state of blood donation in Poland and the resources spent on improving the equipment of blood donation stations during the pandemic. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Bleeding is a blood donation by healthy people to those in need of blood or its components. Blood is one of the most desirable medicines in medicine. You can't make it, one man can only get it from another man. Anyone who is 18 to 65 years of age and has good health can become a blood donor. The time of the Koravirus pandemic posed additional new challenges to the blood service. One of the treatments for COVID-19 was the administration of sick plasma healers. My questions: How was the work of blood donation and blood treatment centres in Poland during the pandemic? Were there any additional investment purchases, equipment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u182	Thank you. Please answer the question of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The question is quite broad and general and indeed relevant to the whole blood donation system during the pandemic, at a difficult time when - as we well know - there were perturbations. The area of blood donation could potentially have been affected by them. I'm saying he could, because luckily that didn't happen. It is also important to be aware that the collection of blood in large part takes place on the occasion of certain events, in workplaces, in schools, in universities, i.e. in places which in principle did not function in pandemics or were closed, or at least during this most difficult period, i.e. from March to May of that year, were significantly limited. Fortunately, we did not have a situation in Poland - either in the previous year or this year, in the third wave - in which there was no blood. In fact, blood collection was carried out in a permanent, systematic manner: 21 regional blood centers operated throughout the period and beyond the absolute minimum breaks in activity, mainly caused by the quarantine of the crew or parts of it, the whole public blood service functioned. If we look at the number of donors, or donations received, in the previous year, it was slightly lower than in previous years. The number of donors who regularly gave blood in previous years was about 600,000. persons. In the previous year - 570 thousand, but we must also bear in mind that these donors were more systematic. Here, in particular, we could count on a group of honorary blood donors, those who have already confirmed that they are really a pillar of blood treatment, blood donation in Poland. The number of donations was also slightly smaller, earlier around 1300 thousand, now 1,200 thousand. units, on the other hand, has been sufficient to ensure continuous delivery of blood to hospitals. What is worth noting, of course, besides whole blood, is that of the plasma that you mentioned and the initiatives related to plasma collection - I will discuss them quickly. I can unambiguously confirm that there was no situation in which plasma was missing. Maybe beyond the very beginning, when expectations were significantly higher, but after about 2 weeks of de facto until today's plasma we had and we have more than needed. Today we have his supplies. What were the initiatives? The Member spoke about investment. Yes, of course investment was also available, and although regional blood donation centres are well equipped, we took part in the European project for over 3.5 million PLN, first of all for the purchase of plasma collection equipment from health care professionals. Eight regional blood centers joined this project. As the Ministry of Health, we supported them mainly in the field of additional plasma separators or SARS-CoV-2 antibody testing apparatus - it was about PLN 4 million for these investments. That was the need, the greater needs were de facto not. Regional blood donation centers or laboratory centers for plasma collection were quite well prepared, because it is part of their standard activities. When it comes to initiatives that are worth pointing out, because, as I said, there were no events, there were no open schools, there were no workplaces, in particular we established additional download days, Saturdays and Sundays, we extended working hours, we started additional phone numbers or email addresses to contact and register, because in the first wave of pandemics the donor signed up for blood donation. What's very important is that we've included nurses in the donor qualification process. This was made possible by one of the COVID laws. Also regional blood donation centers actively joined the diagnostic process and especially at the beginning of the first wave these powers mainly five regional blood donation centers such as Białystok, Gdansk, Katowice, Lublin, Poznań, were really large and impressive in relation to the whole scale of COVID tests. In addition to this investment support, it is worth mentioning current support. In view of the need for, for example, an increased number of personal protective equipment, the need to extend work, overtime, etc. We have committed grants or an increase in the conversion point per unit of blood subsidies to regional blood donation centers. In 2020 there was about PLN 6 million and a similar increase in 2021, and PLN 6 million in this respect. Importantly, some initiatives have been directed to blood donors and the Parliament's COVID act has given additional powers to those blood donors who give full blood and to those who give plasma as the plasma of the healers. These two biggest additional benefits are 2 days off, extra leave from work or work for those who have given blood or plasma after COVID disease, and an additional 33% reliefs for journeys by means of public collective transport. These are reliefs that have been added to the pandemic. What is very important, throughout the pandemic period, we have conducted quite active promotional measures, encouraging blood donation. In fact, we ran a campaign and in national stations, and in thematic, radio and television stations. It is worth pointing out that many TV stations have taken us down (the bell) and during this period it was often part of a certain social support, not the financing of advertising, although we have actually increased the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Baszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for the first answer. Minister, every day health benefits are provided that require blood protection, e.g. operating procedures, replenishment of shortages, e.g. cancer, anaemia. My question, Minister, is: What measures are being taken to secure the need to supply hospitals with blood?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u186	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Sławomir Gadomski to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u187	Thank you. Mr. Speaker! First of all, what I was talking about, because this standard cycle of action, i.e. certain promotional actions, current contact with the donor through regional blood centers or field troops, are actions that we carry out gradually. In this most difficult summer period, we have launched a new social campaign. I hope you've already had a chance to watch TV spots. Also on the radio there is a new campaign in which we say that vacation is the hardest time for public blood service. This is a period when systematic donors often leave, a holiday period, but also a period during which the number is clearly increased. communication accidents and these consume significant amounts of blood. As an example, perhaps averaging, one victim of a communication accident is about 10 units of blood, which means that 10 donors must give blood for such surgery. Liver transplant - 20 units of blood, so in fact these numbers during this holiday period make a special impression. Today we have security, you can say, safe minimum. Hence increased activity and increased campaign. We encourage all blood donors, we appeal to them to report to the open centers, which are now able to use this momentary, say, or maybe already permanent relief in the pandemic and that there are some outdoor events, events and there really regional blood centers or through mobile collection stations, buses or other formulas are active. I may still use this minute because I have not answered the honourable Member, which is very important. In addition to this activity in the pandemic, what is supposed to protect the blood donation system from further challenges and similar, I hope not, scale, is investment support already much wider, not such ad hoc, related to the pandemic, but system support. As part of one of the European projects, the REACT project, we managed to find a very large amount of money, because PLN 250 million, a quarter of a billion zlotys for support in 2.5 years of regional blood donation centers. This will above all be infrastructure support, but also the expansion of this mobile collection system, and this is a post-pandemic action, such as the effect of which on the areas of blood donation will be as quick as possible, because it is within the old perspective, i.e. funds to be spent by the end of 2023. A quarter billion is a really huge sum in terms of securing the needs of blood donation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to the last question. Members Andrzej Gawron, Jarosław Gonciarz, Agnieszka Górska, Patrick Wicher and Jerzy Małecki from Law and Justice ask a question about the communication on the Fit for 55 package. They direct them to the Minister of Climate and Environment. Please, the question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The European Union, de facto the European Commission, has recently presented a package, the Fit for 55 programme. The aim of this package, as the creators announce, is to reduce CO In its communication, the Ministry put forward its position that there are opportunities and threats in this package. I would like the Minister to present a comprehensive range of the solutions proposed there, because this does not only apply to industry, but can also affect transport, heating buildings. As I said, it can cause very high costs to the population. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to discuss this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u190	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Mr Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u191	Thank you very much. (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for asking. You're absolutely right. The Fit for 55 package is of course a major challenge for Poland. It is also an amazing opportunity for our economy to modernise our economy, to transform our energy also through the resources of the European Union that are being launched in this package. We have been in contact with the European Commission since the beginning of the process, which began for good in December 2020, but actually we have already made our demands, our ideas for the reform of the ETS, to improve EU climate policy, taking into account the important factors that you are talking about, such as the competitiveness of industry. I am pleased that at least part of our demands has been taken into account in this proposal, actually in this set of proposals that the Commission has drawn up. I can mention, for example. about the preservation of distribution elements, which are extremely important for us under the ETS Directive, in the form of a solidarity pool for countries such as Poland or about the increase of the Modernization Fund, which we use to fund the transformation of our energy. Another important element for us in terms of ensuring the competitiveness of industry was the preservation of free allowances for this industry and the introduction of a border tax on emissions. And that's what's in the package, too. There have been rehearsals... Earlier this week, I participated informally in discussions with environmental ministers. I can note that some Member States continue to present such a line, trying to shift the cost of this transition from richer Member States to poorer Member States. This was also very clear in previous discussions. I can confirm that this was not in the Commission's proposal. The methodology used to define targets for Member States in sectors not covered by the ETS remains very similar to the current one. Another positive element is, of course, the creation of a new fund that will address the problems of energy poverty, which is an incredibly important challenge precisely related to the transformation of our energy. But, as the Member has said, there are also certain risks that could affect the increase in energy poverty. One such element is the introduction of transport and building sectors into the trading system, which is of course our concern because the poorest social groups that use the most emission fuel today would be the most burdened with new charges in such a system. Therefore, we cannot agree to any solutions that will take place at the expense of the weakest social groups. For many months we have consistently stressed that this transformation must be carried out in a fair way, in a way that does not make economic conditions worse in regions and in social groups. Therefore, we will seek alternative solutions for such a system or measures to mitigate the effects of such a system. Of course, the opportunity to mitigate these effects is the fund I have already mentioned, a new fund that would mitigate the increase in the risk of energy poverty. The European Commission has put forward such a proposal. According to this proposal, Poland is the largest beneficiary of this fund. This, of course, does not resolve all our doubts about this package, but we are now carefully examining this proposal and we will present appropriate solutions that will further improve what has been presented by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u192	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u193	Minister! Thank you for these explanations. I just wanted to ask you about the gas energy. We're getting out of coal. How is gas energy treated in this package? We've got investments, we're building Baltic Pipe, we're building gas connections in municipalities, so that people who have the opportunity can connect to it after building such a gas network. How is gas treated in this package, which is very ambitious? Can we now consider gas as a transitional fuel? If we want to have a stable energy system, we need to have some kind of energy source that will not depend on the wind, on the sun, but will be stable. How is nuclear energy treated in this context? This may not be the coming years (the bell), but how do these two energy products come into being in the context of this package? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u194	Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u195	Thank you very much for this question about energy mix, about the role of gas in this transformation. I think that, as the Member rightly pointed out, gas is a necessary transitional fuel during the transition period. Today there are no technological solutions that we could use on a large scale when it comes to the storage of energy produced from windmills or photovoltaic panels, which we could use in a period when these renewable sources are not working. Therefore, the role of traditional solutions, such as gas, is to provide us with electricity when renewable energy sources are not working. It is also extremely important that we can ensure that our energy is transformed in this respect, so that we can provide adequate resources for investments in new gas capacities, for diversification of sources. The Member mentioned key projects for us, such as Baltic Pipe. Unfortunately, the Commission proposes to increase the funds, as I said, to the Modernisation Fund, but at the same time to exclude gas from this fund. At this informal Council meeting there were numerous votes, votes from many Member States, among others. from our region, but not only for which gas is a necessary step towards climate neutrality, to the transformation of the economy. This problem is not only about Poland, which is why I hope that we will be able to win better solutions together with other Member States than what was proposed by the Commission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. That was the last question. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider information on the implementation of vaccination against COVID-19 and their promotion among those who have not yet been vaccinated, and the current and future actions of the government on this subject, which is proposed by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, PPS, Together, Spring of Robert Biedron). I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I have the honour to provide a justification for today's current information. We are at the threshold of another wave of COVID-19 disease due to the Delta mutation, which is much more contagious than the original virus. There's no need to kid yourself. We see what happens in neighbouring countries, in other countries, including the UK. The virus has already arrived there and we can actually start counting down to another wave of disease, and along with it subsequent tragic deaths, another collapse of the health care system, perhaps lockdown, closure of certain sectors of the economy, and with this bankruptcy, loss of income or loss of employment. The only effective way to fight pandemics is with vaccines. Let's face it: everything else is half-measures, ad hoc solutions or actions that only slow down the inevitable crisis. What should we do? Vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate again. The point is that in this case, the government seems to stumble at its own feet at best, and at worst, to deliberately neglect the subject. Vaccinations started in Poland at the end of December 2020. Everything was going on in a very big chaos. Even though we waited for the first delivery of vaccines, we weren't ready for them. The vaccination centres were organized quickly, often without preparation and consultation with local authorities. As far as vaccination points are concerned, reliable analyses have not been prepared in terms of their efficiency and coverage, which has made more than 73 000 obsolete to date. unused doses of vaccines. The determination of the order of vaccination of individual groups was often unreasonable, e.g. The scientific staff, who had been working remotely for a long time, was vaccinated in front of trade workers, who throughout the pandemic period, including in its most dramatic moments, were exposed daily to a large number of visitors to shops or service points. The Polish Economic Institute has examined the attitude towards vaccines against the coronavirus of Poles and Poles. The results are hardly optimistic. Those who are determined to receive the vaccine are a minority of Polish society. Up to 27% The responses indicated: I definitely don't want to vaccinate, 19% answered that it did not want to vaccinate, and 18% Says it's hard to say. These proportions vary greatly with age. Among the youngest, between 18 and 34 years of age, 77% The subjects do not want to tell vaccinations: yes. We are still very far from achieving collective immunity. The government also neglected information policy, without responding to the growing pro-epidemics who questioned, openly criticized vaccinations as such, spreading disinformation and fear. In fact, it is even worse, because the government is subsidising the activities of certain entities which openly agitate against the national vaccination and vaccination programme as such, which was awarded jointly by Deputy Minister Gliński in response to the interpellation of the Members and Members of the Party. A completely non-existent topic for the government is to investigate the causes of non-implantation, especially when this is not because of will but because of limitations. It goes on for example. vaccination of persons living in rural areas without access to public transport, which prevents them from coming to vaccination. [[Don't lie to me.]] Even if transport is organized, it is often forgotten that no one is helping these people to get out of the house or into the car. [[Why are you lying?]] Add to this a picture of a poorly prepared law that hinders the achievement of the objectives of the national vaccination programme. [[You want the minister to drive and vaccinate?]] On the one hand, the government encourages vaccination and includes in the programme the possibility of organising vaccinations at the workplace and incentives to avoid being restricted in the case of vaccination and on the other hand vaccinations are voluntary, so employers cannot enforce them from employees, even if this is necessary for the safety of the work of others. They do not even have grounds for processing data in the form of information on vaccination, which makes many employers and entrepreneurs providing services related to pandemic limits of persons afraid to verify and collect vaccination data. Here, too, the question is: How many people have used the form of vaccination at their workplace? How are these figures presented? All these mistakes make it more and more distrustful of the vaccination programme and it is becoming increasingly difficult to convince unconvinced individuals to inoculate themselves. It is worth saying that vaccinations are an important element that protects all of us. The increase in diseases will result again, as last year, in restricting access to health care for all, and already we have backlogs in the treatment of Poles and Poles after previous waves and thousands of patients with complications. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Shame on you. Shame on you to lie like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u198	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, the representative of the Government for the national vaccination programme against the SARS-CoV-2 virus of Mr Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! It is my honor to present this information. I would like to start by apologizing because in the first half of the information I will be representing the Council of Ministers, in the second part, due to the shift in the hours of our deliberations, the Council of Ministers will be represented by Minister Goławska, Deputy Minister of Health. If you would allow me, I would start by correcting some of the information that has appeared in your statement. I'm assuming it was involuntary, but still misconstrued information. In a rather dramatic tone, the Member presented the whole situation around the national vaccination programme, so let us refer to the facts. I am based on a report prepared by CBOS, which was published at the end of May 2021. As for the assessment of the national vaccination programme, which I am about to talk about, it was positively assessed by 71% respondents who have assessed this programme very well or well. As far as preparedness for vaccination is concerned, the attitude of Poles in this area has changed considerably since autumn. r., when really intimidatingly few Poles were interested in vaccinations. Today - here I also use the results of CBOS studies, but other centres show similar results - 70% Poles are already vaccinated or willing to inoculate, while about 28% He says he doesn't want to inoculate himself, and that's actually the problem that we all have to deal with. On the other hand, what is important, I think, and what cannot be forgotten, is a broader background. I am referring specifically to the attitude of adult Poles to vaccination. Unfortunately, we do not have this tradition. The best evidence is flu vaccination, for which Poland is at the end of the list of countries that carry out such vaccinations in adults. So we, apart from organisational, formal and all other challenges in building a national vaccination programme, also faced a challenge to break this distrust. Of course, there's still a lot to do, but let's stick to the facts. There's 71% right there. respondents who well or very well assess the implementation of the national vaccination programme, and at the moment there is 70% Poles who want to inoculate or are already vaccinated. These are just facts and they're also worth talking about. As regards the disposal, I would like to remind you that Poland is still among the countries of the European Union which have the lowest rate of disposal. The disposal is an unavoidable side effect of vaccination. Of course, we would like no vaccine to be wasted, but it is due to mechanical actions or, as a result of, I don't know, power failure or other events, any vaccine is wasted or disposed of. However, let me remind you that we are absolutely in a group of countries of the European Union where the smallest percentage of vaccines are disposed of. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk in detail about the national vaccination programme, because the government has been preparing for this programme since autumn last year. This programme has been consulted socially, politically, by a resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers and has been implemented since the end of last year. An agent has also been appointed under this programme. I have the honour to perform this function. This was particularly important at the beginning, when a number of actions and work had to be coordinated, and a number of institutions had to simply work together within the government so that this program could function, be prepared first and then function. We have created a whole ICT system that makes it easy to register for vaccinations, and then pass this vaccination and obtain a certificate of vaccination, i.e. so-called. COVID passport. We created a whole organizational system, thanks to which a network of over 6,000. vaccination sites run by very different operators may be supplied with vaccines on an ongoing basis. But the State or the Member of the Commission in its question particularly wanted to draw attention to the issue of promoting and breaking barriers or to this reluctance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it over? Impossible. [[Impossible.]] [[I don't think so. Something about that time...]] [[It shouldn't be six minutes, it should be ten minutes.]] Five more minutes. Good. So I'm going to say a few words about the measures that have been taken to promote the programme and which have had specific effects, because this leap, in terms of interest and acceptance for vaccination, from thirty-several to 70%. It's a fact. A campaign was launched in December 2020 and we are in a hurry. The law firm and the Ministry of Health launched integrated communication activities long before the population vaccinations started. Several dozen specialists in medicine and epidemiology have been involved in the formulation of educational and information messages. Experts have provided the most important information on vaccination and the benefits of collective immunity through traditional and online media. A number of measures have been taken to bring the issue of vaccination closer to all those who were interested in vaccinations and had different types of concerns and concerns. With the increasing supply of vaccines, we have systematically launched the next stages of the profective campaign. The challenge was to design a set of tools that would make it possible to reach citizens on a historically large scale and, in parallel, to guarantee an adequate level of credibility, i.e. to create a universal campaign. All these activities have been preceded by in-depth research. The quantitative and qualitative analyses defined not only the shape of graphic creations, but also the substantive directions of the campaign. The important results of the campaign were already visible after the first 3 months of its duration. The number of volunteers then increased by almost 30%. That's what they are, among other things. the results of the CBOS study, which I already quoted. Recently we have launched another edition of the profrequency and information campaign Mon. Last simple. This campaign is based primarily on images of famous athletes, led by Robert Lewandowski, Robert Kubica and actors. In short, we wanted to reach out with information and encourage as many Poles to immunize, using the popularity of these very recognizable people and trust in them. Both the campaign and the campaign's last simple mix of media and all the communication channels available on the market were used. Uninsulated people were reached via traditional media, such as newspapers, radios, television, but also digital channels - through portals, social media. Educational materials and as a consequence promotional materials appeared in 200 press titles, it was a total of almost 0.5 thousand. publications. More than 145 radio and television stations have been constantly broadcasting information spots since January. [[But forward, Minister.]] [[Please don't disturb me. What's that even?]] [[Voice from the hall: This is the Sejm.]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mrs... Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. [[Voice from the room: You can write an email.]] But don't lecture each other in the O.R. either, okay? I'm asking you to calm down. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] I ask the left and right side of the room to remain calm. Ladies and gentlemen, we have used all available communication channels, and we have enriched the information and pro-active campaign with various kinds of projects to increase... And these channels are still working - I answer your question. We've reinforced the campaign with various actions I'm about to talk about. First of all, since the start of the national vaccination program, we have been fighting disinformation and fake news. A special team has been created that supports social media and any queries on a daily basis. So far, 21,000 have been served. threads and references of a disinformation nature. It's a very big job, it's worth appreciating. Local authorities have been involved in popularization and promotion of vaccinations. The competitions for local governments have been launched, which engage in a pro-active and information campaign. Self-governments receive very attractive rewards and gratifications for inoculating an adequate number of residents. Competitions have been launched as part of a national vaccination programme, including the State Fire and Volunteer Fire Department. The competitions are also carried out by the rural hostels' circles. The vaccine lottery (The Bell) was finally launched and a number of other actions were taken. Finally, all I can say is that for all these actions - because there was a charge that the challenge of promoting vaccination was taken seriously - about 360 million PLN was spent. Television - over PLN 8 million, radio - PLN 9 million, outdoor - PLN 16 million, press - nearly PLN 2 million, Internet - over PLN 7 million, other activities - over PLN 11 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge undertaking that continues all the time, and I urge everyone to join us without exception over political divisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u200	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. I wanted to say that a lot of people have signed up, so if you'd like everyone to ask a question, I'd like to offer you one minute and let you... [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] Good. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[And how much did it write down?]] Okay, time - two minutes. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I will begin by thanking the Minister, the Minister, to the government services, for their very effective measures in the area of vaccination. Of course, nothing is ever perfect, you can always do something better, but statistics, ladies and gentlemen, do not lie. We are absolutely leaders in the European Union within the possibilities we have in terms of vaccination. [[We're all leaders.]] To be honest, when this topic of current information came up, I approached it with great hope. Yes, because we need to talk about this, we need to think about how to further encourage society to have more people vaccinated, so that we can fully exploit the potential that we have prepared, and that we can actually continue to maintain this rate of vaccination that has been in recent times. Unfortunately, I look at the honourable Member, and I would like to say that with disappointment and regret. Really, my fellow Member. By the way, I invite you, if not to attend the Health Committee, at least to attend the Health Committee meetings. We have talked about vaccination many times, I assure you: much more substantive than you. Your friends at the club are discussing things in a factual way, not always agreeing with the government, of course, but speaking of certain facts. Because, Commissioner, let's talk about facts, and you were talking about some fake news, some completely untrue things. It is worth listening to your fellow Members and having a factual, wise (Bell) discussion, not just a political discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u202	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 5 January, at the Health Committee meeting, we agreed that the vaccination programme was a priority. We talked about reliable knowledge, vaccines and the promotion of vaccinations. Then you said, Minister, that the campaign to promote vaccination is large-scale. Then you promised me that I would receive a full strategy, a plan to promote vaccination. We're seven months later. It didn't happen. You make a lot of promises, you don't make much money, and that's the way it is with everything. [[Applause]] You forget that building trust in vaccination against COVID-19 is a huge challenge for all of us, and above all for a government that is responsible for the health safety of citizens, for a government that loses the fight for vaccination and vaccination. The fourth wave is coming to Poland, a very contagious variant of Delta, and social responsibility is at an extremely low level. What are you going to do about it, Minister? Still a large percentage of Poles and Poles, first of all, does not believe in pandemics, second, does not want to see the failure of the health care system and, third, does not care about the health and life of other people. In the media, mostly social media, there are still huge amounts of untrue, huge amounts of stupidity and huge amounts of manipulation. How are you going to effectively oppose these lies? How are you going to effectively fight fake news? What the government is doing in the case, e.g. training the right attitudes in society? Since the new school year e.g. You're gonna include an education on vaccination? What about the construction of personalized communication, but to be adapted to individual audience groups? Why aren't you making full use of public television? Along with lies, manipulations, beside the attack on the opposition and the attack on Donald Tusk, there's certainly plenty of room for information... [[I haven't heard that...]] ...to fight anti-vaccine propaganda, to build trust (the bell) for vaccination. This is today's absolute priority, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u204	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[None.]] Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a fundamental question for the government when it will finally start fighting decisively against organized anti-vaccine movements. They go everywhere, their attitudes are even sometimes presented here in the Seym. The vaccination status of the population today in Poland indicates that it is the anti-vaccine movements that have a greater impact on the vaccination process than the government. I wanted to ask you about the government's actions against anti-vaccine movements: do they even exist? [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] Because if they exist, they are so delicate and invisible, and even afraid that I don't see them, and you don't lack courage, because how you had to close hospitals - even when you couldn't say goodbye to a loved one or when fathers couldn't participate in the birth of their children - you had the courage to stop the planned procedures. You were brave then, but if you have to fight anti-vaccine movements, I don't see it. [[Applause]] And that's the basic question. [[Voice from the room: What were you doing?]] I think if it goes to the fourth wave and we don't have access to oncology again, to scheduled procedures... [[Voice from the room: What nonsense.]] ...the guilty ones will equally be anti-vaccine movements and the government (Motion in the Chamber) because today really has a lot of time for this. [[Applause]] I don't think you speak enough in the public media that you control... [[Voice from the room: political, not public.]] ...that vaccinations and antibiotics are the greatest achievement of medicine, including in civilization. Before the age of vaccination, people were terrified of infectious diseases, so-called. Pestilence. Today we are theoretically free from it. Not enough knowledge is passed on to me, and in an appropriate way, to the public media, which you have a huge influence on. Not enough reliable information is given to all these people (the bell) who are indecisive, and about these people You have to fight tonight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first question we would like to get an answer to is what the government is going to do with the next predicted wave of epidemics. This question is very valid because specialists predict the fourth wave, which will be coming soon, perhaps even at the end of the holiday. Unfortunately, Poland has a very low level of implantation, and in this respect we are at the gray end in the European Union. It is not very clear that the government has, I would say, a rational idea to speed up vaccination, one that would give impetus to the fact that citizens really want to vaccinate. So I think today the government should tell us very clearly whether we are facing another lockdown due to the negligence of vaccination, whether we are going to close down the industry or if we are going to fail. I ask this today, Minister, because from day to day - just as you used to do - you can prepare at most dinner, but it is not possible to manage the state and organize the lives of citizens. Already today, we should know how you will react, what it will look like and what citizens should be prepared for depending on the level of infection. Today, the Minister spoke very much about the past, but we all remember that the reaction to the epidemic was like uncontrolled chaos, not the reaction of a serious state, a serious administration. Many errors were: closing and opening, opening, closing. Then the vaccinations came. Unfortunately, vaccinations were used by the propaganda government, although attention had to be paid to the lives and health of citizens. And today we see the effect. Poland was almost at the gray end in the European Union. 20th place is just a shame. So I'm asking for a specific answer. Firstly, it is a question of stimulating vaccination. What will these ideas be, and with what intensity will they be implemented? What are the alternatives to a significant increase in vaccination levels? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have a lockdown waiting, or do we have a lockdown waiting, or do you have another plan? Citizens, entrepreneurs should know that already today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate again - full consent. But at the same time there is an appeal to the total opposition: do not disturb, help or lie. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, that's right.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is not only that for more than a year we have been attacked by such a terribly dramatic coronavirus, it is still total opposition during this period, it seems, works according to the principle: the worse, the better. You can't do that. [[Applause]] This is about the health and life of Poles, all Poles. Constant criticism, black-sightedness, desiccation... [[A voice from the room: True!]] ...these are not methods to encourage vaccination. From the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, there is a national vaccination programme... [[Well, you were prepared for every size of the pandemic.]] ...he works in a professional, very effective way. He was constantly accelerating, and he was actually accelerating enthusiastically. Here's a round of applause and congratulations to the creators of this program. Of course, there were temporary problems, but this was only due to the distribution and failure to comply with the agreements of the European Commission. Indeed, it is now slowing down, although it is difficult to explain, because there is hard evidence that vaccines are a blessing. This is a real investment in health. We practically all know the evidence. It's not like there's any black pox in the world anymore, we don't have Heiny-Medin disease, tetanus, cockle, diphtheria, tuberculosis just because of the vaccinations. At present, a very concrete and salvific proof is that people who have been vaccinated even after being infected with other variants of coranavir do not die, have no complications, are virtually not hospitalized, and the course of the disease is light in their case. The vaccine next to antibiotics is the greatest, timeless achievement of medicine. And a question for the Minister. The proposal for cross vaccination is being considered in many European countries. German experts, researchers at the University of Oxford, propose cross-vaccination by administering the second dose of mRNA vaccine (The Bell), i.e. Pfizer and BioNTech and Moderna to individuals vaccinated with the first vector dose of AstraZeneca. In their opinion, this can strengthen immunity and cause even more effective defence against the coronavirus. The question to the Minister: Is such a concept being considered in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rajmund Miller is absent. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u211	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you the following questions. The media reports that the government is considering introducing restrictions for non-vaccine individuals. Please inform me very kindly whether this concerns restrictions on public transport or access to certain facilities. Why don't you come up with another ban on the woods? Second line. I'd like to ask what it's like to get the kids back to school after the summer break. Has hybrid science been under consideration since September? That's another line. I would like to ask the government if the child protection vaccination against COVID-19, carried out under the national vaccination programme, is a medical experiment, as the Ombudsman said. What did the government do about this outrageous statement by the child's spokesperson? Did he react? Did he give a position on this matter, and what does this issue look like? Here's the next thing. I would like to ask the government if Poles returning from foreign trips must have proof of vaccination. Because the president of NIK, Mr. Marian Banaś, just wrote that he was detained at the airport his son and he doesn't know why. And my son was coming back from a foreign trip. And as a result, I'm asking you kindly to inform me... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...or Poles returning from foreign trips... [[Voice from the room: How did you...]] ...they must be vaccinated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u213	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Podlaskie Voivodship - the lowest rate of people vaccinated. Yesterday, Prime Minister Morawiecki went to Podlaskie Voivodeship. Unfortunately, he was afraid to meet with the farmers, he went to the fruit farm, because after the so-called. Five of you have nothing to talk about. But, thank God, the housewives gave the Prime Minister cream - I think he brought it to Warsaw for fat cats and that's enough. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, oh, oh, oh.]] Mr. Morawiecki was already saying goodbye to the pandemic last year, and what did he say yesterday? What have we done at this difficult time, which I hope is coming to an end, even though we are also talking about the fourth wave? We must be careful of this, we should vaccinate ourselves, but this second and third wave was very bad for Poland. In fact, I expected such words from the Prime Minister. They were very bad: mortality in the first half of 2021 is an increase in deaths of more than 20%. Lubuskie, Warmińsko-Mazurskie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie - about 1/3. 59,000. More Poles died than in the same time of 2020. In Podlaskie Voivodship - 19,5% vaccinations, in Grayev, Tuberculosis. There isn't one municipality where the level of discharge would exceed 50% And the prime minister speaks laconically, several seconds, about vaccinations. But there was no time for lies. He says that cities such as Tykocin, Szchuczyn, Kolno, Black Białostocka did not develop - he lied everywhere. The Prime Minister of the Polish Government uses a lie at every meeting where he performs. We're waiting for some real information from the Prime Minister. He cannot be the prime minister of this government because he should take care of Poland (the bell) and not cares. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[A stir in the courtroom, some of the Members are hitting the desks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u214	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom and please don't... You're welcome. Please, now, Mrs... Let the Member ask the question calmly. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a very difficult situation - everyone, not only Poland, but also Europe, not to say: the whole world. We've been fighting the epidemic for over a year and a half, all of us. And we here should be able to talk about it together and communicate. Ladies and gentlemen! We can't fight each other. The vaccination program is something that's a success. all of us - not only governments, but also local governments, health professionals, who are very active in this area. Please remember with great sacrifice how many subjects want to do vaccinations. The state in this podium speaks as if this vaccination programme and these vaccinations were carried out by the government, not by a large number of health professionals. Minister! I have this question: What is the issue of expanding the catalogue of employees who may be eligible for vaccination? As I recall, they were only doctors in phase one. Then we introduced into this area, into this catalog, including the nurses, the paramedics, the diagnostics. I have a question. Can they also qualify today, e.g. Last year of medicine students? From this point on, I would like to thank the formation of the Territorial Defence Army very much. I remember you were criticizing the uprising of the Territorial Defence Army. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Member. Today's the army. [[Applause]] They are very much involved in the fight against the epidemic, as well as in vaccinations. I myself used vaccinations at a facility operated by the Territorial Defense Army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u216	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u217	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! The question is, have you been diagnosing the reasons why Poles do not want to vaccinate themselves? What are the main ones - is it a matter of fear, is it a question of complicated access to vaccination, lack of knowledge, duplication of fake news by various organizations, some difficult stories that have happened to these people? Because if we diagnose the reasons, it will be easier in the social campaign to reach out to these people and explain that vaccinations are simply necessary and safe. My second question concerns fake news and very strong, well-organized anti-vaccine groups. Do you plan such a reliable educational campaign that would be conducted e.g. in public media and which would dispel any concerns and fake news that are growing in social media every day, as well as traditional media? I would add that, unfortunately, also Members sitting with us in this House duplicate such fake news. There was a meeting recently held in the sanitarium team, where the spokesperson for the rights of the child spoke about an experiment on children. It seems to me that such events require a very strong reaction from the government and management of the club, because Members cannot bring such information into the world. I also wanted to ask you how you estimate how many people will be vaccinated in the fall when the children return to school when school starts. Does this guarantee us minimum safety, but are there any contingency plans for introducing remote science, closing individual sectors of the economy, possibly introducing a French variant in Poland, i.e. allowing only people vaccinated for collective communication, theatres, cinemas or other kinds of institutions and public places? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u218	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Five of the least vaccinated municipalities, such as those with a full dose of less than 20%, unfortunately lies in the Małopolska voivodship, Tatra and Nowotar powiats. It is Black Dunajec, White Dunajec, Lipnica the Great, Szaflary and Apples. Nowytarski and Limanowski counties also have the lowest resistance rates. Unfortunately, these figures, these facts are very bad news for Małopolska, especially in the context of the fourth wave. Our region, which stands in culture, tourism, has been very hard experienced by the pandemic. We're afraid that this will happen again, that we'll find out again that we're the epicenter, and that we'll be touched by further sharpenings. What kind of action is the government really taking point in these municipalities, in those counties where there is such a dramatically low desire to inoculate? These mechanisms, the lottery plus these incentives for municipalities, seem to be very weak tools. So I have a question about whether the government is working on any ideas. Perhaps there are stronger instruments that could be used - such as those that start operating in France - to avoid the fourth wave or not as difficult for the region as the previous ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u220	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u221	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I will also begin by thanking you - thank you to Minister Dworczyk for the voluntary but very well organised vaccinations, and that the government is doing everything in its power to encourage these vaccinations, and wherever it has a response from local authorities and organizations, it can carry out these vaccinations effectively and quickly. This is how it happens, among other things. In my district, you're going to tell the Gorillas. Anyone who wants to vaccinate can quickly get a convenient date. These vaccinations are done very quickly, you don't have to wait for free dates. On the other hand, there are areas of Poland where people even call me with questions about how to do it, where to go to inoculate themselves. So there's a lot to do, but in the field, because the minister isn't going anywhere with a syringe and he's not going to vaccinate. Ladies and gentlemen! These are countries as parliamentarians from all over Poland to work in their territory. But no, you're just focusing on criticism, screaming. For the time being, there have really been a few substantive, good speeches in this debate, which have been very concerned about this subject. We should all lean on it with care, because ahead of us, all this indicates, the fourth wave of disease. I check daily statistics from all over the world and really the number of diseases in the UK, but not only is it appalling. And the state in this criticism is so obsessed with you that on the one hand you would like to introduce a duty, punishment, and on the other hand, a Member from the same club can talk about the fact that there are some restrictions when they come back from abroad, and ask what it means and how anything can be required. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a very difficult (the bell) and after a difficult time. Let us finally start working together on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u222	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u223	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The State of Law and Justice did not understand anything - the statement of my predecessor, who scum of the opposition. [[Voice from the room: Encourages.]] Why haven't you been working with us since January? The government is responsible for the vaccination. It's a country you can't accept with dignity. You can't talk about how it's gonna be in the future. The Minister was talking about statistics. After all, you have to work by looking forward and leave the statistics to others. No decent raises for health workers. Until recently, we called for it from this tribune. You're thanking them today, and where were you when you had to take care of the paramedics, the nurses? The clock is ticking and the rate of vaccination is dropping - these are the words of the Minister of Health. The fiasco of the vaccination program. This is your failure because you're doing something completely different and another proxy e-mail leaks out! [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] We have the lowest, small percentage of implantation. The need is 85.90% And we have about 15,5 million people vaccinated. Plenipotentiaries are called. Where were any words about how plenipotentiaries would be accounted for when it came to higher levels of implantation? Podkarpacie and Małopolska - the lowest level of implantation in the country. What did the plenipotentiaries do? What did the government attorney do? The scandalous words of a child's attorney that vaccination of children is an experiment. What are you ruling, Minister, what have you done to talk to the spokesperson for the rights of the child? Because those words hurt every step of the way. The spokesperson was appointed by you. You say and the government is sure there will be another lockdown, an increase in numbers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the vaccination measures, the concept of restrictions on economic sectors or specific regions of the country? Thank you very much. The real leader we're in the middle of... Thank you very much, Member. ...and that's total failure and excessive deaths. Thank you very much. What are you gonna do to make sure there's no excess deaths? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u224	Thank you very much, Member. Once again, I ask for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left. [[Voice from the room: Golden thoughts...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u225	High Izbo! We have asked for this information today because the situation is bad and it is the numbers that show unambiguously. At this rate, we're not gonna be able to raise ourselves in time to achieve collective immunity, and that should be our common goal. We feel that the government is standing still, and in this case, it just gave up. And he gave up because in your eyes, ladies and gentlemen, we see a lot of fear - but not fear of the coronavirus, just fear of the anti-vaccines, even in your ranks. This morning, in this room, we had a situation where you didn't pay any attention to your friend at the club who was sitting here ostentatiously without a mask, just to suck up to the anti-vaccine community. We were talking about money that comes from public funds to organizations that spread harmful anti-vaccine propaganda. This is the reality we're in. You can't beat a virus when you see that fear in your eyes. We know what's working. We know what works, ladies and gentlemen, we see this in the last few days in France - a clear, unambiguous saying that if there is a fourth wave, if there is a tightening of the situation and further restrictions, then those who have been vaccinated will have the opportunity to continue to use all the things to which we are now, at the top of the summer, getting used to how quickly and which may not be available again in a few weeks. You just have to have the courage, ladies and gentlemen, you have to have the courage to say it clearly and unambiguously. Because we know that when the French authorities said this clearly and unambiguously, hundreds of thousands of new volunteers appeared very quickly to inoculate themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those who aren't here today, because you know as well as I do that the vaccination campaign stops and that with this biggest challenge... Thank you very much, sir. ...Mr. Dworczyk seems to have no idea or courage to cope. Thank you very much. I would point out that, at least, from the discussion of this information in the Seym, he just escaped before the questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Pandemic is the drama of the whole world. Many countries struggle against this incredible enemy. But the fight in these countries is very different from that in Poland. With us, the opposition is trying to raise political capital in this tragedy... [[What nonsense are you talking about?]] ...criticizes all the government's actions... [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] ...can't see that Poland is doing quite well on the map of the world when it comes to fighting the pandemic. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Really?]] The same applies to population vaccinations, which are carried out according to the programme planned by the Polish government and systematically, consistently implemented. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, after six months, we have more than 40%. of the implanted population. Of course, we all wish there were more, but there were many obstacles on the road. [[But there are no lines.]] We remember the lack of vaccines that were not carried out in accordance with the agreements. I think we should all lean on this problem and, together, do everything together to ensure that these vaccinations are carried out as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we thanked all those who carried out and carried out these vaccinations here. One Member mentioned that, apart from thanks, we have nothing to offer, for example, health workers. I would like to remind you that it was during the fight against the pandemic that health workers received financial support, additional salaries... [[And they're protesting because of it.]] ...in the amount of PLN 10 billion last year, and this year more than several billion PLN. It's specific money... [[That's not true, that's not true.]] ...which go to health care workers. I think that we should all treat this situation in such a clear way, because this is our common cause (the Bell) and our common responsibility. Thank you very much. And I have a question for the Minister. [[It's too late.]] What is the issue of vaccination of children, what are the indicators now, and what is the issue of vaccination among people with disabilities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u228	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! High attendance is a prerequisite for obtaining the effect of vaccination against COVID-19. Thanks to this, you can gain immunity in so many people that it will guarantee the cessation of transmission of infection. My question concerns vaccination of people in a homeless crisis. How are vaccinations in this group? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm inoculated. Who among you in this room on the right is vaccinated, raise your hand up. [[Me.]] [[Voice from the room: Please, everyone.]] Madam. One, two, three. What's this? [[...healthy people.]] That's not enough. But do you know why that is, ladies and gentlemen? Because this party was used as a political tool... [[Voice from the hall: Do not point that finger at me.]] ...conspiracy theories around the Smoleńsk disaster and raised the entire social layer of its followers, [[Applause]] who feed conspiracy theories... [[Voice from the room: The Member is lying.]] ...today they believe in conspiracy theories around vaccination. And that's your responsibility for using conspiracy theories in current politics, and today you can't handle conspiracy theories around vaccination. [[Applause]] It turns out that in the last 30 days 79% social media entries were negative for vaccination. This is because your helpless country cannot block accounts generating these entries. When Donald Trump's account was blocked, the world didn't collapse, but you don't have the courage to block accounts that keep transmitting fake news, expose public opinion through social media, because you're afraid that your campaign resources will be depleted. This is a crime in Polish society. What's next? The cost of campaigning in social media, the cost of reaching one citizen is currently about PLN 1.6. That's how much you spend on this campaign that's missed, badly targeted when it comes to gender, badly targeted, even when it comes to age. That's why she's so ineffective. That's why I'm asking the Minister's question because Mr. Dworczyk has escaped, maybe he needs to write some e-mails about it. I will ask the Minister when there will be a forced vaccination of specific groups in Poland. When will the buses be vaccinated in Poland? And when finally it will be possible to enforce (the bell) certificates from vaccinated persons and refuse certain services, e.g. In bars or cinemas? When are you gonna do it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. There's no envoy. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The whole world has lived in a different reality for a year and a half. We all held our breath. There's a coalition saying that we're doing everything wrong, denying it, everything's wrong, but it doesn't give us any alternative. I have great respect and Poles have respect for the government because at a difficult time he passed the exam. I'm saying this as a healer. [[Yeah, calling off the pandemic.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I survived clinical death, and a lot of people were dying in front of me, and you're just denying it and you don't like it. How can you do that? A little respect for the man and those who stood and held hands with us. [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] They said everything was gonna be okay. The drugs were delivered on time, everything worked in extremes. Doctors and nurses didn't walk, they just ran with us. Does that make you laugh? Does that make you laugh? [[No.]] Then go to the ICU and see people die. [[I was.]] You were in the ICU, weren't you? [[Voice from the room: But we know.]] You had a clinical death, didn't you? [[We want to give them money for it, you know?]] Don't talk nonsense. [[No, I was.]] Have respect for those who work, those who refund all matters related to the COVID and who care about the patient. [[Voice from the hall: But why didn't you pay them?]] You have no respect for anyone and nothing. Calm down, please. I'm just saying one thing: less criticism, more cooperation and more respect for man. [[But why didn't you give them money for health care? Why didn't you give them money for it?]] And above all, if you don't like something, it's one rule... I'm asking you to calm down. ...give an alternative, show a strategy, and you have no strategy but negation. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The government had a pandemic canceled.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u234	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. Is there a Member? There is no Member. [[It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, ……]] I'm sorry, I haven't seen the Member. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u235	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to ask you, Minister, what is your strategy for the regions of Poland in which there is the least prominence. Besides, are you considering or perhaps using this method to apply to workplaces where health promotion and medical care could be used at the same time in a convenient manner on the site for vaccination? I believe that workplaces are interested in the fact that as few people as possible simply leave work or have breaks at work. I think it would be a great deal of encouragement for workplaces to facilitate access to on-the-spot vaccination at work. Is it practiced? If not, consider this possibility. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u236	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, today we must thank the health care. But we also need to thank the local government: the mobs, the presidents and the mayors. They're the ones who stood up to the task. They're the ones who've always been effective and effective. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister what financial resources you have allocated to the local government, which conducts this action fairly, courageously and effectively. You are talking about many promises: the Prime Minister, the Government promises. In April, you promised non-medical workers a one-time COVID supplement of 5,000. Evil for helping fight the coronavirus. Medical secretaries - more than 20 people - write to me that they have been demanding that this one-off benefit be paid from April. Are you talking about respect for health care? That's what respect looks like. They write, they appeal. Minister! I appeal to you, and I would like to know why these medical secretaries from Regional Specialist Hospital No. 2 in Jastrzębie-Zdrój did not receive this supplement until today. Please be informed in writing when they will receive this supplement, how many allowances for medical secretaries and medical staff were paid in the Silesian Voivodeship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u238	Thank you, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. There is no Member. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u239	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to refer to the causes of anti-vaccine trends in Poland. The opposition state at the beginning of the pandemic denied all government activities including lockdown, including... [[Because you didn't listen to us in January...]] Whatever the government would do, it was wrong. I've been inoculating patients, working at POZ. Health service really responds to all government activities and in POZ there is full mobilisation all the time. What was the scream that temporary hospitals were being created? I want to move on to something else. By performing the second vaccination, we are immediately able to print a certificate of full vaccination as doctors. On the other hand, the EU COVID certificate facilitates the movement of citizens of the European Union between countries. It is a new document, so-called. the COVID passport, which aims to eliminate differences in the extent to which different countries apply the restrictions in the Union. It is also a model of documents confirming the status of a person who may cross borders. I have a question: How can I get an EU COVID certificate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u240	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arthur Łącki is not here. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the media, there was information about the sale of vaccines to Ukraine, Greece, or even Australia. Have specific decisions been taken? Have we sold anything yet? Are we gonna sell something back? How much? Second question. In Poland there is such a strange, unique creation in Europe, which is called a joint committee of government and episcopate. For years, representatives of various governments have been on the street. Batorego 5 in Warsaw translate from what governments do for the Polish Catholic Church. So I have a question: Did the government organize a committee meeting on vaccination? Has the government held a meeting with bishops to ask them what the Polish Church is going to do about the vaccination of Poles? Did someone from the government dare to lobby for the Polish clergy to become involved in the promotion of vaccination among the so-called. Faithful? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u242	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I'm just gonna say that the vaccination point was created, among other things. for pilgrims on Jasna Gora. Any pilgrim who reaches Jasna Góra can be vaccinated. [[Margaret Prokop-Paczkowska: That is not what I am asking. I'm asking about the joint committee of the government and the episcopate...]] I don't know if there's a vaccination facility at the SLD headquarters. [[Applause]] [[Margaret Prokop-Paczkowska: I am not asking.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are various theories about encouraging societies to vaccinate, leading to an effective fight against the coronavirus. There are different visions in different countries, including Poland. Recently, Mr Tomasz Lenz, Member of the Civic Coalition, has proposed that the 500+ payment be made conditional on vaccination. I don't know why kids would be punished for not wanting to get vaccinated. That's a basic question. This is said by the club's representative who denied the existence of the 500+ programme, its legitimacy and, above all, the source of funding. Few of this, on the part of the Polish People's Party, was proposed to make the increase of health contributions dependent on whether or not someone is vaccinated. So that the opposition here represents the policy of the stick. The government represents the policy of carrots. It's not about saying that we're gonna take something from you, it's about taking something from society, it's about making suggestions that you can gain from it. Vaccines are carried out by qualified persons, ladies and gentlemen. Since mid-June vaccination may be carried out in pharmacies. In April, for the first time in history, pharmacists were qualified. That's what I wanted to ask the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many drugstores do Poles get vaccinated against the coronavirus? How many pharmacists do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u245	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two groups of Poles and Poles who have not been vaccinated. The first is those who want to, but can't, because they live away from the clinic, they have nothing to get to, they're old, they're helpless, they're afraid of officials. Minister, this is the group for which you should organise mobile vaccinations, e.g. at shops in every village, or carry out vaccinations in their homes. We owe them that. The second group is those who don't want to get vaccinated because they don't trust doctors, scientists, the government, generally the system. They are invaded, distrustful, often well organized and hostile. To reach this group, we need people from opposite sides of the barricade to engage. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our business together. Let us take an example from Rzeszow, where the opponents in the presidential election came together and called for vaccination. On this point, let's be together about the health of the nation. Political affiliation should not count. All parties will lose on this, because this is about our voters, some of whom will certainly be offended, but we will gain as a community, because there will be no closure of the economy, education will not be remote, we will not lose the markets, will survive tourism, gastronomy and entertainment. I call for unity over division in terms of vaccination. I address politicians, athletes, priests, TV people and the Internet as a whole: let us not be indifferent to vaccination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u246	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that if we don't get enough vaccination, the fourth wave of COVID-19 is just a matter of time. Therefore, everyone who has a social good at heart should be involved in promoting this benefit. I am sure that the government deserves the full recognition of various promotions, information campaigns, the organisation of mobile vaccination points, as well as the motivation and mobilisation of local authorities. But the younger the yearbooks, the less interest in the program, and also among the elderly, there is a significant decline in activity. Therefore, I think that we should continue to look and expand the catalogue of ideas and effective incentives to get the correct level of vaccination even before the fourth wave arrives and, on the other hand, to have a much stronger message than anti-vaccines. I would like to ask the Minister: Will a third dose of the vaccine be necessary? When will the decisions be made on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u248	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! COVID-19, statistics: the world - 192 million cases, 4130 thousand. Deaths, Poland - 2880 thousand. cases, 75 231 deaths. Ladies and gentlemen, 75,231 people have died. Imagine one funeral that would have to be a very, very long carload. We expect a fourth wave in September when the kids go to school. Option Delta is attacking children right now. Few statistics in Europe show that the prevalence of 15- to 35-year-olds is particularly high. Experts are alerting: we're vaccinating, we're vaccinating, we're vaccinating, and at least for the time being we're going to vaccinate these most vulnerable groups: health care, education workers, teachers and uniformed services. In the summer. At this time, the government missed preparations because it was very busy with the presidential elections. It was more important than human life. We've got two months left. What did we do in that direction? What have you done in this direction? What actions have already been taken? Will specialist cardiology and oncology units be shut down again, where patients could not get help? Is there enough tests? Because that's the basis to diagnose the patient very quickly. I ask you to verify the information on Polish Television, because it really is from the state that these news about false deaths after the adoption of the vaccine came from. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please facilitate access to vaccines in peripheral areas or simply send a vaccine bus there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u250	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Another wave of pandemic is a series of questions and emotions, especially as regards the economy, but also the functioning of citizens in public space. More and more people are taking advantage of the possibility of vaccination, but a large group of citizens remain, due to their health condition. or for other reasons it does not decide to receive the vaccine. There are also people in this group who have suffered from COVID. In the current situation, many countries introduce restrictions on access to the public area for non-vaccine persons. Also in Poland there are more and more reports of possible concepts regarding the introduction due to the increase of exacerbations for non-vaccine individuals. Minister! Does the government intend to introduce such solutions also in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u252	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You are absent, Minister Dworczyk! According to the June survey of the Polish Economic Institute, only 42% if you are not vaccinated, you will be vaccinated. That's catastrophically low. It's a failure. So far, only about 40% have been vaccinated. Poles and Poles and collective immunity will not be achieved until approximately 70 and 80% have been vaccinated. of us, and best of all. You're saying that how many people are vaccinated depends on whether or not you enter another lockdown. But since there are no more elections on the horizon, the Prime Minister will not call off the pandemic. For you, neither the economy nor the millions of people you risk losing their lives and their health count. [[Do you know what you're saying?]] You know you have a problem. Minister Dworczyk explicitly admits that the declines in the number of volunteers from week to week are significant, a few dozen percent. Is a national lottery enough to make a difference? I don't think so. Vaccinations protect lives, so you must do absolutely everything you can to encourage as many people as possible. This week, President Emmanuel Macron announced that in France, people who are not vaccinated or who do not have a current negative test for the presence of COVID-19 will not have access to cinemas, theatres, restaurants, shopping malls and will not be able to travel by collective transport. The next day almost 1 million people registered for vaccination. May I? Yes, you can. Minister! It's the last line. Why not introduce the same mechanisms in Poland? Are you planning to inoculate health professionals and uniforms? Start acting, be responsible (the bell) or face the consequences of your negligence. I'm asking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. [[I don't think she's here.]] There is no Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! It is interesting that we see the same satisfaction from the rulers in view of the fact that we have second place in terms of the number of overtime deaths throughout the European Union. This means that we are the penultimate country when it comes to dealing with the coronavirus in a situation where there would be a fourth wave. In this situation, vaccinations seem to be the most important thing. On the other hand, if we compare the election results of Andrzej Duda, your president, with the results of vaccination, the result is clear. Turns out the biggest problem is where most people support you. Not in big cities where the support for the Civic Coalition or the Left is the greatest, but with you. [[Voice from the courtroom: What about prisons?]] One thing you can say is that you should go to the regions that gave you support and fight there for people to want to vaccinate themselves. Very often the reason for this is that there are fake news about vaccinations in which people believe. Against them, you should encourage those priests who encouraged you to vote for you to now encourage people to vaccination to lie about reality. Every year we pay $2 billion for public television, which could spend all of its programs to defy vaccination issues, and instead it turns out that it takes extra money for vaccine advertising at a time when, for example, it does. Private TV, like TVN, does such programs for free. We need to use the time we have until the fourth wave. You were late when it came to vaccination of children: you had to start vaccination in June, when they were still in school, and you had already agreed to vaccinate children over 12 years of age. Nothing was done to inoculate all the doctors and all the teachers. Why didn't the teachers change very quickly if they were reluctant to AstraZeneka, the vaccine for Pfizer? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These arrears will already be very difficult to catch up with and Poles will pay for it with their lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u256	Thank you very much. I wanted to tell you that we are approaching the end of time for questions. Because there are eight more people, I'm gonna let them all ask a question. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There were so many critical words here, but I must commend the local authorities from my district, which work well with the government and also organise vaccinations, for example at various sports or cultural events. They're organizing vaccination points. One of the districts organized a vaccine bus, which arrives to all villages in the county, after agreement of the deadline and its announcement. However, I am interested in the vaccination of foreigners in our country. We've got a lot of people from across the east border who came to work. Some of them, of course, have a temporary stay, some are here on the basis of visas, some are just trying to legalize their stay. How is vaccination organised? After all, they live among us, move among us, and are also exposed to coronavirus infection, as well as expose others to infection. If it is not possible to get an answer today, although I do not like to do so so as not to add a job in the Ministry, I would ask for a written reply if that is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Vaccinations are very important and I think we will be able to inoculate all those who want to and want to achieve stability that will allow us to survive the fourth wave of pandemic. Different types of competitions announced for local governments, for groups of rural hostesses - today the competition for groups of rural hostesses was announced, and 8,000 were allocated. for organising a vaccination site - in the countryside it is very important. I think it's an important program and we can speed up the vaccinations in this way. Minister! I wanted to ask, first of all, how many people wanted to take part in a lottery that was announced by the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u260	Thank you, Member. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u261	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! All hands on deck because the situation is difficult for everyone. There's been a lot of false accusations about the government here. As Minister Dworczyk said, 71% people asked in the survey answered that they assess the course of vaccination well or very well. I also have many signals from people from Mielecki County, but also from Podkarpackie Voivodeship, who thank Minister Dworczyk for a well prepared vaccination programme. In January, February we were in a different reality. Today's vaccine is as much as it takes, but we know what it was like in the beginning, and it was not the fault of the Polish government. I would also like to thank all those who carry out these vaccinations: doctors, nurses, medical staff, pharmacists and paramedics. It is known that today there are 16.5 million people fully vaccinated. We'd like those over 40%. It was going to be 70%. We have a problem in Podkarpacie, because there are about 32% vaccinated with two doses. I wanted to reply to the Member who said earlier that we should get to work. On Sunday there is a picnic organized by the local government of Czerwin, where there will also be a mobile vaccination point. There will be encouragement, I will, there will be my daughter, who is a doctor - we will encourage. All the time, we encourage vaccination from the beginning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have another question. In the context of the current and projected number of people vaccinated, I would like to ask how the government predicts the possible occurrence of the so-called. The fourth wave of infection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u263	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! The problem is not the availability of vaccines, these vaccines we have now in excess, and it is not the problem of organising vaccinations, but the problem is that a large part of the population does not get vaccinated because they are afraid of vaccinations because they believe in goslings, superstitions, various conspiracy theories. We need to deceiving these superstitions. Will public television take good action deceiving these superstitions in order to reduce the fear of vaccinations? This is about deceiving what is widely distributed, namely the information that the vaccine can kill, that the vaccines have not been tested enough, that in five years we will not be able to feel the health effects of the vaccine. These are all nonsenses that people believe in, and this is the reason that people in Poland simply do not vaccinate. The lack of a good deceiving action is due to the fact that most of these uninsected people live where the PiS had the greatest support. It's just that PiS is afraid of hitting anti-vaccine theories because it's hitting its own base. But it's a matter of life and death and health. Can we count on common sense and effective action in this regard? Personally, I would recommend the choice that was made in France because it had an immediate effect. We have two months or less to prepare for the fourth wave that will occur, or there will be another strain (the Bell), another mutation of the virus. What action will be taken so that the situation does not recur from the beginning of the school year last year? What measures will be taken in favour of kindergartens, schools, children, families in school communities so that they do not spread the virus without vaccination through contacts at school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion of current information, Minister Dworczyk informed that the government had achieved huge success in traditional and social media. The Minister also called for the facts to be kept, so let's stick to the facts. The Institute for Internet and Community Media Research carried out an analysis of the effects of the government programme, so-called. program: we're going to vaccinate ourselves. In this analysis you can read that more than 79% statements on vaccination in social media in the last 30 days have been negative in relation to the use of the vaccine itself and only 20 entries have been positive. Where's the success that the government representative was talking about? The number of subjects vaccinated is increasing only because individuals are vaccinated with a second dose, but the number of subjects applying for vaccination with the first dose is decreasing dramatically. The vaccination centres limit activity and the action of calling non-vaccine individuals has a positive effect of only 2%. This certainly does not work well in terms of achieving collective immunity. On the other hand, when it comes to the fight against fake news, even from the government side or wider: negative statements on vaccination are still appearing on the part of the camp of power, even if the case of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child has already been mentioned. In traditional and social media, in which you promote vaccination, at the same time multiple critical or open national vaccination programmes appear every day. The government is losing this fight, and the measures mentioned by the Minister are no longer useful and have no positive effect. The conclusion is that you're afraid of falling popularity, so you're allowing anti-vaccine movements to work. [[That's not true.]] It's your responsibility, it's shame and shame. [[That's not true.]] Do not hide yourselves from the doctors in your statements, because they will pay for your inability. If you want to take care of them, start really vaccinating people to achieve collective immunity, because if you get more disease, you will not suffer the consequences, but will be borne by doctors, nurses, paramedics and all hospital staff, who are often still waiting for the payments of COVID supplements. Take a look at this situation, see what the situation is with hospital payouts all over the country. People come to me not only from my constituency, but also from all over the country. There's a problem, a huge problem. I agree that we should all take an active part in the promotion of vaccination measures and combat the negative effects of the pandemic. Therefore, we have proposals that the government can use at any time to save the situation. I hope that the Minister will also address these proposals in his speech. First of all, the government should take a clear stand and take action to ensure that refusal of vaccination is a socially harmful attitude and that people who are not vaccinated voluntarily without medical justification should have limited access to larger concentrations of people: in cinemas, in restaurants, in clubs, in other such places. Specially important social groups should be given compulsory vaccination, e.g. health workers or teachers. Of course, we can discuss what collective groups should be concerned, but you should think about it. Vaccines should be organised for persons with reduced access to vaccination points, through the organisation of mobile vaccination points that will travel from the village to the village... [[But they are, they're organized.]] This is also the request of people who cooperate with people in the homeless crisis. Let these mobile vaccination sites drive around the desert at night so they can inoculate homeless people. [[They're ……]] That's a huge problem. Vaccines should be allowed to be given to nurses at the place of residence of the person concerned in order to eliminate restrictions on access to vaccination. There is also a need for support for the elderly and for the lonely. They often don't want to come in for vaccination because they're afraid of symptoms after him, that they won't have anyone to take care of them. The solution could be to engage in such assistance, either the ILOS or the clinic. It's about care for the time after vaccination. It is also worth rethinking the proposal of a 100 percent paid day off for vaccination for workers. The bill by the Left is waiting. If you don't want to accept it, rewrite it and adopt it as your own. Education on how vaccines work, for different age groups, but also, and perhaps even above all in schools - since this school year. The rules on labour law in relation to the protection of personal data should be improved so that employers can organise vaccinations and collect data in their organisation without risk. The last question, perhaps even the most important one: we need to fight fake news and organized anti-vaccine propaganda. It is not only about making the information straight, but also about actively combating this activity, which is openly harmful. After all, we know that many leads directly from anti-vaccine organizations and propaganda served by them to foreign countries which intentionally influence public debate in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u266	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Anna Goławska, to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u267	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is quite a lot of negative information in your statements. Of course, they are not always reflected in reality, because the vaccination programme is implemented continuously, in an undistorted way. The initial problems were due to the supply of vaccines and were independent of the government and dependant on producers who had delays, which actually caused some opposition to the public at the beginning. However, we have reached such a point that vaccines are not lacking for anyone, and you can at any time sign up for vaccination and get vaccination without waiting in line in a short time. There are many possible forms of vaccination: from fixed vaccination centres in hospitals or primary healthcare facilities to various forms of mobile vaccination centres. It is possible to use mobile vaccination units that will reach any place where they need to be. That's the answer, among other things. for disabled people or older people who have difficulty reaching the vaccination point. There's a possibility of inoculation in pharmacies. You can immunize yourself in shopping malls or on the occasion of various picnics that are implemented by local governments. We are also discussing the possibility of vaccination at churches, after Holy Masses. Such a solution has already been carried out in the Lesser Poland Voivodship, where the number of people vaccinated has increased significantly. The low number of vaccinateds in this voivodship was emphasized here, and this shows that we are also reaching these people. [[See?]] We've put in place a programme to encourage primary healthcare professionals to immunize. They will call, reach out to all their patients who have not yet been vaccinated. This will answer your request to look after the elderly who are not convinced or afraid of the adverse effects. Such measures will be taken by primary healthcare professionals. To answer specific questions about the third dose, there are no such recommendations at this time. Manufacturers of Moderna and Pfizer vaccines suggest that a third dose may be necessary, but studies by American scientists on individuals who were first vaccinated indicate that protection from these vaccines is sustained and decreasing slowly from 95% to 93% after six months. So right now, there's no such recommendation. On the other hand, we are constantly observing and testing results, and we ourselves are conducting such studies on the preservation of immunity, and if necessary in individuals, especially those who have reduced immunity, i.e. seniors or people with chronic diseases, such a decision will be made. Disabled persons shall be vaccinated as a priority. Universal vaccination points have been designated, which without queues receive such persons as well as their carers. The vaccination centre may also be invited to care for disabled people, where without queues, without the need to expect the vaccineer to arrive and carry out vaccinations. The vaccinations started in mid-June, because we were informed that people who were 12 years of age could be vaccinated with Pfizer. Those who were 16 years of age had the opportunity since 17 May. These individuals may arrange for vaccination at any point of vaccination. Young people over the age of 16 can come alone with the consent of the legal guardian. Those under the age of 12 come with a guardian. Only doctors can qualify from 12 to 16 years of age, so the highest safety is maintained. At this point we have more than one million minors vaccinated, with two doses already of 432,000. persons. We hope that by the beginning of the school year the number of minors vaccinated will increase significantly. We also plan to organise vaccinations at school premises. As far as foreigners are concerned, all people who reside constantly in our country have the opportunity to immunize themselves. If they have a PESEL number, they have received an automatic vaccination referral just like all other citizens. If they do not have a PESEL number, they may make an appointment directly at the vaccination centre or at the primary healthcare provider, giving the passport number and the necessary personal data to issue the referral. Such vaccination shall be carried out free of charge. There was a question about vaccination in pharmacies. We've activated the possibility of vaccination in pharmacies. They have access to the P1 system so they can issue a vaccination card, have access to the registration and ordering system for vaccines. This trial has already begun. At this moment, 638 pharmacies came into the program and managed to inoculate almost 5.5 thousand. people, using this form. The vaccinations are performed by 221 pharmacists. The qualification for vaccination in addition to doctors, as has been the case so far, can be carried out by any person who carries out the profession of doctor, dentist, nurse, midwife, felcher, paramedic or school hygienist, pursues the profession of physiotherapist, pharmacist, laboratory diagnostics and has obtained evidence of participation in the training which is available on the platform of the e-learning Centre for Post-graduate Medical Training, and persons who are trained in the 5th or 6th year of their medical course, in the 3rd year of their first degree in nursing, in the 5th year of their medical and dental studies, or have completed their studies in medical, nursing, medical and dental courses, and within 6 months of their completion of their studies they have obtained a certificate of qualification for vaccination issued by the training institution. The promotion measures that are being implemented are ad hoc and long-term. And so on. The national vaccination program lottery has a long-term effect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For today, 2,700 thousand have been reported. people willing to participate in the lottery, which shows that this is a solution that also has positive effects. There was a question about EU COVID certificates. These certificates apply not only to people who have been vaccinated but also to people who have passed the disease, but also to people who have passed the disease. they are cured and have been confirmed by a PCR test - after 11 days of receiving the result they receive a certificate which is valid for 180 days - and those who have received a negative PCR or antigenic test. This certificate is valid in Poland for up to 48 hours, while the certificate that we receive as a result of vaccination is valid for 12 months. Come to the end, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska: The current rules state that if you come back from abroad without vaccination, quarantine is required. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Bravo, Minister!]] [[Voice from the hall: Thank you, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u268	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the forecast of the next wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, representatives of many sectors of the economy are calling for increased vaccination and even restrictions on non-vaccination. They believe that without strong incentives for non-vaccination, vaccination cannot be accelerated and therefore they are preparing a common position on this matter. Employers' organisations also prepare a similar position. The Enterprise Council, which brings together the largest Polish business organizations, the Confederation of Leviathan, the Polish Business Council or the Employers of Poland, has recently issued a communication. It calls for immediate action to speed up the process of immunization of Polish society. Medics also feel the same way as entrepreneurs. In recent weeks, the average number of vaccinations with the first dose is only 50,000. The highest number of vaccinations per day are carried out in Mazowieckie and Wielkopolskie voivodships, and at least in Podlaskie, Podkarpackie and Opolskie voivodships. According to Minister Michał Dworczyk, the government has another plan, which assumes greater involvement of POZs in convincing patients to vaccinate. What are the details of the implementation of this plan?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u270	On this we exhausted the agenda of the 35th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I address you to Marshal Elizabeth Witek on behalf of myself and the Left, but above all on behalf of Ilona Justkowiak, Agnieszka Chryc, Emil Piotrowicz, Joanna Liddane, Wiesława and Isabella Kotyzów, Dariusz Nock, Dariusz Gryglik, Elżbieta Sekular, Katarzyna and Leszek Urbanów. On 17 July in Otyń, Lubusek, this group of citizens and citizens protested against PiS politics. Unfortunately, Marshal Elizabeth Witek, as well as the MEP Elizabeth Rafalska, and Mr Ast, many false and hurtful words came out of your mouth. They were accused of being paid by third parties, and in addition they did not come from this region. These lies have been repeated by Marshal Witek in local media. A day later Prime Minister Morawiecki also lied about this, saying that the protesters were aggressive. Speakers believe exactly the opposite. They're convinced that they're the ones who've experienced aggressive behavior by the PiS supporters. A group of Lubuskie activists and activists are demanding correction and apologies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u272	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sure you've met many times, like me, with a fund-raiser for treatment, for rehabilitation, for some needs, house repairs, apartments, etc. But most of all, I'm talking about the treatment of children, family members. People support this, there are resources collected, there are organized various kinds of actions. This is a beautiful attitude, but my first reaction is always the same: Where is the country? Where is our country when a desperate family begs for help because there is a chance to cure a child, a father or another member of the family, but it is expensive? Sometimes maybe not so, because it is a question of tens of thousands of zlotys. Waiting for this amount to be raised is a fight against time. It's scary. The Constitution guarantees us free treatment, assistance and care. So where is our country? How does it work now? Why is a person allowed to die if it is possible to obtain help? Families are left unsupported. Imagine that the state wanted to allocate PLN 2.4 billion to the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, and for oncology treatment, approximately PLN 10 billion per year is spent on oncology. Why such proportions? What does that depend on? Isn't that interesting? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u274	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the previous session of the Sejm was over and this point, or statements, was being processed, the media world was told that the 21 members of the PiS had signed up to a bill to liquidate TVN. I'm thinking, what's going to happen today? Today, when this point is being worked, there are a maximum of 10 Members... [[Voice from the room: Where?]] ...the media world has been told that here is the Attorney General to the Marshals of the Seym of Elizabeth Witek for permission to hold the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control of Marian Banasi criminally liable, as informed by the National Public Prosecutor's Office. That the State's Attorney couldn't do it in the morning, because today we would read this application here, and perhaps even at this point we discussed it. I would like to ask your marshals, as a matter of urgency, to pass on a request from the National Prosecutor's Office, which, as she states, was sent today to Marshal Elizabeth Witek, because I understand that we are to decide on the immunity of President Marian Banas. Now, if your marshal will allow me, the statement I wanted to make. High Izbo! In 2004, the government of the Democratic Alliance introduced two food programmes, a glass of milk and fruit and vegetables at school, which currently benefit 2 million children from almost 14,000. institutions. The purchase and delivery costs of products have always been paid jointly by Poland and the European Union. Thanks to these programs, students received free of charge high-quality products by the end of the school year: milk, yogurt, kefira, apples, plums, strawberries and juices and purée. These were products purchased from local, i.e. Polish producers and suppliers. Both programmes enjoyed the cross-party support of successive ministers of national education up to the term of Mr Przemysław Czarnek, when, probably as part of the New Deal in the world, Law and Justice cut funding for the purchase of free food. A few days ago, I received an answer from the Minister of Education, which shows that Law and Justice have cut subsidies because they have decided to replace the good food they have purchased with cheaper alternatives, which, with the growing cost of agricultural products and processed products, is the most ridiculous thing for my constituents in the world. As you know, if something is cheaper, it almost never means that something is optimal, the best and the most valuable. After all, we are talking about Polish children and Polish schools. I suppose the cheapest products for themselves and for their families do not buy neither the Prime Minister nor any of the Prime Minister's ministers, with the Minister of Education at the head. Teachers claim that cutting money when it comes to healthy food means de facto withdrawing Polish schools to the 20th century, where chips reigned on the richer student's menu, and students from poorer families often had nothing valuable to eat on a large break. Mr Czarnek was divorced here, how fit he was to be a minister responsible for education of Polish young people, but if someone personally participates in this and personally defends the cutting off of money for healthy food, this attitude proves the opposite. That is why I expect the Minister and the superiors of the Minister to reflect on the decisions already taken and to increase the funding for student food programmes to at least the level of 2020 plus the costs of inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! Here is Poland (the bell) and here is the European Union, and there are Polish children, Minister and Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u277	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I deeply regret the fact that the PiS-owska Sejm majority held Minister Czarnek as Minister of Education and Science. Thus, the ruling party ignored the signatures of over 100,000. people, including many young people, students and students, students and students who signed up for the citizens' vote of distrust for Minister Czarnek. The action of the collection of signatures under the citizens' vote of distrust leads the Left along with the Action of Democracy. Those who have signed a vote of distrust are often schoolgirls and students who have personally experienced the destruction of the education system by the current minister, or worried parents, who are worried about increasing indoctrination at school, or depressed teachers who are under the increasing ideological control of the minister and his curators. Mr. Czarnek has been the worst minister of education since Giertych. The task of destroying the Polish school performs zealously and with the deepest conviction. Instead of supporting self-thinking, creativity and modern education, which would allow young people to develop their abilities best and thus increase their chances of a good job and a future career, young people are formatted into one hoof in Minister Czarnka's school. The independence and social activity of young people are condemned. Everyone's supposed to think the same thing, according to the minister's catechism and phobias. In order to protect such youth education, teachers, catechists, school heads, controlled and, in the event of danger or disobedience, repressed and released by curators like the infamous Barbara Nowak from Kraków are to be watched. It is this extremely controversial curator who is more suitable for the clausurian order or media school of Father Rydzyk, rather than for the European education of the 21st century, Minister Czarnek defends and promotes. They're just people like you. Nowak controls Polish schools. It's pathology. Although Minister Czarnek has not yet been called off, the Left will not stop. We will continue to collect signatures and do everything we can to protect the Polish school from religious fundamentalism, right-wing and national extremes and institutional disenfranchise. We owe it to everyone who signed up for a citizen's vote of distrust towards Minister Czarnek. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u278	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few weeks ago, along with Mrs Paulina Matysiak and Mrs Magdalena Beyat, we visited Bydgoszcz. We met with Daniel Kaszubowski, a member of the Together and a representative of the inhabitants of one of the Bydgoszcz districts who are protesting against the creation of a new hazardous waste incineration plant. Since 1995, an incinerator of hazardous waste, mainly industrial waste, has been operating in the former Zachem Chemical Works. It was first created for the needs of Zach, but after its collapse, privatisation and liquidation it deals with the disposal of the free market. This new one, planned to burn as much as 28,000. t hazardous waste per year and will be another installation of this type in Bydgoszcz. Their capacity already exceeds the region's demand, because only 3,000 are produced in the entire Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. t of this waste per year. Our attention has been drawn to the fact that the incinerators, both the existing one and the new one, are planned, are to be away from the residential buildings, nursery, health centre and kindergarten, which is to build the city, about 1,1,5 km. This is particularly outrageous. The settlement councils and residents about the investment preparation process really learned shortly before the consultation on this issue was concluded. At the last moment, they mobilized themselves to pay attention and show that they did not agree to this type of investment and this type of activity of the city office. The voice of the inhabitants is ignored. Their fears are ignored. There is a lack of reliable analyses, expertise that would concern this investment and its impact on the health of residents, on the comfort of their lives. The construction of such an installation cannot take place in such a way, because the interests of the inhabitants cannot be ignored and it cannot be so that the investor's interest is always the most important and that it is always the investor that matters first. Together with Daniel Kaszubowski and the Bydgoszcz party district, we will support the residents in this very unequal fight. We will take action to safeguard the interests of the residents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u280	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u281	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Taxes are about 60% fuel prices. This means that if each of us fills up for 100 PLN, it pours only 40 PLN into the tank. The remaining 60 PLN, i.e. 60% fuel prices, takes the government-in-Office. What he does with them, we see it all. Meanwhile, the average fuel price in recent days at petrol stations in the case of gasoline is PLN 5.7, in the case of diesel it is PLN 5.4. This price will probably increase in the following days. The price of a barrel - about $73 - does not in any way justify that the prices at the stations are so high. The largest fuel producer, the largest fuel company in Poland Orlen has an investment policy, but it would be all right if this investment policy concerned basic activities or derivative activities. Meanwhile, these high fuel prices allow Orlen to invest in the media and buy media. But these are not shopping that only takes place for business reasons. These are purchases to create a propaganda tool for the ruling party. This cost, which we see at the stations today, is not due to the fact that the price of oil, the price of its processing are so high, just because Orlen on the shoulders of drivers is building a media group to support the dull propaganda of the current government. This cost at the stations unfortunately also translates into the cost of shops. Poles, going to shops, buying ordinary products like bread, margarine, cheese, pay for no more just because they have to pay the racket for Orlen, which this racket uses not again to process fuel, only to build a media company for the current government and for Law and Justice. That is why today we call on the government, firstly, to verify the tax strategy for fuel. It can't be that the prices on the stations are rising just because the government has no idea of saving money, so it's looking for extra money, additionally charging drivers. We also call for a change of strategy in the Orlen Group to take into account the interests of the state, the interests of citizens, rather than the interests of the governing party alone and the need to build a media group that will lead a dull policy for law and justice. We expect the government to put in place mechanisms to mitigate what is happening at the stations today, that is, these drastic increases in fuel prices. It can't be that Poles pay for propaganda, and then they have to listen to it even further, even in public media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Szopiński's words, because it is the law on the Supreme Chamber of Control that regulates when the Attorney General or the Public Prosecutor's Office of Cracow and in what manner they direct a request for a possible waiver of immunity to the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, namely the disposition of Article. 18c paragraph. This is clearly stated by one of the Member States. I do not inform Members, but inform the Marshal of the Sejm in order to implement the procedure set out precisely in the legal basis which I have invoked. Let me repeat: Art. 18c paragraph. One-nine of the Supreme Chamber of Control Act. But going to the statement, I wanted to ask the Minister of Climate and Environment to lean on the problem that concerns the establishment of telecommunications stations. Namely, I deal with this situation in my district, the residents asked me to intervene in this case. Attention should be paid to a number of legal bases or regulations that exist in this area, where the investor actually has disproportionately far-reaching powers, it might seem, in relation to the residents. In fact, in my opinion there is a need to bend over the current rules, both in the law itself and in the regulation of the Council of Ministers in this respect, which provides for variables, which in turn indicate whether, at least, it is necessary to draw up a report on environmental impacts where these base stations are created. There is a huge problem in Dziełtów, a 62-metre telecommunications station is created, and in fact the nearest building is 30 m. Many years ago, residents built their homes - it is also close to Sielpi, called Świętokrzyskie Ibiza, which is a tourist destination known on the map of the Świętokrzyskie region - and they hoped for far-reaching, deep peace. But it is true, of course, that telecommunications networks must be established, and that is what we count on. In addition, in Dziełtów in the municipality of Końskie we are dealing with the situation that the municipality declared to the investor a plot in exchange for the one on which this mobile telephone station would be located. Unfortunately, the investor does not talk about it. It can also be seen that, in this respect, the rules are not entirely against the inhabitants, for we must bear in mind that this right is intended to serve the citizens, not the citizens of the law. In this regard, of course, I will refer the appropriate interpellation to the Minister of Climate and Environment and inform the President of the Council of Ministers. The point is whether these rules that so far exist are sufficient or, in short, they allow effective and complete protection of the social interest of the inhabitants. 'Cause I'm gonna talk about one more fact that happened. According to the law, the authority issuing the permit in this respect whether the issuing decision on the organisation or the carrying out of such an investment - whether the mayor, the mayor or the President in the case of a local government unit - is also obliged to act in accordance with the letter of law and if these parameters fall within the scope of that regulation of the Council of Ministers, it cannot do anything except this decision. There is also the question of a public consultation, which, as the people informed me about, was not there. In short, they were placed before the fact and in a moment there will be a 62-metre tower. And one more thing, very important. Your Marshal, High Izbo, in this respect, is about perhaps leaning over the bill or the regulation and that the investor who intends to establish such a tower is obliged, regardless of its parameters, to create a report, firstly, to influence the environment, and secondly, in the first, even more important way, to influence the health and life of the inhabitants. Of course, as I have pointed out, I will submit, at the disposal of the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, the interview to the Minister of Climate and the President of the Council of Ministers to lean on this problem, because he is, he is present in many cities in Poland, in many places in Poland, and this fact may need to be structured. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u284	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u285	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no way to fail to refer to recent media reports in terms of US, German and Russian cooperation in terms of construction Nord Stream 2. We are very concerned about the situation in which the President of the United States, Joe Biden, blessed by talking to Chancellor Angela Merkel with this document, namely the construction of Nord Stream 2, the completion of this pipeline. This is a curial situation where the United States is really breaking up the European Union. The situation in which the European Union is breaking up in terms of security, sovereignty has just happened. Because what about Belarus today, what about Ukraine, what about the countries concerned, that is, bypassing these countries, what about a country like Poland? The United States deliberately tries to break up the European Union for its interests through the presidency of Joe Biden. Many political backgrounds have said that President Trump is pro-Russian during his presidency, that the Russians elected him President of the United States. And it was he who strengthened through his diplomacy, through his visits such countries as Poland and pointed out that European unity can only be possible if such states are sovereign, they will be a community, but above all, an economic community. Today, such decisions and such a blessing to the German-Russian interests of the US President lead to the disintegration of the European Union. Because the European Union, including Germany, is a powerful country that really gives out cards and often throws out additional cards that it plays, trying to reprimand countries like Poland. The European Union would certainly like more countries to join the European Community. Only in this way cannot be done, in this way it is impossible to build the European Community if there is no unity in this Community. Where is European unity if Germany, Russians and Americans cooperate over the heads of European countries. There is a deep opposition of the Polish government as well. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki mentioned today that this is playing over the heads of national states. There's been so much talk about how we should diplomatically block the construction of Nord Stream 2. A resolution was created prepared by parliamentarians of Solidarna Polska. Practically all Members of the High House voted in favour of this resolution calling on Germany to cease these interests, to cease cooperation with the Russians. Then he was attacked in Belarus, then the difficult situation in Ukraine. It was said to be counterproductive. But how do you do it? We said that we had to act decisively, that is to block the construction of Nord Stream 2, block the totalitarian regime, block regimes that destroy countries such as Belarus and Ukraine. And what did the European Union do today? What has a country like Germany done that often reprimands Poles for our Constitutional Court, our Constitution? It is very sad that, when we are a sovereign state, we are building our democracy, we are a full member of the European Union, we are building such interests and the European Community is breaking down. I hope that this policy will not lead to an even greater division in the European Union. I hope that such a situation where the United States and the new President, who was to be the President of Europe, who was to be the pro-Union president, who was to support the Union and build the Union, is today breaking up this Union... Because the biggest breaking-up is the one that favors one country, the one that builds cooperation with Putin above the heads of national states, and builds cooperation with the regimes. As the European Union, we had to support Belarus and Ukraine, and the main quarterback who reprimands Poland on the international stage is doing business with the regimes. I do not like this situation, I hope that there will be a firm voice from other European countries. I hope that the United States and Joe Biden will not build a pro-Russian policy, because this situation primarily affects the break-up of the European Union. I also hope that we will return to the economic community in the Union, where respect for the national states will be a priority and will be a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u286	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u287	Card statement. Adam Sapieha, metropolitan of Krakow, leader of the Polish Catholic Church during World War II, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of his death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 70 years ago, Cardinal died in Krakow on July 23, 1951. Adam Sapieha, metropolitan of Krakow, spiritual leader of the Polish Catholic Church during World War II and in the first years of the Polish People's Republic. Cardinal. Sapieha was one of the most outstanding figures in the Polish history of the Catholic Church. During World War II, he organized aid for war victims. As a result of cooperation with the government of the Republic of Poland in exile, he received material aid, which he distributed within the established civil aid committee. He openly opposed Nazi torture by sending letters to the German criminal governor Hans Frank, which was an act of great courage. On 18 February 1946 he was appointed Cardinal by Pope Pius XII. During the period of the Polish People's Republic he took actions to normalize the relationship on the state line - the Church. Because of his attitude, he was called a prince of integrity. Peace of his soul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u288	On July 22, 1944, the first troops of the Red Army began attacking the German-controlled Lviv. At the same time, the Soviets began to join forces of the Home Army. In the absence of infantry, this was an excellent aid and cover for Soviet armored troops. The Lviv Uprising has begun. Further groups of AKs joined the fight, in liberated districts representatives of the Polish administration appeared and joined the office. The campaign of posting Polish flags on liberated streets and buildings of special importance was launched. By July 28, Germany was beaten and forced to withdraw from the city. The National Army has made a serious contribution to the liberation of Lviv. Several hundred Polish soldiers were killed in the fights. On July 28, the Soviets demanded that the AK troops be disarmed. After a few days, a Polish delegation was arrested, headed by the commander of the district Władysław Filipkowski, Janka. The Poles went there at the invitation of the Soviets and General Szymierski. They were supposed to talk about creating a 5. The AK Infantry Division, which was supposed to fight on the Eastern front. A similar fate met the commanding staff of the AK in Lviv. A few thousand AK soldiers were arrested and sent to Soviet camps. Many of them have not returned to Poland. Many of them returned only after many years. Respect and memory fighting for free Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u289	Cyprian Kamil Norwid - in all Christians [[2021 - Resolution of the Polish Sejm - Year of Cyprian Kamila Norwid]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Cyprian Kamil Norwid - poet, writer, artist, intellectual, sculptor, painter, philosopher and passionate patriot - and Christian in everything. That's the fourth news. During life - the poet of the poet, forgotten and underestimated. The Urn with the ground from Norwid's grave in 2001 was placed in Wawel National Wieszczy Krypt. A real and passionate patriot. Norwid's eternal motto and truth: "Homeland is a great, collective duty" is now one of the most important dimensions of man's life in terms of nationality and patriotism. He's ahead of his era. Norwid's contemporary poetry and work was neither appreciated nor understood, nor was the size of the Chopen's music mastered at that time. Humanity had to ripen to comprehend the depth and beauty of their timeless work: "The deaf stones were groaning - Ideal reached the pavement. So, in order to understand and mature, you must first fall down and completely reject beauty and art?! Does this not resemble today's reality, the disappearance of all the values in which the Ideal reached the pavement? Today's contemporary command of the moment is to read and instantly embody the Norwegian system of values with the chief golden triad: Truth, Good and Beauty, strengthened by the Christian principle of Love. According to Norwid, the essence of beauty and art always comes from love. And beauty flows from him who is Absolute Love. So what has been left today from the beautifully sounding recital of our constitution of 2 April 1997: in the care for the existence and future of our Homeland, we, the Nation of Poland - all citizens of the Republic, both believers in God, who is the source of truth, justice, goodness and beauty? Today we urgently need to accept Norwid's axiological and religious statement that man is a pilgrim nature. The ethical dimension of the Pilgrim's Man (the Homo Viator), who walks forward with his head raised up into the sky. Closer to the Categorical imperative of Kanta: The sky of the starry above me and the moral law in me. This earthly pilgrimage of man often involves difficulty, but nothing can prevent him from pursuing the Truth and doing the Good. According to Norwid, the hardships and candies of the earthly road, like the Messiah, eventually become the gateway to victory: The cross becomes our gate. We must keep in mind that the moral good is perfect humanity. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! How needed today are the present - day Norvids, steadfast preachers of truth, who would view public space as a battlefield for values, for tomorrow and for a better man. Today we are looking urgently for Norvids, poets-theologians, who could imitate the power of the Catholic mind of the 19th century, the pericopate of the Gospel of St. Matthew (Matthew 16:24), as Cyprian Kamil Norwid did: "Not behind him with the cross of the Savior, but after the Saviour with his cross. We yearn for Norwid, who categorically claimed the Gospel: "Let your talk be so - yes, no - no. For those who think so, not for them! Without the light-shadow... I miss you, mister. We yearn for Norwid, who loved the Homeland as a country of sacred customs: "Where the crumbs of bread are lifted from the ground by respect, "where it is a great fault to spoil the nest on storks, for they serve all, where the first bows are like the eternal Christ's confession: 'Be praised!' I miss you, mister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u290	On 14 July, at a press conference, President Ursula von der Leyen and vice-president Frans Timmermans presented a legislative package on climate and energy called Fit for 55. The name refers to the new CO reduction target One of the main points of the package is the reform of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, the EU ETS. Within this EU scheme, there is a limit on greenhouse gas emission allowances for certain installations that are decreasing from year to year, leading to Europe's gradual decarbonisation. The system has so far been integrated into the electricity sector, industry and flights within the EU. Maritime transport and aviation are to be added to the ETS. But much more. controversial from Poland's perspective is the provision concerning the creation of an equivalent separate ETS system since 2025 for buildings and road transport. Critics of this call stress that the additional burden of change will fall on consumers, including the poorest ones already in the group of energy poor farms - more than 34 million people in the EU - or those excluded by transport. These proposals will contribute to a further increase in the price of allowances. At the moment, their price reaches 45 euros per tonne of emissions. Several years ago it was only EUR 3 per tonne. Experts from the Polish Economic Institute, PIE, in this year's report indicate that such a solution without aid tools would mean an average increase in energy expenditure in the EU for 20% of the poorest households up to 50%, in Poland - on average up to 108% , on the other hand, for transport - by 44%. The authors argue that the additional costs for EU households will amount to EUR 1.11 trillion in 2025-2040. The European Commission also proposes a drastic reduction in existing CO emission standards in order to decarbonise road transport Another instrument to reduce CO emissions This new legislative package is very controversial. The aim of Brussels, which is to lead the world towards climate neutrality, can create many tensions not only in the EU but also outside it. Let's hope it doesn't turn out that, as experts say, at the same time that the EU is fighting CO
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member from Pomerania, I am seeking the development of roads in the region. These are important investments to increase the safety of Pomerania residents. The comprehensive modernization of the national road No 21 in section Słupsk - Ustka is planned for PLN 123 million. The agreement for its implementation will be signed at the beginning of next week. The primary objective of DK21 expansion is to improve road safety, improve driving comfort on this route, reduce noise and ensure better network capacity. The average daily traffic on the national road no. 21 on the section Słupsk - Ustka is almost 13 thousand. vehicles daily. Already in 2023, this investment is planned to be completed. This is a good step for the development of Pomerania and the land of the post. Ground-water conditions will be improved and a number of road safety improvements will be carried out, among others. construction of new pavements, bike paths or reconstruction of crossings. This will improve the safety, ordering and communicating of adjacent terrain and introduce segregation of circular, bike and pedestrian traffic. I have no doubt that this investment is very much needed and expected by the residents. Each zloty for the development of the pole land is very important. The expanded road will not only improve the safety of residents, but will also reduce congestion, particularly burdensome during the summer period. Each such action is another step in the development of our region and of the land itself. Road infrastructure in Pomerania has never developed so quickly. The efficient actions of the Polish government led by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki allowed for a rapid pace of implementation of these investments. From this point I would like to thank once again everyone involved in building this priority road for the inhabitants of Pomerania.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u292	Two days ago in this room there was a collision of two systems of values: one desiring the growth of humanism and social order, the other - moral destruction and the fall of civilization. It is about a system of values which is to be given to the young generation, Polish children and young people, it is about education and upbringing of young Poles. We defended as politicians the right hand of humanism because we defended prof. Przemysława Czarnka, Minister of Education. We care about healthy rules that we would like to pass on to our children and grandchildren. The dispute was about individual and social virtues. Anonymous for virtue is a defect, immorality, fall. In this House, the minister of education of the darkholds and bad decisions was accused of wanting to teach the moral virtues of young people that values, is a Christian and appreciates the value of Catholic religion. On this occasion I want to describe moral evil, for, even the crime of physical and mental violence, about which I have learned that it is a long-standing practice in a youth educational centre applied to young people requiring psychological and pedagogical assistance, and this centre is run by the local government politically created by the PO. What example, then, of caring for the welfare of the young generation? What educational methods? What morale of self-government, which for each child receives more than 8 thousand. zł a month from the government of the United Right? Educators in this facility use violence against their children. The case is swept under the carpet, only members of the county board and heads of the educational center change, because it's a golden hen for the county, this resort. I hope I will lay my hand on this to punish, despite the P.O.'s governments responsible for this state of affairs. So what is the real model of raising and education children by the liberals of the PO? In a few days, another anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. Warsaw defended itself for 63 days. A huge sacrifice in this armed raid against the invader was made by Warsaw's youth. There would be no sacrifice without the virtues of heroism and courage, self-sacrifice... the 20-year-old Hanka Kolczanka from the battalion of Zośka fell. Thank you, Warsaw. Thank you for your children.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u293	Yesterday was the 78th anniversary of the announcement of the Polish National Liberation Committee (PKWN) on Radio Moscow. During the period of the Polish People's Republic, the day of July 22 was one of the most important public holidays celebrated as the National Festival of the Rebirth of Poland until 1989. The creation of the PKWN was de facto the submission of Stalin to our country. Edward Ostoka-Morawski became president of PKWN and vice-presidents were: Andrzej Witos and Wanda Wasilewska. The PKWN Manifesto was the most important document identifying the beginnings of the People's Poland. The Communist National Council was designated as the only source of power in Poland, which legitimized PKWN as a temporary executive authority, while the emigration government in London was declared illegal. The Polish western border was to run in Oder, while the eastern line, so-called. Curzon's line was to be based on the principle of a friendly neighbourhood, and the eastern Polish lands were to be transferred to Soviet Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania. This document provided for a lasting alliance with the Soviet Union and close cooperation with the Red Army. There was also a confiscating of the property in the hands of the German occupier, traitors of the nation and landlords. Agricultural reform was also envisaged, i.e. Retrieving more than 50 hectares of land and retrieving more than 100 hectares of land. The Manifesto of PKWN was completed with the words: "Family! There are gigantic tasks ahead of us. We will continue to pursue them tirelessly and decisively. We will reject the warlords, the reaction agents, who, by breaking up national unity, through attempts to provoke fights between Poles, are at the mercy of Hitlerism. The tasks of the liberation of Poland, reconstruction of statehood, bringing war to a victorious end, gaining a worthy place for Poland in the world, starting the reconstruction of the destroyed country - here are our main tasks. On this anniversary, let us remember how our country's freedom, sovereignty and democracy were taken away under the pretext of democratic action.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-sejm-35-3.u294	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 35th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 36th session of the Sejm, convened for 11 August 2021, will be served to you and to your fellow Members. We're adjourned. Thank you all. [[Thank you, Marshal.]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 17 min 07]]
