ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u1	I open the twenty-eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Mariusz Gromko. And where is our second secretary? Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Mr. Senator, let's get to work. [[Voice from the room: From covid mode...]] That's how it's done, that 2 secretaries are at the president's table. Dear Senators, in connection with the epidemic, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a hybrid formula, as has been the case so far, but as a novel, we have introduced a meeting in one Chamber However, as you will notice, several senators of different options participate remotely, which is governed by Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches in discussions and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously forwarded to you. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after the Speaker has given the Speaker's speech to the Speaker and after the microphone has been launched by the Senate's IT Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended to establish only the list of senators currently taking part in the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I will remind the senators taking part in the meeting remotely that the opening of the vote, so-called. polling in Webex causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 buttons after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Let one of the remote people see if she pressed the right button, i.e. You're gonna pass it on to me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 93 senators voted. And so many are currently attending the meeting. High Senate, I inform you that on 7 June 2021, the Attorney General transmitted to the Senate an open annual notice to the Prosecutor General of the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of interviews or an application for operational control. This document is included in print No 420. On 10 June this year, I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which took note of this document at its meeting on 21 July. I would also like to inform you that on 29 June the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration informed the Senate about the activities of the Police, the Office of Internal Surveillance and the State Protection Service for 2020. The document is contained in print No 442. On 13 July 2021, I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the document at its meeting on 21 July. I would also like to inform you that on 14 July 2021, the Minister of Justice informed the Senate about the processing of telecommunications, postal and internet data and the results of the audits carried out in 2020. This information is included in print No 459. 21 July this year I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which took note of the information at its meeting on 3 August 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its thirty-fiveth meeting on 23 July this year. adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Power Market Act and certain other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 25th, 25th and 20th sessions, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that, at the request of the resorts, the second, third and fifth points, points seven to eleven, points thirteen and fourteen, points seventeen to nineteen, and points twenty-first to twenty-four of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 160th anniversary of the death of Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. At the request of the resorts, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the last... This is not a request from the Ministry, but... I propose to change the order of consideration of the last item on the agenda: the Minister of Health's information on the state of preparation in relation to the threat of the fourth wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland and consider it as the first point; the previous point on the 13th... And that's those requests. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the previous point 13th: the Law on Aid and Loan Funds and considering it as the second point; the previous paragraph 14th: the Act on amending the Law on Real Estate Management and some other laws and consider it as the third point; and the 15th point: the Law amending the Law on State Labour Inspection and consider it as point four. If I do not hear the opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 20th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would also like to inform you that a half-hour break will be announced on Thursday at 12:00 p.m. for the opening of the exhibition entitled: An animal is not a thing. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: information from the Minister of Health on the state of preparation in relation to the risk of the emergence of the fourth wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland. I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting, our fellow senator, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Waldemar Kraska. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for such a nice welcome. I hope that this discussion will be purely substantive and also in a pleasant atmosphere. I have the honour to present the Minister of Health's information on the state of preparation in relation to the threat of the fourth wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshal, may I begin by presenting in a few sentences the current epidemic situation in our country. I think this will be a good starting point for us to present our plans and what we've prepared for this moment in connection with a possible fourth wave of pandemics. Today we have 164 new cases of coronavirus infection. It doesn't seem like much, but if we compare a week to a week, which is today's result to that of the previous Wednesday, then we'll see that those cases were 136. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you to focus.]] We can see that there's an increase of over 20%. It seems, on these numbers, that it is not much, but for several days now we have seen a trend of growth, slow, but increasing in terms of new cases of coronavirus infection. The number of tests that are performed daily also oscillates at approximately similar levels, i.e. the values of about 41 thousand tests, whether carried out in ambulances or commissioned by primary health care doctors. At present, we have 292 patients in hospitalization. I will remind you that at the moment in Polish hospitals we have intended for patients with COVID-19 6,000 72 beds. The help of ventilators, i.e. intensive care units, must now be used by 39 patients infected with the coronavirus. We have 595 respirator beds ready for this moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also looking very closely at the so-called. the virus reproduction rate, or the R indicator, which shows how many people are infected by the sick person. Right now, for our country, this indicator is over 1, that's 1,13. Several voivodships, unfortunately, bump on the forehead. In the first place, with regard to the value of this indicator, the Podkarpackie Voivodeship is 1,36. The second place is Warmińsko-Mazurskie Voivodeship 1,31, followed by Małopolskie, Śląskie and Opolskie Voivodship. We're seeing a gradual increase in viral reproduction rates. This is disturbing information. It is easy to predict that the next stage will unfortunately be the increase of infections in these voivodships. The Minister of Health and the entire Council of Ministers shall monitor and analyse the epidemiological situation in the country on an ongoing basis in order to exploit the potential we currently have. Maybe I'll start with the research potential, which is the potential of the labs, which not only test for the presence of coronavirus, but also study the genome, test the mutation. Our aim for autumn was for every municipality, in each POZ to be able to perform an antigen test, and this possibility exists. We're passing tests to POZ. Practically any person who applies to the primary point of health care and will require such a test shall be tested. We've introduced different rules for PCR tests. We want the result of this examination to be transmitted to the patient within a period of not more than 24 hours. Within the functioning network of COVID laboratories, which is coordinated by a special team appointed by the Minister of Health, we now have 322 laboratories in the country that can perform PCR tests. One to two of these labs arrives within a week. As of today, we have the opportunity to perform 166,000 tests a day. These laboratories are mostly labs that have signed contracts with the National Health Fund, but there are also commercial labs that are on this list. As of today, we have about 500 download points, including drive-thru points, where we can take a sample and perform a test for the presence of Coronavirus. It is also very important to study mutations, which unfortunately appear more and more frequently in our country. At the Ministry of Health a special team was formed, at the head of which I have the pleasure to stand, this team monitors the emergence of new mutations in our country. In addition to the representative of the Ministry of Health, this team includes the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the Chief Sanitary Inspector of the Polish Army and representatives of other services responsible for carrying out such tests. At the moment, we have a network of labs that run genetic tests on the virus. It's so-called. SARS-CoV-2 virus sequencing. This is happening at the moment in 6 laboratories of state sanitary and epidemiological stations, in 3 academic centres, i.e. in Białystok, Gdansk and Łódź, and of course in the hygiene plant in Warsaw. By July 30, this year, we have performed more than 11,000 tests involving full genomic virus sequencing. The results come down to us every day. The point is to know what mutation dominates in Poland at the moment. Of course, not only in Europe, but also in the whole world, we are practically no longer investigating this classic Coronavirus. The Alpha variety, the British variety, is also replaced by the Delta variety, which is definitely beginning to dominate our country as well. This is a variety that is far more contagious than the previous one. At the moment, it will take only a few minutes to get infected in the presence of a person who is sick, who is a carrier. There is also an interactive map where we can track the emergence of new mutations every day. These outbreaks are, of course, immediately isolated and developed by sanitary and epidemiological stations, so that the spread of new variants is as small as possible. In the initial period these mutations were mainly imported to Poland from the outside. At this moment we see that these are also our fires, which means that this mutation is definitely beginning to spread very actively in our country. Well, that's disturbing, because we see that it's definitely more contagious than the last one. All the research that we have right now, not only from Europe but also from Poland, shows that it affects, as it seems, more than ninety-five percent of people who are not vaccinated, who are not vaccinated, are suffering from this right now. Also in Poland about 50% those who are ill are those in the age range of twenty to forty a few years, i.e. de facto young and healthy people. This is another reason for us to pay particular attention to vaccinations, and this vaccination in this particular group. The second element in which we were prepared for this fourth wave, but this element has also been modified many times in previous waves, is medical rescue. We know that medical rescue is the first line on which there is contact with a patient who may be suspected of being infected or infected. That is why we have also maintained some solutions in the fourth wave, which have already been developed and have worked out in the previous period. We're talking here, for example. about the possibilities of so-called. S team, i.e. a specialist team, in whose composition, as defined in the Act on State Medical Rescue, should be a doctor. During the pandemic period, a doctor can withdraw from this ambulance, and a lifeguard may be designated to replace it. In the primary teams, we've reduced our duty or we've waived our five-year internship for rescuers who are team managers. We also, of course, maintain this, and continue to do so. The same is true with medical dispatchers: in their case, we have also limited this requirement for pandemics. We also extended the period of validity of the certificate to obtain the title of lifeguard for the pandemic period and 60 days after it was completed. I think it is important to extend their privileges when it comes to improving the work of rescuers. We've allowed paramedics to download material from the upper respiratory tract, which is to perform antigen tests for the presence of coronavirus. I think it not only definitely improved the comfort of lifeguards' work, because after the test they knew what patient they were dealing with, but at the same time improved logistics, because it was known where to direct the patient, to which branch. We also eased the requirements for rescuers who wanted to return to their profession after a break. We have slowed down from training, and if the break has been longer than 3 months, the lifeguard who returns to work must work under the supervision of a doctor or another medical emergency worker. What worked out in the previous waves, also in the event of the fourth wave, is the possible addition of additional medical rescue teams. You know, at the time of the previous wave, there was actually a problem that ambulances had been coming to patients for quite a long time, because all the logistics The costume costume, the patient's examination in protective clothing, then the transmission was time-consuming and it all took time. And then, of course, there's also an ambulance disinfection. Those ambulances weren't enough for a while, so we gave the voivodships a disposition that they could contract additional medical rescue teams. There were 161 such teams in the third wave, which cost the state budget over 42 million across the country. And that's what we're keeping in the fall as well. In some voivodship, if it is necessary to do so, if the voivode states that it is necessary to contract such an additional team, it will, of course, be given the opportunity and funding. We also increased... we changed the rules to speed up the implementation of the various stages of medical rescue. We know it's like the Achilles' heel is an ambulance disinfection. These statuses, which were included by the team, because now all this is done electronically, unfortunately, as if they were shutting off an ambulance from the system, it was not active. We want to speed up this process through such a change of disinfectants so that they don't shut down the medical rescue team for so long. The medical examiner will also see that the ambulance is in the process of disinfection. And if this continues or the ambulance stays too long either in the emergency room or in the hospital emergency department, it will be direct contact with the ambulance dispatcher and possibly speed up this process or explain why this process is taking so long. We have also integrated the State Medical Rescue Command System with the so-called. the EWP system. This means that if the ambulance is in place and the antigen test is carried out there and the test is positive, then the dispatcher immediately introduces this result into the system, which is de facto at the same time we know whether this patient is ill or not. We have also greatly improved the provision of information about free hospital beds. This system worked out, and now we've expanded it with other elements. It is a system that allows the transmission of information to the medical dispatcher, the coordinator, but not only for people who are in the ambulance. It allows them to obtain information about where there is a free bed for a patient with a coronavirus, whether diagnostic equipment is available in a given hospital or if there are personal protective equipment. This system also allows you to book a bed for a patient with COVID. We continue to maintain these patterns of conduct that we have spent, for dispatchers and for medical rescue teams. I think these schematics, like... that a patient with a saturation of 94% And the lower one should be taken from the vending machine to the hospital... Of course, all this is just a recommendation, but I know that medical rescue teams were quite meticulously following this recommendation. Although there are conditions such as chronic respiratory failure, which by nature causes the sats in such a patient to be significantly lower... Well, then it's the decision of the team leader: whether we take this patient to the hospital or leave him at home. And one last thing: every patient who is taken by an ambulance has a test done. Are there any concerns about whether these symptoms are present, the patient is subjected to such an antigen test in the ambulance. We are now moving on to hospital infrastructure, because I think it is also very important that a patient who is already ill, has proper care, goes to the ward where they will take care of him. Today we have access to 6,000 77 beds for patients with COVID-19, including up to 595 respirator beds. There are currently 639 beds in temporary hospitals, including 137 ventilator beds, of which 295 beds are occupied in these hospitals, and the ventilators are 40. At the end of April, we reorganized hospital care because the number of infections was significantly lower and there was no need to maintain such a large number of beds. Together with the voivodships we have updated security plans and now plans are prepared for each voivodship, there are indicated specific beds, specific hospitals, we expect that these beds will need about 11 thousand 340, that's how we got it right now... Of course, we can expand this base, the previous waves have shown that this is done in a fairly efficient way, and I think all hospitals are used to it. Two and a half thousand beds we set aside for so-called. the first level, i.e. mainly in county hospitals, are so-called. buffer beds, i.e. beds for a patient suspected of being infected or infected with a coronavirus. We want, of course, depending on the size of the hospital, to make these beds between 3 and 5 in each hospital. As far as the second level is concerned, we want these beds already typically intended for patients with COVID-19 At the moment, 12 temporary hospitals are active in Poland. Of course, this activity is definitely limited. These hospitals operate in Dolnośląskie, Lublin, Lubuskie, Małopolskie, Mazowieckie, Opole, Podkarpackie, Podlaskie, Silesia, Zachodniopomorskie and 2 hospitals in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship here are 2 because these are hospitals that have been operating on the basis of stationary hospitals since the beginning and these beds are kept there. So right now we have 639 beds in temporary hospitals in these 12 active hospitals. In readiness to provide benefits we have 11 more hospitals so-called. passive, i.e. hospitals, which are equipped with equipment, with all the infrastructure, without staffing facilities. They're just on standby. These hospitals we have at the moment 11 and a reserve of beds in case they need to be run, that's 2.5 thousand. We've changed a little bit not only the way we finance it, but also the model of hospital care. I'll remind you that before we had a model based on three levels. Level one was patients with suspicion, level two. Patients with pre-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, and level three were so-called. specialized sites for these patients. At the moment, we have introduced a model based on 2 levels. Level one is beds that are in every hospital, and level two is these are beds for patients with COVID-19 infection, beds with intensive therapy, cardio monitor, oxygen therapy and mechanical ventilation. The financing of entities is mixed, i.e. a lump sum fee for readiness and the cost of hospitalisation. We want a patient who hits, for example. to a county hospital with a diagnosis of acute appendicitis and has a test performed, and this test comes out positive, which means the patient is infected with the coronavirus, was not sent away elsewhere, but was operated in this hospital. Medical personnel are now practically secured, personal protective equipment are also available. Of course, for such a patient, the NFZ will pay extra money to compensate for all possible costs associated with handling this patient. In this way, we want to avoid unnecessary referrals to another hospital. Well, sometimes it caused the patient's exposure to loss of health and life. Right now, we want these patients to be treated in those hospitals they're going to. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mrs. Marshal, we wanted to do this, and we have now opened reserves and material resources. By the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, a lot of equipment and materials were transferred to Polish health care during the previous waves. I'll just give you a few examples: 25 CTs, 17,000 ventilators, 115 digital X-rays, 12,000 cardio monitors, 2,000 800 EKG cameras, 240 ultrasounds. Next: hospital beds Over 7,000 suits, 8 million aprons, 11 million FP2 masks, 18 million half masks, 5 million masks, 400 million medical masks, gloves More than 300 million, pinholes 4.5 million, goggles 3.5 million, shoe covers 3.5 million. These are very large numbers that show how big the effort of the state was to secure health care units in our country when it comes to equipment not only personal protection, but also diagnostic equipment. These reserves are opened, we have full control, and if there are deficiencies and the voivodships report it, they are constantly replenished. We have conducted and are continuing training for medical personnel. We've conducted vaccination trainings, we've included a group of physiotherapists and laboratory diagnostics. These were 2 courses: a course that was designed to train the qualification for vaccination, and a course that gives the possibility to carry out such vaccination. From 1 April to 30 June 2021 in the field of vaccination against COVID-19, we trained 13,000 756 people, including 5.5,000 physiotherapists, almost 7,000 are pharmacists, 1,165 are lab diagnies. In terms of carrying out the qualification for vaccination, we have conducted training for 14,000 730 people. Among them are not only those performing these previously mentioned professions, but there are also 279 students of the fifth and sixth year of medical studies and the third year of first degree studies in nursing. A total of 28,000 487 people were trained and certified. Training continues and will continue until 30 September this year. In addition, we have conducted and continue to provide medical training in the care of ventilators. These are actually 2 courses that train to conduct patients on the so-called. observation and mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit. By December last year we trained almost 120 people in this direction, at the moment 99 people are being trained. These courses are still being conducted, mainly by medical universities. It is conducted, in cooperation with the voivodship consultants and the national consultant, Internet training, refresher training, showing how to conduct and treat a patient infected with COVID-19, because, as studies show, this patient requires a slightly different method of conducting and treating than a typical patient who is in the intensive care unit. A group of doctors from outside the European Union, but not only doctors, because also nurses and midwives, medical assistants with qualifications, powered our system. As far as doctors and dentists are concerned, 682 applications were received by the Ministry of Health. So far we have issued 414 positive and 10 negative decisions. As far as nurses and midwives are concerned, 249 applications were received and, if medical rescuers were taken into account, these were 17. During COVID, medical personnel who were employed directly with a COVID-19 infected patient received the so-called. a covidative supplement. For this purpose we have allocated and spent 5 billion PLN 710 million. It's a very big, powerful money. Over 36,500 doctors, over 53,000 nurses and over 19,000 medical rescuers and 13,000 other medical personnel employed in patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 have benefited from this additional salary. We've also improved And I think it's already passing the so-called exam. refusal to take an infected patient or suspected of being infected with SARS-COV-2 into a hospital emergency department or emergency room. At the moment, a patient who is being led by a medical emergency team already has a test done, which means this test is already reliable, this test is already taken by the emergency room and the SOR recognized. So do we. And that's what we've put in place. So that there are buffer beds in every hospital so that the patient can stay in the hospital despite a positive test result. And, of course, there's also a national system that talks about beds in hospitals, beds that can be used for patients with COVID-19. I think the most important element in the fight against the fourth wave is vaccination, and that is undisputed. I think that each one of us is aware that only vaccinations can protect us from another increase in disease, from a possible fourth wave, the effects of which, as I said earlier, can be seen in Europe as an increase not only in the number of positive cases, but also in the number of people who go to hospitals. Specialists, experts say that the prominence of the Polish society should be at the level of 75-80%. Some say it should be even higher, because the new mutation, the Delta mutation, is particularly contagious. This is why a much higher percentage of our society's empowerment is required here. At the beginning of the epidemic, we talked about 60% of the classic Coronavirus, but at the moment the safety threshold has shifted significantly the other way, which is up. This is why vaccination and the promotion of vaccination is so important. The Ministry of Health is very active in this promotion through the production of various advertising spots, through updates on its website. We have also participated in many different conferences and briefings, which have talked about the benefits of vaccination, the vaccination of our citizens. Also the KPRM law firm, whose proxy for vaccination is Minister Michał Dworczyk, very actively in various ways promotes vaccination, but I may not talk about it anymore. In addition, as the Ministry of Health at the end of the previous year, in the fourth quarter, we started working with the Government of Great Britain, which was and continues to be a leader in the fight against the so-called. disinformation on vaccination. Many of the good solutions that have been given to us by the United Kingdom have been applied. In August, further deliveries of vaccines will be sent to Poland. And so: August 9th will be almost 1 million 400 thousand Pfizer vaccines, over 400,000 Moderna vaccines, and 1,300 thousand Johnson & Johnson vaccines. A total of 4 million 176,000 Pfizer vaccines, 2 million 55,000 Moderna vaccines and 786,000 Johnson & Johnson vaccines will reach Poland in August alone. How many vaccines did Poland buy in total? This may also be of interest to you: AstraZeneca, 16 million, Johnson & Johnson, nearly 17 million, for Pfizer there are 2 contracts for the total of 50 million, Moderna, over 10 million, CureVac, 5 million 650 thousand. So in total, this is 99 million 450,000 vaccines. At the moment, the first dose is more than 18 million and the second dose is vaccinated in Poland. More than 16 million. In total, more than 17.5 million people are fully vaccinated. Unfortunately, we observe that the interest in vaccinations has fallen in recent weeks. And hence all these actions promoting and explaining the advantages of vaccination. Today we can say that we will vaccinate about 40,000 Poles a day. Of course, we want there to be a lot more. Vaccinations are now carried out at 7,000 961 points. Of these 6,000 525 are so-called. population points, node points, that is, hospitals. There are 423 of them. In temporary hospitals, because even in those that are not active, these points are functioning at present we have 26. Mobile points, which are created in mountainous areas and rural areas, today we have 111. Mobile Departure Points. to patients who can't report themselves to the hospital we have 121. Vaccine points in the so-called "implantation points'. large public utility facilities, that is, we are talking about sports halls, stadiums, showrooms, and today we have 624. So-called drive-thru points, which are created in parking lots and large squares, for today is 24. There are also points that vaccinate in open drugstores because at the moment there is also a possibility that we can inoculate ourselves in a pharmacist, that is, in a pharmacy. At present, there are 568 such points. And there are so-called. single-person mobile points, i.e. that a qualified medical worker arrives at a given location. Today we have 262 of them. The last element, which I think is also very important, is the State Sanitary Inspection. At the moment, an internal fourth wave team was set up and operated, appointed by the Chief Health Officer. There is, of course, work at the moment to harmonise procedures and processes. Also a very important role, which this team plays, is the sanitary protection of borders. An electronic passenger location card has been entered. I think this makes the work of the State Sanitary Inspection much easier in the event of a possible positive case in terms of the location and reduction of this outbreak. Health services have also been actively involved in testing variants of the virus. Six laboratories of the State Sanitary Inspection have been made available. The situation has also greatly improved in terms of how to reduce and diagnose those outbreaks that occur in the country. Of course it's been improved and it's working right now. The integration of the SETIS system together with the EWP service to show the positive cases that arise from laboratories as soon as possible. Mrs. Marshal, that's all for starters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask questions... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] ...Mr. Minister. I have a list, and I'm just repeating the formula. Let me... There's a list of questions. I have two questions for you first. The first question concerns the health care situation. Will this situation affect the preparation for the fourth wave? I ask this because a few weeks ago, health workers negotiated with the Minister of Health, but this did not lead to consensus and is announced the date of strike of all health professionals on September 11th. We know that as early as June, nurses were protesting, then paramedics, and some of them were mass quitters. What will this situation do to prepare for the fourth wave? What are the Ministry and what are the government going to do? How do they want to deal with these problems? Well, the worst thing would be if the protests in the health care department were to impose on the coming fourth wave. That's my first question. My second question concerns the government's position and action against the attacks on vaccination points in general. We're getting more and more like that. There were robberies, as early as March there was a robbery at the Poznań health centre, now again in several places. How do the Ministry and the government intend to protect above all medical workers who work at these vaccination sites? And how will the promotional action develop? I'm also asking because I think we need to do this. There's more to it than what's being done. This campaign doesn't get where it's supposed to go. How are these unofficial informations about the planned lockdown to reality? Isn't it possible to promote people who have been vaccinated so that lockdown isn't complete? These are my two questions. I'd really ask for answers. [[Secretary of State at Waldemar Kraska Ministry of Health: Right away, right?]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for these questions. Indeed, a health - care protest is announced at 9/11. I think we can solve anything at the table, you don't have to go out on the street. There is a trialogue, and yesterday this team also worked when we are talking about developing additional funds for the remuneration of Polish health services. Besides, it is written in Polish Łada, so that it seems that at the next meeting of the Sejm there will be discussed a law increasing to 7% GDP expenditures on Polish health care. That's why I think this is not the way I'm talking about protesting in this way during the pandemic. Let's talk, meet, we as the Ministry of Health are always open to dialogue and this dialogue takes place, it is conducted with different environments, but mainly in the forum of this trilateral team. I think this is the most appropriate path that should be preserved and that we should continue. In recent days, there has actually been a worrying trend in the already physical attack of vaccination points and workers who work at these points. I personally thought that this border would not be exceeded, that it would be limited to what was happening on social media, on Internet forums. I respect all beliefs, everyone can have their opinions about vaccinations as well. As a doctor, I've always encouraged myself and my family to immunize. Right now I'm asking for vaccination, too, because I think this is the only way we're gonna get out of this pandemic. The more that this vaccine is really tested, it's effective, it's safe. I'm meeting with a big hey, too, with a big attack on myself. But what happened at the moment in our country, a direct physical attack on the points of adhesion, on the workers who work at these points, that's really scary. In my opinion, it's scary, it's scary that we're at a point in time that people who call themselves anti-vaccines are going to do this kind of thing. Our consent... I guarantee that a large-scale effective action will be taken to ensure that further incidents of this type do not occur and, if they occur, the service will certainly be responsible for this. We just don't have our permission to do it. Right now we're talking to the police chief. All vaccination points will be additionally monitored by the services. In the event of such a situation, patrols will be sent immediately and these points will be monitored by police services at the moment. We also want to introduce a statutory provision for any employee who is currently working at the vaccination centre to be treated as a state official. For attacking such a person, there is a far greater penalty, so I think it might also be an element that will deter them from attacking such points. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, in my opinion, as Minister Niedzielski called them, acts of terrorism. This threatens not only the health and life of our citizens, but also the safety of our entire country. If there's a large accumulation of disease, the fourth wave, if you have to announce lockdown, it'll put you at risk. We're in economic danger. We can't let that happen. So our consent to such actions will not be, with full severity we will exterminate it. Your marshal has also pointed out the promotion of vaccination. I have always, since the beginning of the pandemic, argued, encouraged vaccination, presented concrete scientific evidence, concrete research. Anti-vaccine workers act in a rather intelligent way, using certain research, removing convenient statistics from the context, which obviously does not reflect reality. It appears on many social media, unfortunately it is passed on by many people, and it is sowing a great, great ferment among those who are still uninsected, who hesitate to immunize themselves. So my appeal from this speaker is that we should, however, reach out to these proven sources, rely on those who have been involved in vaccinations for many years. I think this is the only source we can rely on. As far as promotion is concerned, I think the role of a family doctor is also very important here. The family doctor knows his patients, he knows the entire population of his patients, and he also has at the moment that we gave him access to information about who is not vaccinated. He de facto knows which one of his patients didn't take the vaccine, so he can get to him directly. Of course, you need to encourage people who are in the risk group, i.e. seniors, older people who are very hard to get infected with the coronavirus, which are most often hospitalized, and also die most often. Sometimes these people do not apply to their family doctor for various reasons, and I think that such a conversation with a doctor who is an authority for a given person, someone who has been known for many years as a doctor can, for example. suggest that this person arrives with an away team and administers the vaccine on site may be the best solution. So that this appeal was addressed to family doctors. There is also appropriate congratulation, depending on the level of implantation of a given population. This is another element that is supposed to encourage family doctors to do this activity not only to promote, but also to physically actually vaccinate the population of their patients. And I urge all of you to do so. Wherever we are, we participate in many different events, many different celebrations Let's promote these vaccinations. Let us not forget that we too have a duty to do everything to make Polish society healthy and safe. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Halina Poor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! You have already partially answered my question, because your marshal has told me, but I would also like to ask about the positive motivation. Will the Ministry recommend to the government that in addition to this lottery that is... Not everyone joins her, she's not for everyone. But will they be assured or promised that if lockdown occurs, they will be able to move freely, and will they be able to participate in cultural events? Some regions, some countries, already apply such rules or arrangements today. People who have been vaccinated there can use everything freely. Does the Ministry provide for such privileges in terms of positive motivation, incentives for vaccination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u7	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! That's a very good question. We observe the situation in other countries. Indeed, there are some restrictions that are excluded from vaccinations. That's probably what motivates these people, too. An example of France is always given, where over 1 million people have signed up for vaccinations in one day when the president announced that uninstalled persons cannot use, for example. from a restaurant or from other cultural goods. This is definitely... This is what we are discussing, especially at the Medical Council, which is still working with the Prime Minister. The subject is also quite complicated, I think, Senator, because it will all depend, of course, on the epidemiological situation. Well, we're not planning such restrictions right now, but we're not ruling them out either. The case is open, everything will depend on the wisdom of Poles, because we still have a few weeks before us, in which we can inoculate. I think that this fourth wave will reach us at the moment differently from our data, it results perhaps at the end of August or mid-September. These models, unfortunately, are not accurate for a simple reason: we do not know how many more people will be vaccinated in the coming weeks. The previous waves were easier to predict, at the moment experts are taking great care of it. These models, e.g. show that if the rate of vaccination is roughly the same as at the moment, i.e. not too high, about 14 and 15 thousand cases of infections should be expected daily. Well, that's a pretty big number. But if within the next few weeks we were to give birth to a dozen million Poles, it would be about 1,000 infections a day. However, of course, these are models that predict, and here there is no certainty that these forecasts will work. But we have to rely on something. The benefits of vaccination... Well, for me as a doctor, the greatest benefit is health and life, well, there is no greater benefit. This is not always the case, especially for young people who think they will always be young and healthy, but, as life shows, especially young and uninstalled people are now going to hospitals and also from this group are recruited people who unfortunately die from COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask Senator Alicia Chybick's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question one. What about testing the effectiveness of vaccination in the context of the third vaccination dose? Are you planning to donate some professional groups for the third time? Are you gonna do this after you've tested the levels of antibodies and cellular immunity? Because you can have these antibodies, but you have a good record of cellular immunity. Question two, relating to the fourth wave. How will the first line work? As before, remotely, will many suffer greatly from delayed diagnosis? Because you can't recognize any new disease remotely. You can extend your treatment, you can issue a prescription. Is there going to be a change in this matter? And another, third, final question. How will the specialist work? Will special forces close again and suffer many chronically and severely ill people? Well, that's what happened in the previous pitch. We still can't get out of the green island called oncology. I'm not even asking... Well, oncology was a green island. But what green island? So that at the moment the tsunami hits all the oncology centers, those for adults and children, because of the poor functioning of health care in the pandemic. Is there anything you can do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, first question, third dose. Well, this subject is beginning to appear in many countries at the moment. Recent reports from our neighbours across the western border are that in the autumn they want to administer this third dose to selected groups, mainly we are talking about seniors, people who are in the highest risk group, people with multiple diseases, people who have reduced immunity, e.g. during chemotherapy. I think this will also be considered during the meetings of our Medical Council. We are prepared for this, but, of course, at the moment, the board has not presented such recommendations yet, so no decisions have been made here. Will this be preceded by a study? I'm not exactly an expert in this area, so I don't know if it's necessary or if it's gonna disrupt the logistics of this third dose, which is why I'm not gonna answer that question. The next two questions are connected, the professor was talking about the first line, which I believe is family doctors. I think that at the moment the implantation in the Polish health service, as far as doctors are concerned, is more than ninety-six percent of the vaccinated doctors. So they're safe now. So I don't see the basis for not examining, not watching, not talking to him in his office. I'm sure the teleport is a good method, but not on the first visit. If we continue treatment and want to see how the drug works on the patient, what the effect of this medicine is, yes, of course, but this is the first study... I don't even mention children anymore, because it's a standard that should always be, but it should also apply to adults. Well, we have signals that through teleports, unfortunately many people had a diagnosis made far too late. Unfortunately, this results in some events that can no longer be reversed. So that I can't imagine the specialist being locked up and not functioning. At the moment, there are no indications that the doctors' offices will not work during the next wave. At the moment, we are constantly monitoring access to the primary family care doctor, we are also monitoring the offices of specialist doctors and, as of today, maybe it is caused by this small number of infections, we do not have signals that something disturbing in this area cannon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u13	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, is the health department willing to recommend the use of these restrictions in a selective way and to exempt fully vaccinated persons and their children at a age where they cannot yet be vaccinated? In my question, there are two reasons. First of all, which is obvious, I want to promote vaccination. I believe that releasing vaccinated people from the restrictions would certainly contribute to an increased interest in the vaccination programme, with which, as we know, you yourself have shown today the shocking indicators, we have a serious problem. But there's also a second bottom in my question. Well, as a practice of economic life, Minister, I am very concerned about the condition of our companies. I am particularly concerned about the situation of the services sector, with particular emphasis on hotels and gastronomy. Leaving the possibility of using e.g. from hotel services to people fully vaccinated and their children can actually, Minister, save many entrepreneurs from this sector. My second question, Minister, concerns preparations for the new school year. How do you see the Minister's opening? What are the analyses of the Ministry of Health in this area at the moment, and what recommendations can we expect from you? I know that this question concerns part of the area of operation of another department, but I am curious about the recommendations of the health department. Please also inform whether children and adolescents will be able to benefit, for example, in the case of older children and adolescents if there is a need for sharpening of vaccinated persons. from a stationary form of teaching. And my last question, Minister. Does the Minister have any information on whether or not and if so, when Will it be possible to vaccinate against COVID-19 children? Because it arouses the greatest emotions in our country. I am aware that this is of course a question to the European Medicines Agency, but I assume that the Minister has frequent contacts with the Agency and that he has such knowledge. And if you could give it to me, tell me what the situation is, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u15	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u16	They were supposed to be 2, they're 4, but thank you very much for these questions. I know they're important, Senator. First of all... Maybe from the end: when will the next year be eventually vaccinated? Well, we're expecting a decision from the European Medicines Agency soon, maybe it'll be the end of August, early September. Then it'll be... I know that at the moment this process of certification by the European Medicines Agency for lower yearbooks is ending. So I think it'll be very soon. If we discuss... [[But there's no deadline yet, Minister?]] No, no, like I said, it could be the end of August, the beginning of September. [[Sure.]] When it comes to starting a new school year, last week we had quite a long meeting with the representatives of the Ministry of Education, with Minister Czarnek, with the Deputy Ministers, we had a long talk about the beginning of the school year. At this point, it seems that the school year will begin in a stationary form, which means that all children will return to school. We would very much like this to happen because, well, it's very important, not only for learning by these children, but also from a purely psychological point of view. The child needs contact with his peers, it is very loud at the moment that psychologists and child psychiatrists raise, they say that really remote science or hybrid science brings very great damage, depending on age, but practically all children who participate in this science. So, well, it seems at this point that on September 1st, the kids are going to go back to school. Especially since they are developed together with us by the Ministry of Education various options for a possible increase in the number of diseases. There will also be additional safeguards. At the moment at each school is manually measured temperature, the Ministry of National Education wants to buy special goals that will measure this temperature faster, increase so to speak, capacity. A child who goes into school will have a measured temperature. All these rules that have been in force so far, namely ventilation, the non-crossing of communication routes, will also be respected. Well, it's like the schematics have already been worked out. And I hope they work. We've been vaccinated at the moment, according to sources, over 70%. Teachers, so that's a pretty high quality too. So the safety of the staff that teaches is pretty high. So, I think September 1st the kids should go back to school. As it goes on, it will, of course, depend on the epidemiological situation in our country. The first two questions concerned vaccinated persons and the economy. Well, in fact, it is very important to avoid such losses as during previous waves, individual lockdowns have certainly been suffered. Despite these shields, which were aimed at entrepreneurs, they certainly suffered considerable losses. And we want to avoid it. So, what the senator was talking about, some kind of demonstration that people who have been vaccinated can use certain services... You mentioned hotel services... Besides, the economic sectors are asking the Minister of Health, but not only, also the Prime Minister, to ask him to do just that, as you say, so that people who have been vaccinated can benefit from... Maybe that's what's gonna happen. Well, there aren't any decisions yet. This will certainly be considered when the situation in the country changes. So, well, it's all ahead of us. But I'm sure there are variants on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u18	Madam Marshal, Minister, the first question: I would like you to clarify... I mean, what did the senator, Professor Chybick, ask you? You said you couldn't imagine that POZ clinics and specialist clinics wouldn't work. Please say yes, they will function normally. Is that just your opinion? You can't imagine it as Senator Kraska? Please be clear: they will, they won't, or we'll see. Minister, I appreciate you, but this isn't about your opinion, it's about whether the government is determined to do so. That's the first question. The second question relates to vaccination. Well, I have to say, all these lotteries, all these actions, it's worth doing, because every one of them is a benefit, but somehow you don't come up with ideas that would kidnap the Poles. First of all, why isn't the education system even involved? I don't see you guys treating school as a place where vaccination is promoted. Minister, I studied self-government in 1990. In Sweden, I was explained how the segregation system was introduced. Do you know where the promotion of this segregation system began? Since kindergarten. Because the baby was coming home and saying, "Mom, you have to do this anyway." And I see that Minister Czarnek is happy to talk about the virtues of the women, but that he should clearly say that he is behind vaccinations and will promote them at school, introduce such educational elements, I have not heard. I therefore encourage you, Minister, to consider this subject. Education is a very important element, it can be used nicely to promote these vaccinations. Let your granddaughter come and say, Grandpa, get vaccinated. It's an amazing force. Minister, the third question is also related to this. I understand that how do you... It's actually a request, a suggestion. You go to meetings of the United Right Club. Does the Minister have the kind of speeches you had today? Are you making it clear that vaccination is something... And if not, I encourage you to convince all Members of the United Right that it is not worth walking into children's homes or doing other such activities. It is worth respecting, as the Minister said, the opinion of others, because this is something that, of course, depends on the decision of each of us, but power should promote what is good for society. I encourage you to repeat those words that we heard today in the Senate during such a meeting. And two more questions, that sort of organizational...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u19	Mr. Senator, you're welcome, because it's already... [[Next round? Okay, I'm gonna end this and...]] Next round. I'd really like to ask... [[Mr. Secretary, please sign me up for the next round.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you for these questions. This, of course, isn't just my conviction, these offices are gonna be open. We have some tools right now. Such a tool is the contract of a given office with the NFZ. If the office doesn't work, that contract just won't work. This is a clear matter, this has already been done. If the POZ office doesn't work, doesn't accept patients, then this contract just won't work. It's a clear situation, there's no turning back here. These offices are gonna work. As far as schools are concerned, yes, I agree with the senator that education is very important here. As early as 1 September, the vaccination incentive system is in place in schools. This will be an educational action aimed at children and their parents. The next step will be to show up at these schools... Well, there are offices, there are nurses, there are ready conditions for vaccination. There's gonna be points where these kids, as well as their parents... And if the child brings his grandfather or grandmother, they can also inoculate in this place. Just like you, I think... I am also a grandfather, so I know that the power of persuasion of a grandson is much greater, and the grandparents are really succumbing to it. I think this channel is to be used. And he'll be used once the kids get back to school. One last question. Wherever I am, whoever I'm seeing, I'm always trying to promote vaccination, convince, translate. I always try to use substantive arguments, not emotional arguments. I think I do it sometimes, although there are people who can't be convincing. But you have to try, you have to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u21	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, who sits remotely. Can the senator hear us? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Yes. And I've already turned on the mike.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u22	Thank you very much. I had 7 questions prepared, but I will shorten this list to the maximum, because, Minister, some questions have already been asked. I will return for a moment to the thread that you highlighted in your statement, i.e. to the strategy of creating covid troops in the event of the fourth wave of pandemic. I would very much ask for a written answer to the question of which hospitals and which branches will be converted and in what order. And I'm not going back to that story. My second question is, do you anticipate a solution? In the form of a regulation, a law, or some novel law that says that people who are vaccinated will be able to visit their loved ones in hospitals? I know it depends on the directors' decision, but there are very big discrepancies here. For this reason, a wave of heyt is poured on practitioners of doctors, because there is freedom here, and the suffering of people who had COVID and not COVID who died alone... This is a very important aspect for the mental health of patients. And my third question is: do you provide for the use of the so-called. Pulse tests and bio-salvage materials? This might be much easier in the sense of identifying SARS-CoV-2 virus and in the context of epidemiology surveillance for those who are not vaccinated. As we know, this fourth wave of pandemic will be, I would say, worse not only from the point of view of the number of infected people, you spoke of as many as 15 thousand people infected daily, but also from the point of view of the work of doctors who, what to say much, lost this so-called. Power to fight, because they got a little divided, they didn't get a covid paycheck, no matter where they worked... We, as the Health Committee, were in favour of rewarding everyone, because at every stage this COVID was traceable. And the next question is, although it's already partly here. We asked for a third dose of vaccination for health care. Well, we don't have much time, because the epidemiologist's information shows that the fourth wave is approaching in milestones, so we can't wait for any recommendations and only after the injury to vaccinate ourselves. We as health professionals want to be prepared, armed with antibodies. As you know, after six months, the amount of antibodies in the blood is decreasing, and it has been six months since the first vaccinations in the healthcare system. Will the doctors have mandatory vaccinations on COVID-19? As we know, these people can fight the pandemic effectively. Well, the analysis of deaths, the infamous number of deaths ahead of us... We need to think about why something didn't work out. Because just because it wasn't so perfect, we already know. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister. We contacted each other during these difficult moments during the third lockdown and the Minister was very helpful in organizing assistance for patients with COVID in my city and Silesia when there were no places for them. So that we worked together over division as doctors, for which I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u23	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Covido units... written response... I understand you're asking the senator about troops all over the country. Or just in your voivodship, Senator? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: It's about strategy. About what troops, where and when.]] Okay, I get it. Okay, we'll send you a written reply. There's gonna be a lot of these troops. The senator was talking about piling up tests. Well, it's a technique. rather complex, as it seems, but certainly helpful when these new cases are very much, because then we sort of reduce the number of tests. I don't think that's necessary for today. We have quite a lot of potential for laboratories, so-called. The day-to-day performance of these labs. I don't think the fourth wave is going to be as big as the previous wave, which is the third wave. I will remind you that 34 thousand patients were hospitalized at the top of the third wave in Polish hospitals. Today we have only 300 of them, so these are incomparable numbers. Yeah, but for example. Recent reports from the United States show that patients are unfortunately the same as they were last year. This Delta variant is definitely contagious and affects, as we read in these reports, virtually exclusively non-vaccine individuals. If we're talking about testing antibodies in people who've been vaccinated... I'm not an expert, but I've read reports, and I know there's a split sentence here. On the one hand, we hear that it is not worth doing this study, that we just need to give this third dose, and on the other hand we hear that there are test results that show that immunity is for several years that we will not need to give the third dose. Well, it's all ahead of us. As far as the obligation to vaccinate health professionals is concerned, this is the recommendation of the Medical Council. If we look at the level of influx in health care, we'll see that it's over ninety-six percent, which is very, very high. So that this is a matter to consider, and we will certainly continue to lean on it many times more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u25	Thank you very much. Please... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: May I ask, Mrs Marshal?]] There you go, Senator. Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u26	I have a very important question about people visiting sick people. Will people who are vaccinated who are certified be allowed to visit patients in hospitals?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u27	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Sorry, I forgot that question. I didn't exactly write it down in doctor's terms. Indeed, health services have already prepared guidelines for social welfare homes. They are described very carefully and there are listed persons who are vaccinated. Sometimes a social worker wants... sometimes it's possible for him to go home for a few days. It's also described. We're working on describing conditions and recommendations for visitors in hospitals because we have signals... That's actually the problem. not only for families who cannot see their loved ones, but also for those who are in hospitals. Family bond, meeting, cheering up in sickness are, I think, very important. Calling is often not enough. We have signals that patients, and family members would like physical contact. I think we'll be giving recommendations soon. That, of course, as the senator said, will depend on the decision of the director of the hospital.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. My first question is this. In the media, there was information that the Medical Council was considering the possibility of introducing restrictions on the movement of public transport, as I understand it, in terms of urban communication, buses and railways. For non-vaccine subjects. Does the Minister confirm that such an option was considered or not? And my second question. Are the meetings of the Medical Council at the premiere detailed in detail, whether it is known who said or how the discussion took place, or whether there are no such protocols, there are no documents from which the public could learn the content of the discussions and directions of action? I'll tell you why I'm asking you this right now. We have long, I would say, judicial series related to reservations about how to introduce restrictions on economic freedom. Perhaps such material could be evidence in court proceedings that will take place. If it's not there, it's not good. This is a clear advice and such information for the public should be prepared regardless of who thinks of different ways and what views they have. Well, it's a public institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u31	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm attending meetings of the Medical Council. These meetings are held remotely, i.e. via Internet communicators. Are they being recorded, or are there protocols? That's a question I'm not gonna answer Mr. Senator right now. I'll answer in writing, see if they're archived, if the sound is recorded. Maybe that's how it's done. Was there a restriction on movement under consideration? Honestly, I don't recall any voices appearing at the Medical Council's meeting about restricting movement, but I can't give a damn. I'm not gonna tell you if it's... [[Would it be possible in writing...]] Good. We'll try... [[I would ask the Minister to address these two points in writing.]] We'll try to do it. [[Because I remember asking in this context that the concerned voters come to me asking if they can't, for example. arrive at work, etc. if uninsulated persons do not have access to public transport.]] You've got to vaccinate yourself, Senator. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u33	You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: No. I've already...]] That's it? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Yes. I think so.]] Senator Beat Małecka-Libera. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u34	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two short questions for you. The first question concerns the mutation of the virus, the Delta variant, which is undoubtedly the biggest challenge at the moment when it comes to tracking spread routes and outbreaks. Here, of course, genotypic sequencing tests are very helpful. The Minister said it was an important element. You raised that question, said we had six labs and three science labs, college labs. But talking to experts makes it clear that these tests, even though they're being done, aren't being monitored. And it was pointed out that a person was missing or a state institution that collects all this data and takes specific decisions on the basis of it. I understand that such a leading centre should be either the chief health inspector or the independent centre, which should be the National Institute of Public Health. The Minister said that there were two teams at the Ministry of Health that dealt with the subject and the other at the main health inspection. Tell me what this final form of monitoring and decision-making looks like then. Who is ultimately the public official who decides to keep track of the spread of the virus and the outbreaks? That's the first question. And second question. Autumn's coming up, and I'd love to. Even though the most important issue at the moment is vaccination against COVID-19, so that the Minister also draws attention to the flu. What does the Medical Council recommend at the moment? What is the possible purchase of vaccines? Will there be a recommendation for influenza vaccination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! As I said at the beginning, on May 10th, the Ministry formed a team for genome testing and mutation of SARS-CoV-2 virus. This team consists of: my humble person, the chief health inspector, representatives of the State Hygiene Plant, the chief health inspector of the Polish Army, also the Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology, if we are talking about uniformed services. All these meetings in which we participate are recorded are written applications which are addressed to the State Hygiene Plant...and there it is being carried out, which is like a coordination point, because there were first tests of the SARS-CoV-2 genome. At the moment, we've focused on six health care labs and three medical schools. In cases of doubt, the test is directed to the PZH plant and this is the coordination centre. The second team I mentioned already operates internally in the main health inspection, but the superior team that issues recommendations and decisions is the team that operates under my direction at the Ministry of Health. Studies that have already been implemented, as I said, since May, show that it is worth doing this, because thanks to the interactive map that we have created, we can really trace every mutation that appears in Poland when it appeared and so on. There's even a short story about where that person came from, where the coronavirus might have come from. This map is also extended to include a tab so that we can even follow the situation, if for example. the person left Poland and e.g. in Germany, it was positive, and that was for example. Delta mutation. We have the possibility of tracking, previewing mutations in our neighbours' countries. This map is therefore very helpful, useful not only for the ongoing management of the epidemic, but also for forecasting and making possible further decisions. The second question was about flu. Of course, there are expert voices that this year may also be a year of flu, which means the sowing of the flu virus may be much larger than it was in the previous season. I'll remind you that the flu incidence in the last season was Almost four times smaller than in previous seasons. Therefore, in addition to vaccination with Coronavirus, we will promote vaccination against influenza, because I think it is very important that especially risk groups, e.g. health care has been given as much as possible. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Marshal, may I ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u37	Of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u38	Minister, I would still ask you to tell me how many tests of genotype sequencing are carried out daily in our laboratories, and what are the indications and recommendations from the WHO. And then there's the flu talking. Was a batch of vaccines purchased, like every year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u39	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u40	WHO recommends that each batch be tested from 5 to 10%. Well, with the current number of positive results in Poland, they're all being studied, so here it's kind of a security. If it is necessary to investigate more, there will be more. The labs can do it. I have information that, for example. The medical university laboratory in Bialystok is able to perform 2.5 thousand sequencing tests a day, so here we have a really large potential. These tests, of course, are not cheap; the cost of carrying out such tests is quite high. At the moment, we've definitely shortened the duration of this study, the genome study. Originally, it was from 5 to 7 days. We wanted it to take much less. And I know that at the moment some labs can do it within two days, which is very fast. The point is for us to definitely enter, uglylyly speaking, with this sanitary protection in terms of possible outbreaks of new mutations. Right now, we're talking about the Delta mutation, but we know that there's not only a Delta mutation, there's a Lambda mutation, a Gamma mutation. That Lambda mutation is quite disturbing. So far we've detected one case in our country. It's a mutation that's not fully tested yet. There are voices that the efficacy of the vaccine in relation to this particular mutation may be somewhat limited. The research is still underway. So monitoring all these mutations is very important. We've implemented this in the spring. I think we're really well prepared in this respect. This system works. I open this page every day, I check the monitor for new fires. This is updated every day, which is why we have insight, we are observing the current epidemic situation when it comes to these mutations. How many vaccines? To be honest, I'm not responsible in the department for buying these vaccines, so if the minister... the senator, the minister, too, will allow me, I'll answer in writing. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Józef Łyczak's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u42	Thank you very much, Marshal. First of all, I would like to refer to this constant criticism that we hear, the criticism of the government for not being able to encourage, kidnap, as was stated here, Poles for vaccination. I would appeal and ask the senators that if anybody in this room has an idea, a very good idea, an excellent idea, which he is about to kidnap, let him come forward with this idea, let him commend himself, because I think that in difficult situations, and we have one, we should act together. As regards the question that I would like to address or redirect to the Minister, it concerns the progress of the work on the introduction of a drug called amantadine to the treatment of COVID. We know that Mr. Bodnar and other doctors have already used it with satisfactory results. I would like to ask if the work on the introduction of this medicine is already completed, are there any adequate supplies of this medicine, is it directed to pharmacies and will it be officially used for treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u43	Thank you very much. I have one sentence... Mr. Senator, if you were watching what's going on in the Seym... All opposition parties have been offering aid to the Ministry for a year, and the Ministry and Government have not responded to this. You're welcome, Senator, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We're open to any offer. If they are constructive and cause the epidemic to be eradicated, we always use these good ideas. If we go back to Amantadine... At the moment, the research is still ongoing and I find it difficult to tell when it will end. I'm sure we need hard scientific evidence that this drug is working. At the moment, Professor Rejdak in Lublin is working on this research. If the results come up, we will definitely share them with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jack Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the third dose. The question has already been raised here. The latest research you also mentioned, mostly producers, says that the research period has been since April last year. We may have had this period since the beginning of application, which is since the beginning of this year. Do we now carry out studies in sufficiently large populations so that they are statistically reliable and give any reason to determine how immunity decreases after vaccination, and would this be an indicator for a possible third dose? Because you said which occupational groups and people with many diseases can use them, but people come to me now, most often at festivals, and they say: those who do not want to vaccinate, do not vaccinate, but I am almost six months after vaccination and I would gladly vaccinate myself with this third dose. One question about ventilators. You said we had more than 500 of them in hospitals, and over 17 of them were bought into the country. If you could tell us how many of them we actually have, and if we can all apply, if we have that possibility in hospitals... And a quick question about the flu vaccine. Last year it was almost impossible to get in pharmacies, because it was probably at 1 million 600. This was due to market needs from previous years. What's it gonna be like this year?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u47	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, indeed the subject of the third dose is a very vital topic at the moment, not only in the media, but also in the scientific community. Unfortunately, in medicine it's not like in math that 2 times 2 is always 4. Research is underway right now. A fairly large study is being carried out in the United States. As you said, it's been over a year since the first doses, and these groups are being studied right now. Sometimes we get completely opposite information. Some studies indicate that this immunity is definitely falling, but there are also studies that show that 2 doses are sufficient for several years after vaccination. So I think we still need to be patient. I think that soon, in a few weeks, we'll have reliable tests and information on whether this third dose really needs to be vaccinated and what groups should take this third dose. I have already said that not only in Germany, but also in the UK, there are plans for these risk groups to receive a third dose of vaccination in autumn. This is certainly preceded by a test for the presence and decrease of antibodies. Any organism, no matter how old, can react differently to the administration of the vaccine. Not every body produces the right amount of antibodies that protects us from infection. So this is the body's individual response to the vaccine. Here, too, the second question arises: will this be the third dose only resembling the same vaccine that we received before, or will it be a modified dose with possible emerging new mutations, new variants of the virus, which is more effective? Yeah, that's what the pharmaceutical companies are working on right now. As of today, it seems that these vaccines, which are used, also in Poland, are perfectly capable of dealing with these mutations, but what will bring us life, is difficult to say. Fortunately, Coronavirus does not mutate as fast as a flu virus, which is probably a weaker virus, but is very easily mutated, therefore the flu vaccine must be modified practically every year. It's made up of three different viruses that somehow protect against another wave of flu infection. But, as I say, here is a slightly different situation, if we're talking about the coronavirus, and here the mutation for today is certainly not so dangerous that we need to modify this third dose somehow. I think there's work going on in the lab. As far as ventilators are concerned, at no stage of the pandemic there was no shortage of a ventilator in Poland, there was no time when the doctor would have to choose whether to connect the patient to a ventilator or not to this therapy. In the peak period we had over 10,000 ventilators at our disposal. So that when it comes to the equipment itself, the situation is really safe, we have completed the material reserves. Well, here, this sensitive factor is always a human element, who's gonna serve these ventilators. So when it comes to securing for the fourth wave period, I think that with the experience of previous stages of the pandemic we have a situation under control, we have a plan, we have designated places, teams, where those patients who require this particular therapy are going to hit. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much, Minister...]] Minister, I'm talking about flu. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Oh, that's the subject.]] As soon as I answer in writing, senator, I'll tell the senator how many of these vaccines we're gonna buy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's question, please. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u50	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the positive opinion that has been forwarded to the Sejm à proviso Senate bill amending the Children's Welfare Act under the age of 3. Let me remind you that in 2020 we adopted such a law as a result of a discussion under the heading "We are anxious because we think." There was a consensus in the Senate that children under the age of 3 who were admitted to crèches or kindergartens would also have to have a parent's statement about mandatory vaccinations. The government sent an opinion to the Sejm in May this year, giving a positive opinion on this project and adding some comments. My first question to the Minister is this: is there any chance that, with some pressure from the Ministry and in the face of some suggestions about the project itself... In short, is there any chance that this project will see the light of day and be signed by the President in the autumn of this year? It is the beginning of a school year, a nursery year, a preschool year, which takes place on 1 September. We know there's more parties then. The second question is related to my great concern, which results from various attacks, physical attacks, as well as threats against Professor Simon, the arson of the health centre, as we discussed here in the Senate. I believe that the government will be effective when it comes to prognosis, if it is coherent, and its activities are consistent, multifaceted, they will be positive activities such as. activity towards our senate project on children. Let me remind you that the police report shows that verbal attacks, threats directed against Professor Simon, were carried out through a server located in Chile. This shows that we are dealing not with amateurs, with some freaks, but with a group that can move professionally, and this in turn shows how dangerous the situation is with health professionals and those who, in short, vaccinate and encourage vaccination. And I have a question from the Minister also about whether, together with other projects and with the senate project, we are still able to build prosperity messages from the real event for autumn this year. That's the end of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u51	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I've always been a big fan of vaccination. As I said today, always as a doctor, as a health care professional, I have been vaccinated. As a member of the defence committee, I have also been vaccinated with many other diseases that are not required in Poland, and somehow I am alive, nothing happened to me. I'll always be a champion of vaccination. Indeed, the Senate project was positive. This is a good initiative, Senator, to mobilise parents and to have children in kindergarten vaccinated. How fast will the work take place? We have no influence over the Sejm. I think that as part of the promotion of vaccination, in this spirit, we should encourage Poles to vaccinate not only against the coronavirus, but also against influenza and other diseases. I think it's very important. You've made a pretty important point, Senator. We're talking anti-vaccine movement. I will remind you that the first such case of a physical attack, you might say, was an attack on Minister Adam Niedzielski, who in his place of residence met with a group of people who in an intrusive way persecuted him in this place. From this began a whole wave of direct attacks of anti-vaccine movements, movements that have been very active recently. Fuel is being added more and more and I am worried that Poles, some of them, of course, think that vaccines are causing us great harm. I personally also meet with a huge wave of heyt on social media, on the Internet. Well, that's okay. That's the kind of profession I've chosen, I'm a doctor, I have to base my knowledge on medical evidence, and that's what I do. Here the evidence is clear: the vaccines are effective, the vaccines are safe, they protect us from the disease. On the one hand, we want to avoid possible sharpenings, possible restrictions, avoid more lockdowns, meet friends, with families, and on the other hand, we don't want to inoculate ourselves because we don't care about the back of our head that someone said something we didn't check. I think that the anti-vaccine action should be very condemned by all of us. I have already told you that through public policy services, this will certainly be very carefully controlled. If such excesses appear, such persons will be responsible for their actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Could you tell me how many vaccines have been purchased by the government so far? If I'm not mistaken, it's $76 million. The second question is the average cost of one vaccine. I tried to find it on the Internet, but there are amounts from 30 PLN to 100 PLN after converted from dollars or euros. That information would be useful. How much money has the government spent on vaccines so far? Somewhere there was a figure of about 2 billion, but when you count it all, it comes out a lot, a lot more. And a pretty important question. How many so far... Let's make it a percentage. How many vaccines have been wasted because the deadlines have passed? Now shopping is pretty big, and vaccination is pretty small. What's the percentage of missed vaccines? I, of course... It's not an accusation because it's related to the number of people who want to get vaccinated. The government buys vaccines, and that's good. But what percentage of these vaccines are expired? And one last question. What about our Polish medicine from Lublin? It's about Biomed's medication, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u55	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! So far, we've purchased 99 million 450,000 vaccines. As far as Novavax is concerned, we haven't bought her vaccines yet, because this company hasn't... We've booked 8.4 million doses, but this company's vaccine isn't allowed to be used yet. If you're asking about the price, I'm afraid I'll answer that it's purchased by the Material Reserve Agency and this is classified information, so I can't give it to the senator. If we're talking about wasted doses, that's exactly 212,000 doses.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u57	Thank you very much... [[But I'll ask, if you don't mind...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u58	How much has the government spent so far is classified information, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u59	This buys the Material Reserve Agency, the old Material Reserve Agency, because now it's a different name. As in the case of ventilators, this information is classified. [[What about the Polish medicine from Lublin?]] To be honest with you, I haven't been following the level of progress of the work at the moment. I'm sure the work is going on right now, but if the senator wants it, I'll answer in writing. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Will you answer in writing? Did I hear that right?]] Yeah, about that medicine from Lublin.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u60	Good. Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the health issue. The health center during those waves of epidemics that ended was one of the pillars of the fight against it. Do you provide for funding, compensation, both in terms of human resources... Is the health resort even considered by you as one of the elements that is needed on the COVID battle map? What happened... I have spoken to the director of the health centre, and I must say that it is appropriate to lean on this service, which has been treated as a fifth wheel for years since the 1990s, and I think the pandemic has shown that it is a very important service to pay attention to. All the more so, Minister, that during the times of Law and Justice you created 40 new institutions, or perhaps it would be worth considering whether the health care centre is not the first 40, as important as the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation or other similar institutions... that it is much more important to us. The second question concerns organisational issues. The Minister here has shown a whole range of accessories, preparations and other elements that are needed to build a strategy against the next wave of epidemics. Minister, such a simple question: will there not be such a situation that 24 hours, longer or less, ambulances will be circling, going from hospital to hospital? This is such a small matter for you, but it was very shocking and very significant in previous periods of pandemic. I think it would be worth answering this question: yes, we are prepared, we have a monitoring system, an analysis system, a rapid notification system and such situations will no longer exist. And the question of protecting people who promote vaccination, or especially those who carry out vaccinations. Minister, I have a suggestion and a request. It's not just that you have an agreement with the police chief and you're going to monitor it. It's not like there's a problem with monitoring. Power is effective when it enforces. And I'd like to ask the Minister... I've watched a lot of TV shows... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. ...showing situations in which the police were very effective, even out of effect. And I would suggest that the police, in the fight against those who are actively fighting vaccinations, take this into account as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u62	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. Indeed, the health service, widely understood, that is, this popular health resort, has been neglected for many years. I'm not going into political detail, we know exactly what we're talking about. Indeed, the pandemic has shown that this is a very important service. So far we have become accustomed to the fact that this is a service that mainly explores food, examines water, various products, and at the moment we see that the role of health care in combating epidemics is very large. We have taken many steps that have strengthened this institution. The number of employees of the State Sanitary Inspection has been increased, i.e. we have contributed to this institution in staff. Salaries have also been raised. The IT infrastructure has also been substantially changed. Many activities were carried out, in colloquially speaking, on foot, and at the moment it is already very improved and is still being improved. Simple things like computers or monitors have also been mentioned. This is very important in this crowd of various activities that sanitary inspectors had to undertake, especially when there were thousands of people in quarantine, when these fires had to be really fast, but also very effectively developed. With regard to infrastructure, since these health buildings are often not very impressive, the national reconstruction programme allocates funds to the infrastructure of sanitary and epidemiological stations. I'm sure they'll be destined for that. I think that sanitary and epidemiological stations are playing a very important role right now, and we appreciate that and we will certainly be strengthening it. Thank you very much... Oh, and another question. I'll answer that. Ambulances to hospitals... Mr. Senator, this is all I've been presenting, which is surveillance, which shows where the ambulance is located, what stage of patient service it is, how long will the process of disinfection of this ambulance run, to which the hospital is to go, where the seats are available, whether this place is reserved for the patient, is working right now, so this system is already solidified. Of course, as always, when you do something, when you put it in, there were some ambiguities, but I'm sure there won't be a case now that the ambulance will be going from hospital to hospital, especially since we put in a system to keep the patient out of it. Even if we suspect the patient is infected with a coronavirus, and he has appendicitis and needs surgery here and now, he's not going to the third level hospital, as he's been so far, but he'll be served in the place he's been to. For this, the hospital will receive additional financial gratification from the NFZ to compensate for the costs it incurs in order to take care of a patient infected in the sanitary regime to which this patient and all staff must be accustomed and which must be preserved. Thank you very much... Oh, and... Oh, and the police. [[Yeah, that's right.]] Yes, sir. Mr. Senator, today was your chief of police's interview, which said that we would be very firm and effective in this case. There will really be no indulgence for those who behave in this way, which is directly attacking those who are vaccinated, people who want to inoculate or attack directly vaccination points. There will really be no indulgence here, and these people will immediately be brought to law enforcement, they will be prosecuted. I think we're gonna have a lot of consequences for that. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u64	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ask you one question?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u65	Thank you very much. Minister, about the health department... In these activities, which the Minister has already mentioned... If there is a budget for 2022, won't you forget that you will remember that health care is an institution that plays an important role in the fight against COVID? That's what I'd ask the Minister to do. Will the Minister remember that? Finally, I would like to say that as a reminder, I would like to take a look at how we talked about this in March 2020, especially with what Minister Pinkas said, and how we are talking about it today. Well, I guess it's a gap when you compare it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u67	I don't know if it's a positive gap. If you can say that the gap is positive. [[It's good for me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u68	Gentlemen of the Senators, Minister, and by the way, Senator, I would remind you that this is not the time for a social exchange, but for questions and answers. I understand this stage is behind us. You're welcome... [[Yes, of course.]] I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary's question. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. The Minister mentioned that you were planning different facilities for vaccinated people, possibly sharpenings for non-vaccinations, when the fourth wave came, depending on their development, etc., etc., that work was being carried out. But my question is: why don't you reveal the effects of this work, i.e. what are you planning to do, what are you going to make it easier for those who have been vaccinated and sharpened for those who are not vaccinated, depending on how the epidemic will develop? Why aren't you revealing the news now? And I ask you this because today is the time for vaccination, today is the time, that if you tell us what's going to happen in the autumn, people will be able to make a decision, they will be able to think: well, then I will get vaccinated, because in October or November it will be like this and yes. And it could really affect... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Senator, first of all, the question time is one minute. Secondly, we have a problem...]] ...a society that we all want. Question... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. We have a technical problem with your connection, no matter how long it takes. I feel like I don't understand your question. And I feel like the Minister has the same thing. And it's not because of any of our intellectual defects, it's because of the technology.]] Maybe I'll keep the video. Maybe now it'll be easier to ask a question. [[Perhaps this is the solution to our common problem, Senator.]] So once again, since it has not been understood: are you planning And if you're not planning on doing it, then why? The disclosure of the effects of the work you have carried out and of which the Minister has informed us about how to tighten up the vaccinations and make it easier for vaccinated people, depending on the development of the epidemic in the autumn? Revealing this today would have meant that some people could have made a decision just to inoculate themselves, knowing what the effect of vaccination would be, and what would possibly happen if they were not vaccinated. There is time to do this, there are still a few weeks or, perhaps, a dozen weeks during which you can make such a decision and immunize yourself. However, announcing this after the fact, i.e. Then, when we have several thousand diseases, we might face such a charge against the state: why didn't you reveal it before? Maybe somebody would have gotten vaccinated. I ask you to answer this question: do you intend to announce earlier what restrictions and what facilitations will be introduced by the government depending on the evolution of the epidemic? Thank you very much. I hope you could hear me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I have repeatedly informed, not only me, but also Minister Niedzielski, after the meetings of the Medical Council... representatives of this council also spoke in the media about what we are discussing, what we are discussing. And indeed the recommendations of the Medical Council And that's what we're talking about openly, is to introduce a vaccination obligation for doctors or for wider health care, also for teachers or officials, i.e. people who have a lot of contact with other people. These are the recommendations that we pass on. At the moment, there's no official decision as to whether or not something like this is going to happen. But I think whoever's watching TV, using the Internet, listening to the radio, should know that information. Will this be introduced? Of course, this will depend on the epidemic situation in our country. Well, these variants are on the table right now. It's hard for us to give a specific date when something like this might happen. I hope that the Poles will be cautious, will inoculate and there will be no fourth wave in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor, Senator Jolanta Hibner. It's remote. You're welcome. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u73	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a basic question. You have talked a lot about the possibility of a fourth wave, about what is the preparation of the government. And I would like to know when the state as a government will give up the Southern Hospital, built by the local government of Warsaw. It was built for the residents of Warsaw, and at the moment this hospital does not actually serve as a hospital, because there are only dozens of people there. President Trzaskowski was asking for it, the Warsaw Council was asking for it, and this hospital is still untapped, unprepared for this fourth wave, and it is still in the hands of the government. When are you going to give the local government their property back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u74	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! The Southern Hospital is currently acting as a temporary hospital not only for Warsaw, but also for Mazowsze. This hospital also started its activity thanks to state resources, was co-financed to complete construction work, and was designed for patients with COVID-19 from the beginning. So we didn't take this hospital from Warsaw or the people of Mazowsze, only this hospital is meant to... That's the fourth wave in mind. There's room for patients who might be able to get there. We can't afford not to have this place ready right now. I know that medical needs are also big in Warsaw, but there are a lot of these hospitals in Warsaw at the moment. And I think right here... Well, there's no need for this hospital to stop acting as a temporary hospital, a hospital for patients with COVID-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u77	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I have three brief questions. First, circummedical. What is your knowledge of the nature of the virus? Is this a natural mutation? Did he get out of the lab? Or was he deliberately released from the lab? The second question concerns anti-vaccine movements. Are these just movements, I'd call it, resulting from some kind of ideology? Or are they, in a sense, coordinated and aimed at far-reaching goals, even if there is a fourth wave of pandemics? And a more medical question. We have the capacity to define it, we have the vaccines, and fewer people want to vaccinate with the first and second doses, but there are mutations that are becoming more and more virulent. And there is also information that, for example. vaccines are more effective if the products of individual suppliers or manufacturers are mixed. Such a question: shouldn't it be possible to run for the willing, of course, and with the primary protection of the first and second vaccinations The third vaccination, given also the approaching fourth wave?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Was the virus naturally created, or was it produced in the laboratory? I have no such knowledge, Senator, and I will not answer that question. Are anti-vaccine movements controlled from the outside? Well, any destabilization of the state, including in the form of an epidemic, could be conducive to factors We're hostile. I have no idea if this is happening in Poland at the moment. But we all know that another, fourth wave of infection growth in Poland, another lockdown which could be the result of this, well, it would not be good for the Polish economy, i.e. it would weaken our country, not only healthyly, but also, I think, economically. If we're talking about this third dose... well, that's what I've been talking about. Right now, I think it's who you're gonna give that dose to and whether or not you're gonna take this dose... Well, there should only be medical indications. And, as I say, at this moment such concrete indications for Polish citizens have not yet been issued by the Medical Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u81	Minister, I have the following question. Because there are statements in public space, let's call it radical sanitaryians, i.e. people who think, in short, that it should be, well, such a division between vaccinated and uninsulated, very radical... In this context also some people who represent the medical environment, e.g. declare to the public that uninsulated persons should be excluded from the health care system, that if they are not vaccinated and are infected with COVID-19, they should be treated at their own expense or be affected. I think that this kind of argument is very dangerous and is turning on, among other things. the so-called. Anti-vaccine movement, because it's, well, a medium. Always extremes just drive each other. What is the position of the Ministry in relation to such statements by those who represent the medical community? I'm not talking about any publicists, other people, just people who should also, so to speak, follow certain standards. My second question concerns the following question. We have August, some people have been vaccinated, let's say, early January, which is already the eighth, ninth month. It'll be a year soon. Some European countries have allowed people who have a covid certificate, but for 210 days since it was obtained, not 360... As in the case of entries and passports, where it is so that some countries cannot enter the last day of validity of the passport, only some period earlier... And now the question is, what's next? Will these people be subjected to another... Because that's the question people often ask me: will these people undergo another vaccination? 'Cause in a minute, some of the people who have been vaccinated are gonna lose this year... Will these passports be extended from the vending machine for a longer period? How does the government imagine that? Because this will be a problem that will concern millions of Poles, it is not an abstract problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u82	You're welcome, Minister. Although I understand that the answer to the question of what's going to happen next is an answer that can overwhelm any earthly politician and maybe you'll find it a little out of your league, I'm curious myself, Minister, what's going to happen next, which is why I'm waiting for you to answer the senator's in-depth questions... [[But, Mr. Marshal, I spoke in the context of covid passports, not the development of pandemics...]] I understand... [[...not the development of a pandemic, because no one can...]] But, sir, Senator, he also asked a question in fear of the sanitaryians, I, frankly, have not yet met with this term, but... I listen to the Minister's answer as a Grounder and not as a Sanitarian, but as a Grounder I would like to know what awaits me in connection with the COVID. Please, Minister, me and the other Grounders are waiting for your information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u83	First question, Mr. Senator. Indeed, there are such voices in the media area that if someone is not vaccinated and gets sick, then let him pay for his treatment. But if we went that way, then whoever smokes cigarettes, who smokes tobacco, would have to pay for his treatment too... So I think it's completely abstract, and we're not considering a situation where someone has to pay for treatment. That's the answer to the first question. The first vaccinations in Poland were carried out at the end of December. This covid certificate for vaccinated persons is valid for exactly one year at the moment. I think in a few weeks, we'll know the results of the study on how it protects us, what immunity we have after taking 2 doses or 1 dose, depending on the company of the vaccine we took, and it will depend on whether this certificate will be extended from the automaton, whether we need to administer a possible booster dose and then it will be extended. There is no specific answer right now, Senator, and I couldn't answer you right now that this certificate will be extended in November, for example. another six months or a year. It's hard for me to say right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u84	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Senator, I've noticed your violent movements with my hands, which I perceive as a willingness to speak in the discussion... that is to say the questions, not for example. as a request for help. I know, you'll have a vote in a minute. [[The question, Mr. Marshal, you've given others this opportunity, and I'd like to ask, because I didn't understand...]] I'm giving you the floor right now, that's the form of creating this opportunity for you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u85	Thank you very much for your kindness, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about that... Because the Minister himself admitted that such statements happen...!Sanitarians, this is a concept that, like the idea of an anti-sampler, appeared in the midst of this pandemic. These 2 concepts are worth taking in, because they will unfortunately be, regrettably, I stress, in the public debate, and for this reason there will also be some tension between these two extreme attitudes. And so now: if such words are spoken by a professor who appears in the media as an expert, i.e. It says that these people should treat themselves at their own expense and bear all the consequences of not inoculating themselves... It's assuming that vaccination is voluntary, because if it were mandatory, it would be a completely different situation. So now tell me if you think the Minister is appropriate to have an official reaction to such statements. In my opinion, such statements are making extreme reactions on the other hand, so it is necessary to avoid such a language and in some way cut off from such statements, if the government's position is that the general insurance system is in force and every citizen has the right to treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u86	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna start to be suspected of treating you differently from the other senators, and it can't be that way. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! I know what you're saying. I think that was a very emotional statement, Mr. Senator. This was the expression of a person who treats patients with COVID-19 on a daily basis, and unfortunately patients die in this ward. That's why I think it was such a look of practice, a doctor, how to encourage additional people to inoculate themselves to avoid such unnecessary situations: hospitalization, unnecessary deaths. Because every death of a man who hasn't been vaccinated and got COVID-19 is unnecessary. Whether we have these cases, as at the moment, 4 whether there were definitely more of them, every human death can be avoided, and for this there is a simple method: vaccination. If you want, I'll say it again: we don't expect uninjected people to have to pay for their treatment if they get COVID-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions, I understand. I inform you that the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Mr Waldemar Kraska, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Jack Włosowicz and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The number of questions that have been asked here in this room shows how important it is and how few people know about the coming fourth wave. Today, in his speech, the Minister put our guard down a little bit. Indeed, in terms of organization, you have shown that you have learned that there is equipment, that there are ventilators, that there is access to oxygen therapy, that there are troops prepared. So in terms of organization, you can say, we feel safe. But do we feel safe? Does society feel safe? I'm afraid not, Minister. Why? Because managing a strategy, especially an epidemic, and therefore a health crisis, are not just beds, equipment, ventilators and medications. It's mostly consciousness. It is the transmission of information, medical knowledge to people, contacting them, cooperation, raising awareness. That's when it might have an effect. And unfortunately, this side, this part, in my opinion, is completely neglected. The result is not only a decrease in the number of vaccinations, and this is a significant decrease in the lack of interest in vaccinations, but above all anti-vaccine movements. I think that this is something that is alarming during the epidemic, that there has been such a situation, that it has happened at all and that this is happening, and that the government does not say strongly Because the appeals, Mr. Minister, you were talking about the appeals, that's not enough. Unfortunately, this time is no longer the time of appeals, this is the time of action. The fourth wave of the epidemic is not just covid disease, it's not just preparation for autumn due to coronavirus and its mutations. You have to remember that the course of the next wave will be different. We know that the virus mutates, we're prepared for it, we follow the fires, and we have more knowledge, but please remember that autumn will also be very hard for people with other diseases. Doctors are already making it clear that people with stage 3 and stage 4 cancer are getting to them. Too late diagnosis caused the incidence of chronic diseases, which require rapid treatment in hospitals, to significantly increase. So we're going to accumulate two things. The first is related to the treatment of COVID and the second is related to the treatment of an increased number of different diseases that will require hospital stays. Another thing I want to say and which I want to emphasise very strongly is that in order to manage the epidemic well, you have to draw conclusions. These conclusions have been partly drawn here, because it cannot be said that there is a missing element of the organisation. But the most important thing is to build a message to people. When we ask the public, people, whether they are afraid of the fourth wave, whether they are calmed or convinced, two extreme elements appear in the answers. The first is that there's actually no more epidemic, that we've dealt with everything. The second is fear due to lack of knowledge, lack of education. And here I have a big charge with the Ministry of Health, a charge about the fact that education addressed to society was brought to billboards and spots. You have addressed these messages to those who are convinced. We've seen the subtitles. We're clinging. Yeah, we're gonna vaccinate. We saw the billboards with the slogan that we were on the last line, and we might have thought that actually everything was behind us. Sociologists say communication with society has failed. You didn't take their advice. They did research, they know how to get to people who can be persuaded. People have the right to doubt, people have the right to ask how the vaccine works, what the consequences of its adoption may be, and all questions should be answered in substance. Unfortunately, that's what's missing and missing. There is no strategy here, nor this short-term, decisive strategy, with emphasis on here and now, nor on this long-term health education. The Ministry of Education should be involved in ensuring that health education is one of the most important elements of action to educate society for young years. The previous wave, the third wave, as you recall, covered the autumn months. At that time, the situation was that Minister Szumowski resigned from his function and, leaving, said: I leave the ministry prepared for the next wave of epidemics, I leave the strategy. How did it end, what were the results of this strategy? Chaos, no ambulances, no free-bed surveillance. The ambulances were driving... Eventually, all of this ended in over-prescription. That's an ugly word. The deaths of people who didn't have to die. There were over 100,000 deaths. Therefore, don't be surprised that we want reliable information in different areas. The most important area, Minister, is now the issue of vaccination, a vaccination programme which is absolutely priority. From the beginning we raise the question that it is managed by politicians, which is an absolute mistake in my feeling. It's been going on so far. There is supposed to be a Medical Council that advises the Prime Minister, but you yourself said here that this Medical Council only gives opinions and advice. In an epidemic situation, there must be a decision centre, a crisis centre, which brings together experts who make decisions on the basis of research and analysis and communicate these decisions to the public. And that's still not there. The message served at conferences, the message only from politicians, does not calm the public. The public wants knowledge, they want information from experts and the medical community. Only then could such communications as are transmitted to the public be able to somehow educate, encourage vaccination, explain the situation. What is happening at the moment shows that such messages, such information, unfortunately, are missing. I want to raise a fundamental question. Minister, if you present a strategy, please answer me this basic question: what is the purpose of this strategy? Do we want to achieve 80% implantation? ? Then we'd have stable immunity. Are we doing everything we can to get the entire population out as soon as possible, or is the purpose of this strategy different? Perhaps realizing that at the moment we are no longer able to bring society into these 85% , we are going in a different direction, namely towards morbidity, endemic maturity. And if that's the case, then we need to have a completely different policy. Because what's the weakest link? The weakest link is still the elderly, those not yet vaccinated. Have you reached these people? Why do we have a problem with giving birth to the elderly? It should be done in the front row. If the vaccination program had been monitored from the beginning, supervised by the medical community, if it had included POZ and family doctors, of which there were several thousand, if we had included at the very beginning of the pharmacy... Ladies and gentlemen, we have 2 million pharmacies a day, and we have 12,000 pharmacies. The Minister claims that 6,000 vaccination points have been established. Great, these are extra points. Let these points arise as much as possible, e.g. Churches or schools. But the base that already existed was not used, nor were the medical resources used, nor were the people who knew how to vaccinate from the very beginning, and who could have done so to a much wider extent. And if this is the way it is, the basic question is: why are seniors still uninitiated? Experts have made it clear that over the age of 50, among these older people, the percentage of deaths is much higher than in the younger group. So this is the weakest, most vulnerable cell in the entire vaccination process. We should be particularly sensitive at this point. We blame you for the fact that this education was not common, that you did not include authorities in this country, that it was not a broad jury that all schools were not included in this, that the Church was not involved. Well, we'd be in a completely different place today... The Minister at the conference on 30 July, so a few days ago, said this: we are starting a promotional campaign for local governments, we are calling for the end of the spread of fake news, we are starting with educational action since September. Are these the opinions that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health should say in July this year? After all, these things should be done from the moment we started to vaccinate, from the first dose. Education, communication, information, telling the truth, building trust are fundamental elements of crisis management. And the epidemic is a health crisis. This is an area of public health, this is not a threat to the individual, this is not a threat to the disease unit, this is a threat to the life and health of the whole society. Another thing I'd like to... [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm almost done. Last sentence. [[... 14 minutes...]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. It's about long-term action. The Minister was just talking about organizational matters here and now, for the moment. What's next? How are hospitals going to continue to function? How can they cope with the crowd of people associated with other diseases? What will be the further perspective? So it's not only about short-term decisions, it's also about those that are going to be for the next months or even years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u90	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem with government information regarding the state of preparation of Poland for the next wave of pandemics is that so far they have largely disappeared from reality. Ensuring that hospitals were well prepared, sufficient protective measures or sufficient doctors and auxiliary staff proved to be nothing more than a propaganda facade. Today, we are talking about the effects of the crisis and the collapse of health protection, which is now the highest sign in the last five decades of supermierity. A shadow on the government's information so far is additionally a case of masks from a ski instructor or useless respirators purchased from an ex-arm dealer. The tangible financial losses that the Treasury has suffered on such transactions are also money that could protect from the worsening crisis such sensitive areas of health protection as oncology, cardiology or psychiatry. The centrally controlled National Vaccination Program was equally defective from the very beginning. This process was improved when partly the organisation of these vaccinations was given to local authorities. All of this is covered with enthusiasticly announced by the Prime Minister victory over the pandemic during the election campaign. Therefore, it should not surprise us at the distrust with which we receive any further information that comes to us from government representatives in the Senate. There is therefore, High Senate, an urgent need to solve a few problems and to ask some very important questions Even if they remain unanswered today, they should absolutely sound in public space. Poland is in the twenty-first place among the 27 countries of the European Union in terms of vaccination rates. That's sad information. We have therefore failed to achieve a safe level of immunity. What is important today is how important the demands put forward at the next meetings of the Senate Health Commission, which are to enable the vaccination of Poles in each POZ and we have 26 thousand POZs across the country. But the government has announced a competition, set difficult conditions, making access to vaccination very difficult in many places. Today we should also ask the question, when the public media will start fulfilling the public mission and stop downloading, charging for the advertising campaign... Free advertising campaign was conducted mainly by TVN and Gazet Wyborcza. I would like to remind you that between December 2020 and March this year, Polish Television received about PLN 2.5 million for such advertising, Polish Radio received over PLN 1.5 million, Polish Television received PLN 200 thousand and the publisher of the Polish Gazeta Each day almost PLN 250 thousand. Next: Television Republika 200 thousand zł... Oh, that's what I've been talking about. The foundation of the "Lux Veritatis" of Tadeusz Rydzyk's father received PLN 500,000. I'm not talking about the other media anymore. Third, I didn't hear it either, and that's causing us a lot of anxiety... It's about the last position of the Episcopate. I have a question: does the government have any idea of reducing the ridiculous position of the Polish Episcopate, which in its communication warns the faithful against receiving vaccines 2 out of 4 manufacturers? This action has certainly led to a sharp decline in the level of vaccinations, especially among seniors. Nor do we know if there is any concrete, transparent and approved plan for the safe return of children to schools. To this day, we do not know what the organization of educational institutions will look like. It's also worth knowing if the government has a plan to stop the flow of medical personnel. Both doctors and paramedics or average medical personnel. This is very important, especially in the face of the announced strike in health care. One thing is clear: specific threats, and we face them, require very concrete and very precise preparations. So far, the government's actions have only been ad hoc and chaotic, so fear of another brutal Let's hope not. Government assurance checks by daily life practice are increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u93	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the situation is so bad that I don't know where to start. Just now Minister Adam Niedzielski appeared on TV and said that for these 164 new diseases today 80% It's a Delta virus. What does that mean? It means that right now we're mostly infected with this virus, which is much higher than the previous virus. It was not possible to generate a sufficient number of populations. We're not going back to why this happened. Health is cross-party, for me it is the health and life of our citizens, and because I take care of children, it is primarily children. Well, it's tragic. Minister, I just got a call from Mr Zofia Czernow and she said that the pediatric ward in Kamienna Góra will have to shut down. And he says, "Save me, find me two pediatricians." Maybe I wouldn't have said it, but it just happened right now that I picked up the phone sitting here. Minister, you spoke nicely... You always talk very nicely, and I know you'd like it to be like this, but it's not. Did... And I'll ask for a written reply. You said we were ready for that next wave. It is me on behalf of Poles and Poles that I would like to ask, first of all, how many doctors do you have in POZ that you know will normally accept when the fourth wave comes. We're only talking about the fourth wave. We've got a situation right now that we're short-staffed everywhere. Secondly, how will the specialist work? I'll ask for specific numbers. Right now, without the fourth wave of pandemics, people are having trouble getting into the P.O.P. doctor or the specialist and standing in line. So what happens if the pandemic develops as it did before? Isn't there really going to be a re-closure of ordinary branches and turning them into covid units? Was it organized in such a way that temporary hospitals will take over full treatment? Because in the third throw it did not work as it should, and very often it was so that the severely ill COVID lay in the internist wards, not in temporary hospitals, in which in turn cases were not so heavy and in which there were still quite a lot of spare seats and spare capacity. I'm not talking about people, I'm talking about places. Is there such a protection created that without moving oncology units, branches... Minister, I know this is supposed to be a green island, but I'll tell you what the green island looked like. A temporary nurse was taken from Cape Hope to the hospital. It's supposed to be nothing, but it's something. And that's probably what happened in other units on a larger scale. Can you say that something like this will never happen again, that it will be so organized that there will be a wolf full and a sheep whole? Because a man's life has only one thing. And you have to protect every life, not just those who get COVID. It's obvious that at the moment, COVID will be infected by those who haven't been vaccinated. We didn't do everything we could to get people vaccinated. I can't understand that someone is afraid of vaccines, doesn't want to get vaccinated or thinks: I'm hero and I'm gonna be okay. Well, then he could inoculate for the others. I wasn't two days ago appealing to people who didn't inoculate themselves to inoculate for transplant patients. Because it will create this protective cocoon around the sick. The questions I have come down to you giving the numbers, saying whether there is actually enough doctors and nurses in all these positions, so that normal healthcare for chronically ill patients is functioning and that care for COVID infected Delta patients is functioning. We hear there's another mutation, Lambda, which will probably be even worse than that Delta. The worst part is, Minister, that... you didn't actually answer the question of what will be done about the protest announced on 9/11. Here is the whole list of postulates: fast increase in expenditures to 8%... The average in Europe for 2018 is 8.8% GDP. Our doctors, our health care... This protest will apply to everyone. Raising wages to European Union level to halt emigration That's the right call, of course. Further: increasing the financing of benefits and improving their availability; increasing the quality of benefits and increasing the availability of diagnostics, in particular imaging diagnostics such as CT scans or magnetic resonance imaging. That's where you wait in the queues. I'm going back to the question of testing the effectiveness of vaccinations. It says in the SmPC that some won't respond as if they were from the public... But there have been such cases, are described in the literature, that the patients lost their lives because of the COVID, and then it turned out, they were people who were double-implanted. It wasn't in Poland. They had congenital immunodeficiency syndrome. They just didn't answer, not at all... and maybe a lot of us who haven't tested each other's antibody levels... I did, but if someone hasn't tested for antibodies, they don't know for sure if they're immune. It can happen that you have low levels of antibodies, and cellular immunity has already written down in its genetic record how to produce antibodies, so if someone meets the pathogen, that's how they'll respond. All these questions really cause great concern. Mr. Minister, whatever we say, we are the leader in mortality, we have the most inhabitants who died of COVID during previous pandemics. I just wish you, the Ministry and all the Poles could get us through another dry leg. And we still have to do... Because the truth is, if Minister Niedzielski said that today, it'll be almost a second too late for this kind of vaccination. At the moment, the repair is too late, because this Delta virus will now move at the speed of the torpedo from one Pole to another, especially to a Pole not vaccinated. And so a small part of the population is vaccinated. I really want you, me and all of us to make this work, make it work like clockwork. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Dear Minister, The fourth wave of Coronavirus pandemic in Poland This term appears more often in expert statements, but you have also warned against it today. We are no longer considering this issue in terms of whether it will come at all, but we are asking how it will go and whether it will be a threat to the efficiency of the healthcare system. Professor Chybick was very specific about this. The Polish state should be prepared for this. If it were well organized, it would also be ready for various different scenarios related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Today, Minister, in his speech, you reminded me of a tragically large number of non-vaccinations. Scientists, doctors, and epidemiologists are keeping us from the fourth wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus. We all know she's a real threat. Experts are alerting that the fourth wave of the Coronavirus pandemic may occur in the fall. In their view, this will mainly apply to people aged sixty-five, the most at risk of infection, those with underlying diseases and patients with obesity, which has proved to be a very important risk factor. I therefore appeal: it is high time that those who have not decided to immunize the vaccine finally did so so that they could feel safe. But let's get back to the substance, which is how the government is prepared for the fourth wave of the COVID epidemic. There's a lot of doubt here, Minister. Whether the health resort is prepared to recommend, where restrictions are required, their use in a selective manner, i.e. exemption from them of fully vaccinated persons and their children of the age at which they may not yet be vaccinated? In my question, there were two reasons. Obviously, I want to promote vaccination. I believe that releasing vaccinated people from restrictions would certainly contribute to an increased interest in the vaccination programme. This is very important, and, as we know, we have a very serious problem lately. But there's also a second bottom in my question. As a practice of economic life, I am seriously concerned about the condition of our companies. In particular, I am concerned about the situation of the services sector, with particular emphasis on We've discussed this many times. Hotels and gastronomy. Leaving the possibility of using hotel services to fully vaccinated people and their children can actually save many, many entrepreneurs in the sector. Another question concerns preparations for the new school year. How do you see the Minister's opening? I'm asking you to answer my question. What is the analysis of the Ministry of Health in this area at the moment, and what recommendations can we expect from you? I know that this question concerns partly the competence of the minister of another department. Please also pay attention to such a thing. We had a dramatic situation. Minister, I'm a distinguished age. My friends, my friends, were dying, but most of them died just because the system, Minister, was inefficient. As a senator, I wasn't doing anything. I was just picking up dramatic phone calls. I'll remember those calls for the rest of my days. I didn't believe, Minister, that those terribly sick people who needed special care were being brought to the hospital garage. Today, Minister, I would like to say that in order for me not to know what the Prime Minister told us, it is not defending itself in comparison with such a number of dead. This is a story... Well, it's not right for the Prime Minister to say that. My proposal, Minister, is, as I said, a man's proposal at a dignified age: I would ask that all parliamentarians' doctors And I ask you, Minister, to be the initiator of this, to sign the letter, because I know that you cannot alone force the Prime Minister and the President, who before the election spoke foolishly about vaccination, to go into the field. Minister, in normal countries, the responsible people, the Prime Minister and the President, drive. And what you said today... I'm not telling them to go all over the country, but where it's tragic. I'm talking about the east wall. They should go and say, dear people, we can't do it if you don't get vaccinated. That's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you for the content of your information, above all for this most important proposal, which is that we will not help each other, our countrymen or Poland, unless we radically increase the rate of vaccination. Meanwhile, unfortunately, it's bad, and the fourth wave is going. It is not that it is possible that it is possible that it is speculating on this subject. She's coming and she's coming. Let us remember, preparing for the fourth wave, what are the consequences for the country and the Polish nation of the first 3 waves. It's easy to tell, and these are tragic numbers. First of all, one hundred and dozens of thousand so-called. over-normative, excessive deaths of people, half of them due to Coronavirus, half of them due to poor health care, lack of access to hospitals, specialists, failure of diagnostics, etc., etc. Secondly, these are real dramas of companies and employees. Let me remind you that last year we had the biggest wave of bankruptcy since the 1990s. Thirdly, it is a huge debt of the state. According to the president of the Supreme Audit Chamber a month ago, the total public debt increased by PLN 290 billion. Of course, there are other factors, above all the economic incompetence of the PiS government, but a lion's share of what we will burden our children and grandchildren with generations. Because this debt in 1 year assumed as normally assumed for 10 years, this is the effect of COVID and pandemic. And finally, the next effect of the current pandemic waves are the dramas of young people who spent most of the previous school year in front of computers or mobiles, learning remotely. As we know, with this science is very weak, and along with this huge social change, the lack of contact between people and their peers also appear on a huge, massive scale mental problems of young people. And this is something that we can, with vaccines, you said that we have or that we have ordered almost 100 million vaccines to protect Poland and Poles. Unfortunately, for the time being, we are doing this ineffectively, because the percentage of vaccinated people, as Senator Matecka rightly said here, puts us in the 20th place in the European Union, which is at the gray end, and barely reaches 50%. And, Minister, I regret that there is no Minister Niedzielski here, who, I think, like you, is doing a good job, but is not among the constitutional ministers of this government. - Like you, sir. And especially among the Members of your formation, clear support. There is no, because we still hear the voices of constitutional ministers, above all the Minister of Education, and Members, e.g. Ms. Anna Maria Sierkowskia, voices either directly denying that vaccination works or saying that we will not reach for effective but harder measures In the name of extortionous freedom. The main freedom of man is the right to life and this should be the clear goal of the whole government, not just the Ministry of Health, whom I personally thank. The lack of firmness in words and actions in the fight against more and more presumptuous proepidemics, who are called anti-vaccines for the unsigned. What's going on in the last few weeks, the attacks on the vaccination points, the attacks, like in my Poznan on Sunday... There was a health picnic during which lactation was to be promoted, but it took place in the same place as vaccination. And a group of a dozen people in moro uniforms, in military uniforms, enter the area of this health picnic where there are mothers with small children, because it's about lactation, and challenge them, threatens them, and the police are limited to the fact that these people are writing. It is the lack of broader condemnation of such acts and the effective fight against such terrorists that you have a problem in your own formation. I repeat, I am speaking to you as a representative of the government, not to you personally, because what you say and do, I value. But the fact that you were able to catch people who hung shirts or banners on the monuments in a few hours, with the inscription "Constitution" that praised the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, our common country, and you cannot catch a man who risked the lives and health of people for 3 days by setting the vaccination point on fire... The whole country should be clear to the proepidemics today: no, you're crazy, we'll be chasing you! You have used this phrase several times, I apologize very much, Minister, and this is the manner of this government, we want: we want more vaccinated. Finally, make more active forms of convincing people to immunize, because that is what Polish patriotism is all about today, if we want to protect each other, our fellow countrymen and our country, so that as many people as possible will be vaccinated, so that it is actually 75 , either, give God, more, not less than 50% Like today. As you ask, what can we do in this and the Senators of the PiS, unfortunately almost completely absent from this room, we tell you: let the President of the Republic, who also has on his conscience a speech that questioned the sense, the sense of vaccination... I remind you that he said I wouldn't get vaccinated because I didn't. And then, not so long ago, he said he didn't know if the end of the third wave was responsible for the vaccines or the weather. So the point is that the President with the Primate or the President of the Polish Episcopal Conference will issue a joint statement saying: yes, you will be vaccinated, so you can help your country. And to go with it, as Senator Komarnicki rightly said, to the east wall, where vaccination is the worst. Especially since the vaccination map is inversely proportional, but identically... This coincides, firstly, with a map of support for President Duda in the elections, and secondly, with a map showing the frequency of going to church, of course, the Catholic Church. And the second idea that, controlled by you, by your government, 100% TVP, called by some TVPiS, tells more often than today that it repeats the words für Deutschland out of context for the nation and its millions of viewers: vaccinate for Poland, vaccinate for Poland, because only then can we avoid further broken human lives, more companies in bankruptcy, more hundreds of billions of debt, only then can we avoid another tragic result of lockdown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, everything has been said in this debate. I want to speak here as a doctor, a doctor who worked the whole pandemic, not on the front line all the time, but also in the clinic, and in the hospital department where there was COVID everywhere, but also in the covid department. And I want to say straight away: the fourth wave of pandemic forces us, Poles, decision makers, i.e. the rulers, us, the medics, to a great national conscience bill. The previous senators said that we have an ungrateful place in terms of numbers or excess deaths, almost 105,000 in 2021. Therefore, as a senator of the Republic of Poland and as a doctor of practice, I ask myself constantly why in Poland we have so many deaths due to COVID and other diseases that have not been treated. So this strategy didn't pass the test. We've had the most of them since World War II. Is education at the basis of vaccination, which is the only form of prevention against COVID-19 Is this teleportation that you pride yourselves on, praise, and closed doors of some POZs, I repeat, some, because some of them worked conscientiously and could be offended by such words, didn't increase the risk of death on COVID-19, which was too late to be recognized, which caused patients to be too late on hospital wards? Does good care of patients, all patients, serve to differentiate the salaries of doctors working in covid and a bit ofvid wards? I know this as a practice, because my office has medical secretaries who haven't been paid an extra salary, and they've been working in covid wards, while someone worked in the E.R., didn't work in the covid ward, didn't even have contact with the patient, and got this supplement. It creates a terrible division among doctors, and it doesn't serve good care of patients. Was it right to transfer specialized equipment to temporary hospitals, while others were created on the basis of these transformed ones and did not have this equipment? And it wasn't like you said that no doctor had to make a choice or save a life because there was no equipment. There's been situations like this, even in my hospital. We were transformed into a unit, we didn't have ventilators, we didn't have CPAPs, and some people died because of it, because it didn't have the right help, because we didn't have the equipment available. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all ahead of us, contrary to what Prime Minister Morawiecki once said. We have a lot of experience, but it's not because the government has educated us because we've learned it ourselves. And you can't learn during a war, during a pandemic. We have to be prepared early. Therefore, there is no time to wait for us to decide how to deal with it. That is why we must draw on this knowledge that we have, and we cannot afford to make even the slightest mistake, because we will once again have the first place in terms of the number of deaths in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many voices have already been cast from this speaker, and I think that in at least two areas we agree as Senators of the governing coalition and as Senators of the opposition. Firstly, we agree that we are dealing with a pandemic that has not occurred in our country for at least 100 years. Because it seems that the magnitude of this phenomenon that affected us last year is comparable to the size of the flu epidemic called Spanish, which was in 1918, a good 100 years ago. And we all say in this room that the scale of this pandemic is unbelievable. And the other thing... This is, of course, a statement of fact, there is nothing to question. And the second thing that makes me very happy is that we all, regardless of our political beliefs, support the Government of Law and Justice on vaccination. Yes, thank you very much for these voices of my venerable predecessors, who emphasized from this place, emphasized in the Polish Senate that vaccination is very important that vaccination against COVID is the only real chance to save not only from another wave, but from the subsequent effects of a pandemic that will undoubtedly occur. I, too, am joining these votes. The efforts of the Polish government to popularize vaccinations, encourage vaccinations, increase our immunity, must go hand in hand with our public action as senators, as public officers, and I encourage that. I do it so far so that where I appear, in public speeches I always try to find such a place to say that it is worth getting vaccinated, you have to get vaccinated and, like my predecessors very nicely said, you have to inoculate for Poland, for the country, so that we can function. We differ, my dears, in the assessment of what happened last year. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have to remember one thing: the fight against the pandemic, that the phenomenon of such a scale was In fact, surgery on a living organism. Dear Member States, POZ, hospital services, health inspection services have never experienced a pandemic situation on such a large scale before. And that's what you have to keep in mind. Secondly, we need to bear in mind the situation in which the Polish health care system was in place in the 1990s. I would like to remind you that Poland, when entering a pandemic period, especially in the field of health care, was not honey and milk in this respect. It was health care, it was a system struggled with tensions, it was a system that, as part of a certain model of decentralization, was very decentralised. In fact, on the occasion of this pandemic, we should ask ourselves what the role of the state should be in the health system and how strong this country should be so that, at times of danger, it can enter with all its ruthlessness into this system, which is defective. Dear country, this is a system in which we have a number of founding entities, after all there are cities in which we have hospital units. 2, 3 entities, 3 local governments, because sometimes there is a city hospital, a voivodship hospital... We have, ladies and gentlemen, a separate payer. We have, Dear Sirs, yet a voivode who acts a little like a notary. It seems that only the actions of our Ministry of Health have effectively strengthened the role of the voivode in this system. So we had, Dear Lords, to deal with the entry into a system that, in fact, could be said to have been highly unprepared for the fight against such an enemy as COVID-19 by its decentralisation. But, ladies and gentlemen, this fight is being fought successfully. Of course, this is an action on a living organism. We're not entirely able to predict how long we're going to be, when there's more mutations... if we're going to be successfully vaccinated against the next mutation. Nevertheless, as it seems, This is what Minister Kraska said, and I thank you very much for it. What the Ministry of Health does, which acts as an efficient team, as well oiled machine, to protect as many lives as possible, ours, Polish... This, Dear State, has largely succeeded in this last year. And it is a huge credit to the Ministry of Health, subordinate services and all health services. And from this point on, both on the hands of the Minister of Health and on the hands of all those who actively joined the fight against COVID, i.e. Doctors, nurses, lower staff, all those who fought on this front line... I want to bow my head down and give them a heartfelt thanks for what they did, because it really was a huge job, an incredible job. I can say that I know her in my own experience, because my wife is also in the first row, in the hospital emergency department, where people who come to the hospital go to different health situations. To conclude this speech, I thank the Minister once again for those words. I thank the Polish government and appeal, adding to the appeal of my previous senators, to encourage vaccination. Let's get a grip on Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u102	Thank you very much. Please take the floor remotely from Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u103	Thank you. [[Disruption during the speech]] ... In this speech only refer to a very narrow but extremely important topic, namely the possibility of controlling people on the one hand of employees, and on the other hand, e.g. patients, customers, consumers, about getting sick or effectively vaccinated against COVID-19. This topic becomes extremely important not only in terms of the fourth wave that threatens us, but also in terms of the future, because we can deal with various possible actions, such as the government has taken so far. lockdown, thus closing the economy or at least limiting the possibilities of social, family, economic, economic, professional citizens and entrepreneurs, or with something that is becoming more common in many countries around the world, including Western Europe... A second ago, I read reports of such initiatives. This is an initiative so that certain spheres of public life can function only with those who will be able to prove themselves vaccinated or ill. So it's kind of like it's going in the direction of... the world isn't going in the direction of introducing a vaccination obligation, but it's kind of an incentive to vaccinate. You are inoculated, you can use the services of a hotel or restaurant. You are vaccinated, or your children are vaccinated, you have no restrictions on the use of educational, medical or educational services, etc., etc., I do not want to prolong this. But there is one problem, at least in Poland. Namely all these entrepreneurs, employers who are organizers of various events, e.g. exhibitions or sports, recreational events, do not have a legal basis to examine whether persons who can participate in a given event are vaccinated or not, which would result in an event exceeding the limits set by the State authorities and the sanitary authorities. Well, a simple example, a restaurant or a hotel. We know that hotel, accommodation or restaurant services could be used by more customers, but the business operator has no legal basis and in fact it is not possible to effectively check the state of the vaccinated or those who have been ill. I, in order to present this problem a little more broadly, submit my written statement to today's minutes. In this written speech, I requested that a written answer be given to the question that I am asking in it. That is why this is my verbal speech so that the marshal would know and that the Minister would know that I am very kindly asking for a written reply to the question asked in my speech. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. You will be added to the list of senators who are awaiting a written reply from the Minister. The Minister agrees, I show that we have no problem here. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. For the second time, I am speaking because I disagree with my previous speaker, with Senator Majer, who said that here in the Senate, we are absolutely in agreement on a few issues: the scale of the epidemic and the government's efforts in implementing the vaccination programme. Well, about the first point, there is no doubt, the scale of the epidemic is really shocking, it is a big challenge. However, the issue of the implementation of the vaccination programme... Well, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the fact that we have vaccines, it is not the success of the government, it is the success of the European Union and in general clinical trials, medicine. That's how we get the vaccines. Thanks to the fact that there was a purchase by the European Union and that our country could also benefit from this purchase, these vaccines in Poland are. And it's very important. It is the responsibility of the government to implement the vaccination programme, the National Vaccination Programme. Whether he's being well implemented or not... Well, right now we have the opportunity to evaluate this implementation. Unfortunately, this assessment is not good, because we have a decrease in the number of volunteers, vaccinations have stopped, there is no great interest at the moment, and anti-vaccine movements have increased. Those who hesitated, who were uncertain, are at the moment all the more hesitant, and the government does not address them in any way and does not strongly encourage them. One more thing, decentralisation and the fact that different founding bodies made it difficult to make decisions during the epidemic. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If there was any problem... Well, you had to manage the epidemic from the very beginning through other laws, you had to say it was an emergency state. Then everything would be clear and clear. It was thanks to local authorities and their involvement that vaccination centres were organized, helping hospitals. It was actually visible. It was evident that this was an involvement at the bottom, from local governments, from hospital directors, medical workers. And that was absolutely important. And since the Minister had some problem with giving orders to hospitals, we had to change the bill. Once the emergency was established, things would be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister very much for being our colleague, senator of many terms, since he has been a very responsible minister. It does so in a substantive way, it is open to cooperation with senators, with the High House, and it does not evade the provision of information and answers to sometimes difficult questions. Now we are discussing an extremely serious topic that has determined our lives over the last year and a half in all its manifestations. Secondly, I would like to say that at the moment the discussion around the pandemic is going along two axes. The first axis is the issue of vaccination, and the second axis is the emerging, unfortunately, stigmatized I would like to say that, on these two points, in my deep conviction, the focus must be on education and debate. What do I mean? Well, I mean, High Izbo, you have to see the mechanisms behind losing the trust of some of society in public administration or even in parts of the medical world. These were conflicting communications that appeared in public space. I will not mention anyone by name here, but I will say that I remember perfectly well the statement of a very important government official a year ago that the pandemic is in reverse and the subject is closed. And then there was what happened on the occasion of the third wave, or de facto lockdown. There have been a lot of deaths, there has been an exclusion of significant areas of our public life and a reduction in the civil liberties that we have in our normal state. What is often raised is a question of the legal basis on which unpopular decisions were made. It's hard for all forms of lockdown to be enthusiastic. They were due to the necessity, because of the situation in which Poland was in, not only Poland, but also the whole Europe, or actually half the world or the whole world. And here regulations had to be taken care of, which would not raise legal doubts. Unfortunately, decisions were often taken under regulations which were not entirely clear to the public, regulations which were amended during the period of validity. And suddenly it turned out that some clubs could be open. Later it turned out that casinos were open and restaurants closed. I don't want to show these paradoxes here anymore... There was an order for Christmas, there were attempts to limit movement on New Year's Eve from 2020 to 2021. I am no longer talking about reducing the business activity that has affected hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, affecting the whole industry, especially tourism, hotel, restaurant and event. This has affected show business, culture and a whole range of sensitive areas, which are a very important part of our community life and a very important identity element. And from this point of view, I think there's been a lack of imagination and thought about the legal paths, and Senator Małecka-Libera mentioned it a little bit. Well, I have this idea that if the authority had kept this, I would say, predictability: from the formal legal side of the organisation of life in a country during a pandemic period, it would undoubtedly have been the confidence of citizens, widely understood, to power much greater. Although equally unpopular decisions would have been made, it would have been obvious that these issues are simply in line with the principles of art. Because you can't, High Isbo, say it was a state of higher necessity... And when there's a possibility, provided for in the Constitution, a state of higher necessity, it's called... These are different types of emergency conditions. And you could have introduced it. And whether it would be right to introduce it or not, this is a separate subject. But such legal instruments exist, and they were not used, but there was a shortcut through regulations. And now we're dealing with a situation that is that there are collective lawsuits, and different proceedings, and that it has grown in history. Another issue that concerns this is the issue of certain radicalisms appearing in public space. On the one hand, today the so-called ones are widely condemned. Anti-Vaccinators for their actions, some indeed extremely brutal and breaking the law, and on the other hand we also have various so-called statements. sanitarians on which Marshal Kaminski moved a bit, but that's how it works in public circulation. The Sanitarians, who in turn claim that there should be segregation, should be such a division: vaccinations, who are like better citizens, I simplify it, have full rights, and the rest, which for various reasons, not always because of beliefs, because, for example, due to health or other reasons, is, however, such a group rejected or excluded. And these radicalisms, please note, they have their media, too. Because there's an identity media that shoots anti-vaccines, and there's a media that drives these radical sanitary people, too. And the average citizen is too small to have access to objective information, there is no possibility of obtaining substantive knowledge and deciding whether to vaccinate or not, based on knowledge about which there is no doubt that it is of interest from some point of view. What do I mean? For example, the question of giving to an expert whether he is somehow related to pharmaceutical companies or not. Because, High Izbo, people come to meetings and tell me they don't trust experts because they don't know that. Now we hear that one of the pharmaceutical companies I'm not going to mention the name of the vaccine because it turns out that many countries want to inject. It was $15.5 per dose, it's $19. So we see that there's just a colossal business in all of this. Public opinion is sensitive to such issues. And this, in my opinion, requires a very rational debate, which on the one hand would show the state of affairs as it is, the state of medical knowledge, but on the other hand, in situations where it is not known, should present information from experts: we do not know this, we are not able to predict this... Because the fact is that the process of allowing these preparations was shortened. In light of the above, in terms of logic... And here I quote my constituents: if the process of registering any medical preparation takes 8 or 10 years, in any case it is a long-term cycle, and suddenly a product is allowed in such a fast cycle, then why... Maybe all products can be allowed to do that? Because it's illogical. If that's okay, that's okay. It is simply public opinion or citizens of such inconsistencies that catch up. And this, of course, is picked up, depending on the direction, either by radicals on the one hand or by radicals on the other. Therefore, I would like to appeal from this place for some rational discussion on this subject and, above all, that civil rights should not be violated in the fight against the pandemic. We had a very interesting discussion here with the current Ombudsman. A fragment of this discussion was devoted to what his relationship is. At that time, as a candidate for an ombudsman, For this type of situation. Finally, I'd like to say one thing. These criticisms, which I made in my speech, also need to be addressed with a footnote, a commentary. Well, High Izbo, we've been a year and a half, in the 20th or the 18th I'm not gonna count anymore. The month of pandemic and, of course, from today's perspective, it is easier to see what was a year or a half ago. On the one hand, I would also like to defend the public administration, because it was a journey into an unknown land, it was not known what the scale would be, it was not known how it would develop, what the effects would be, what the repercussions would be, what it would all mean, what the mortality would really be, what it would look like. It is also in this debate that we need to be clear. But that doesn't change the situation, Mr. Minister, I'm addressing the Minister, whom I very much like, appreciate, and to whom I thank once again for these excellent answers to the question that came here. The Polish State, if it wants to build its authority, must act in accordance with the law, so that the citizen has no doubt about it. This law may be tough, but it is the law and it works equally for everyone. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister! Here, in this debate, there was often an accurate comparison. After all, it falls not only in this debate, but in our public language at all, talking about the war we are having with COVID. It must be made clear that all objective criteria show that this war was lost by the Polish state under the rule of Law and Justice, lost it exactly the same as the Armenians lost the war with Azerbaijan a few months ago. Each objective criterion indicates that you have lost this war. Of course, the argument is true that the Polish government was entering a pandemic situation as a completely new situation, for which it was not fully prepared, because it could not be prepared. About that, it's a full agreement. But let's remember one thing by the way. The rule of law and justice entered the pandemic in the fifth year of its power, in the fifth year of its unfettered power. The government of Law and Justice entered the pandemic after carrying out the infamous reform of Minister Radziwiłł, which he carried out in the Polish health system, as he wanted, where he wanted. Finally, the rule of law and justice went to war with the pandemic at the same time that all other governments of the world went to that war. And here we come to a point where we can rely on objective criteria. And this criterion, which I say in every war, with great bitterness, always has great significance, that is, the criterion of loss in people, puts this government under the hierarchy of history. So many Poles in peace did not die in the territory of the Republic of Poland since 1945. If we compare the number of deaths of Poles under the rule of law and justice in the fight against pandemic and the number of deaths of citizens of other European Union countries under other governments, we will see that you have lost this war. There are certainly many reasons, and certainly not all reasons lie on the side of this authority. There's no doubt about that. But the fact that we have managed far worse than all our neighbours in the European Union and than the overwhelming majority of European countries is the fault of this government, because it was ruled by the government, I repeat, for five years now, when the pandemic began. And finally let's ask: why did you lose this war? Well, not because you don't have professionals, because even if our colleague, senator and deputy minister of this government sits here, he is certainly not only a professional, but also an honest and dedicated man. I'm saying this as his political opponent. And such people, also in the power camp, certainly there is a lot. I know a lot of them. But as soon as we entered the war path with the pandemic, you had a choice... Well, you could have made a substantive decision, not a party decision, which would have helped overcome a lot of problems that we have to talk about today. For party-political reasons alone, it was decided not to bring about a pandemic-related natural disaster. This political decision, based on the fact that on the horizon the elections were delirious, that the presidential elections were to take place within a few months, and on the occasion of the pandemic they wanted to peddle at these elections, caused that Poles, instead of uniting around the government, had to fight with this government during the pandemic for their own civil rights. This government, in the face of pandemics, instead of Poles united, preferred to divide Poles. And this is my charge, which in no way diminishes the efforts of individual people, including this power camp. Both doctors and politicians put their hearts into making sure that Poles dealt with this pandemic as best as possible. And they also failed to deal with it because of this today we need to appeal to each of our brothers and sisters to vaccinate themselves, that the language of public debate in Poland under your rule led to a situation where every conspiracy theory, every organization of collective thinking around some superstitions, meets with a positive response from parts of the public opinion. You have accustomed people that in the public debate you can say anything that can be blamed for the death of the President of the Republic of Poland's political opponents, although they had nothing to do with it, that you can spend years telling nonsense about the Smolensk catastrophe, that you can be a minister of national defence and look for the money of Poles of electromagnetic weapons. Under your rule it was possible to tell, like your president, that there are Poles of a better and worse sort, that immigrants bring disease... So don't be surprised that so many people today are able to believe the nonsense of anti-vaccines. With all due respect to Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, I must say that I do not have my permission to say that there are two sides to this debate that there are some sanitary people and there are some anti-vaccine extremists. No, there's science on this side, there's reason, and there's superstition on the other side. That's what you got to call it. Let's be on the side of science and reason together, after all, we are, because we appeal to Poles for vaccination and let us always have the courage to call every superstition by name. Regardless of what political sympathies we have, we must respect what scientists tell us, we must listen to doctors, even because, unlike most people who are not doctors, they have had very difficult and demanding medical studies. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, since we're talking about this war we're losing, I want to make it very clear that we're losing it too because we're losing it too. If not above all because of That in the face of such a threat as a pandemic... But the country is not the only one facing such threats. But our power could not build unity around this problem, because instead of combining, rather Poles shared. All other problems are just a derivative of that. But you can always improve, you can always take steps in the right direction. I'm sure some of these cases were discussed today by the Minister. But I think that in this House, where we have this minimum majority as your political opponents, we have been setting an example of how we should work together in the fight against the coronavirus from the beginning. It was from us that the first legislative initiatives concerning the fight against the coronavirus, unfortunately, ignored by the Sejm, to us always representatives of the government could come, say, inform the Polish public about how together we are to fight this threat. And we have to fight him together, because no matter how deep the political divisions that we are today are, Poles, they're letting each other in on each other. After all, we are the same with regard to these most important things, such as life and death. And that's why it's worth it for us, in our senses and nationals, and such human unity together with the pandemic, not to fight over it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u110	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! About a month ago, the Left presented the Polish report in a pandemic. I do not want to talk too much about this because today's topic of our debate is the future. But we are also talking about the past, so I will say that in this report were described things that the government did well, things that the government did not quite well, but simply could not know how to behave earlier, because indeed the pandemic surprised everyone, and there was also a group of things that could definitely have been handled differently, and these decisions in retrospect, and when they were made, were judged negative. So that I encourage you to read this, this is the summary of what was. There's a lot of content here that you couldn't predict, you couldn't do anything. The two main sins, however, must be mentioned. The first is the lack of preparation for the second wave, the sleeping holiday, the fact that hospitals were not then prepared for what happened in October, November Well, that's an obvious fact. And the second thing is to loosen the sharpenings that took place in February, those memorable Valentine's Day in Zakopane, when we had a British variant detected when we knew what was happening in other countries, but the government caved under pressure and decided to endure the sharpenings for a few weeks, and then, after a month, we knew what was happening in other countries. And that, unfortunately, could be predicted, and we can't say that we didn't know that the epidemic surprised us. Not at the time, we knew what was going on. I will address Senator Jackowski in this way. Mr. Senator, there's no such symmetry in medicine, we can't practice symmetry, we can say that we think that in a given disease, for example. you have to give an antibiotic, but there are also those who say you don't need to, i.e. We're supposed to level the sugar level, and maybe we're not evening it out. No. This is a science that is defined. In the senator's speech, I sensed such a desire to make a point on the other side as well. It's not in medicine. It's not in medicine. There's one side, and you have to stick to it. And I urge you, however, to present what professionals say, people who spend their entire lives dealing with diseases that simply sacrifice themselves to keep us safe, and you have to trust them. It's for the future... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...about those decisions that will be taken in October, November or maybe in September depending on the number of cases. Now I read on the Internet that PAP stated that, according to Minister Niedzielski, if the diseases are less than a thousand a day, we will not introduce any sharpenings, and if there are more, the sharpenings will be implemented regionally. But it looks like they're going to be introduced for everyone in the region, i.e. for those who have been vaccinated and who haven't been vaccinated. Well, there's a capitulation. If this works out, it's going to be a certain surrender, and that's the total disincentive to vaccination, that's the definition of how to proceed in the autumn. I hope this information doesn't work out, or it's given not entirely, and we'll find out something else, something new. Here, what is missing is what is happening in France, where President Macron simply rules and does not hold himself in power. He doesn't think about whether the decisions in question will be well seen or badly seen in his electorate. He simply said what could happen, he informed the French people that whoever would not be vaccinated would have such difficulties and who would be vaccinated would not have such difficulties. He simply acted honestly, acted well in advance, which allows him to still inoculate, secure, make a decision. I very much regret that this is not the case in Poland, that the government does not want to tighten the course because it is necessary to say that against anti-vaccines or against people who simply do not want to vaccinate themselves. Maybe we shouldn't call them anti-vaccines. It's about people who haven't found out yet. I think those who were going to find out have already found out, and without the moves that are going to be done anyway. The restrictions will enter into force and then there will be great courage of the Minister of Education in closing schools in October. Then it will be easy to be brave, because if there are many diseases, then the decision will have to be made under the influence of the moment, as a result of the situation. But the most important thing about medicine is that you have to prevent it, not cure it. Today we have time to prevent certain situations, instead of making bold decisions about lockdowns, about closing some spheres of the economy. I'm gonna talk you into it while it's still time. Today we're discussing how prepared we are for a pandemic. I know hospitals are better prepared that clinics are better prepared. Everyone gets used to working in a pandemic and health care can certainly handle it. It's gonna get a little worse with patients, 'cause they can reschedule surgeries, and so on. That's one thing. The second question is: why should health care be able to cope when it is possible to lead to a situation where this wave will be much smaller? We have to do it now, but maybe it's too late now. Well, this is the last time you can think about it. That is why I welcome this debate and I wish Mr Niedzielski just to persuade the government to do what is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u112	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden and Moravian-Staneck have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Waldemar Kraska, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to thank you for this discussion. I think this is a very important topic not only for senators, but also for the whole of Poland, for all Poles. Every voice that's been voiced in this room, every attention, every good idea, we'll definitely use it. If we all join ranks, if we all encourage people, encourage Poles to immunize, then we will win this war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u114	Thank you very much. And thank you for giving the Senate the information. We proceed with the second agenda: the Aid and Loan Fund Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 471, and the report of the Commission In print No 471 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, we examined the Aid and Loan Fund Act. You've received an opinion from the senators on the Aid and Loan Fund Act. I'll brief you on how the meeting went down. The legislator has decided to draw up a new law, recognising that the current regulation contained in the Trade Union Act is of a blank nature and allows the entity empowered to issue the regulation to regulate the whole complex of issues on its own, for which the law does not contain direct regulations or guidelines. In addition, it should be pointed out that certain issues relating to citizens' rights and obligations should be regulated at the statutory level. It should be added, in my opinion, that due to the proposed content, which makes the creation and functioning of cash registers independent of the existence of a trade union between the employer and the membership of a trade union member, it is proposed to include provisions governing the operation of these cash registers in a separate legal act of the statutory rank. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, in the vote on amendments, both on substantive amendments and on drafting amendments All these amendments were accepted by the government We voted unanimously in favour. The vote on the adoption of the law in its entirety was also followed by the fact that all members of the committee voted in favour. It should be added that the Sejm passed the bill together with the amendment on 23 July 2021, in the vote of 433 Members was in favour, no one was against and no one abstained. I ask the High House to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jacek Włosowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, could there be more than one employer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u118	In my opinion, there's only one bailout money. I can only report on those issues that were discussed at the committee meeting. Well, I work at a job, too, and I work at a place where there's a loan money, and I don't think so. But we didn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u119	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If the senators would allow... I think this is a non-controversial project, with broad support, at least so far. I therefore see no need to speak. Of course, if there are questions, we are ready to answer them. I'm here with the ministry team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. We have Mr Marek Niebżak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, along with the team. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jacek Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u122	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will repeat this question because there was no discussion about it, as the senator told us, at the committee meeting. Can one employer register more cash?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u123	No. The answer is exactly what the senator said, which means there could be one employer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u124	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u125	Minister, in the article. 15 of the Act in question, an article concerning the statute of the relief-borrowing banks, in paragraph 15 of the Act in question. 1 point 2 shall be replaced by the objectives and tasks of the relief-borrowing banks. And if the objectives are defined in Article. 3, i.e. Here it is said that the purpose of the loan counters is, in short, to lend and possibly to help, in so far as this second wording is concerned in this conjunction of the objectives and tasks, the tasks have not been defined. Of course, the meaning of the largo You can imagine these tasks... Well, one can conclude, for example, that it is the setting of rules, the convening of free assemblies, etc., that these are the tasks. However, expressis verbis has not been defined. As long as the objectives are defined, the tasks are not defined. I'd like to ask if this is some kind of... Would you mind commenting on that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u126	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u127	Thank you very much. I'd say this: we're dealing with a situation... I would say this: here we are dealing with a situation where these key issues are regulated at the statutory level. Among these most important issues are, among others. objectives, as the senator rightly pointed out, in particular in Article. 3 we have these goals defined. However, this is quite a general rule, a certain direction of action of the cash register is indicated. And since we also have an element of self-organization on the part of employees, how they will achieve these goals in concrete realities, in the realities of their workplace, some relationships between themselves. That's how we understand these tasks. They can regulate themselves in the statutes, they can regulate as they think they are most appropriate, of course within the framework that results from the law, i.e. the mandatory provisions. It seems to me that if we rigidly regulate the matter of tasks in the bill, it might as well not be this point, because it would turn out that there is simply no need to regulate it in the statutes, since this results entirely and in a complete way from a law which would, of course, be binding on such a money. So that it seems to me that these goals are actually generally based on the law, and the tasks they can do to each other specifically, adapting it to their conditions, realities, within this framework, let's call it self-government or some kind of money management to adapt to their situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u128	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u129	Minister, I'd like to ask you one more question. It is assumed that the statutes will contain objectives. State in Article 3 You define that these goals are, in short, loans or benefits. Then I can understand. it is in such a way that the statutes will indeed contain objectives, but these objectives will not be more than simply those 2 objectives which are mentioned in the ordinary law. The Statute cannot mention these objectives any more. So I understand that these objectives are referred to in the Act in Article. 15, this will be the 2 objectives of Article. 3. I'm asking you to explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u130	I would answer in this way, Mr. Senator: these tasks and those goals which will be in the statutes must not be contrary to the law, because the law creates a framework beyond which the money cannot go. But I imagine that, even if this is a concept of "as much as the resources are available," these benefits, what benefits, in what situations... There's a margin of freedom here, but it can't be that this rule in the statutes is going to be contrary to the article. 3. No doubt that can't be the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u131	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Mamytov, Durlak, Gromko, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Gorgon-Komor made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 449 and the report of the Commission In print No 449 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Real Estate Management Act and some other laws was addressed by your Marshal to the Committee on Infrastructure and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committees considered this law yesterday and after discussion they ask for this law to be passed without amendments. The Act amends the Real Estate Management Act and changes result from the need to improve the mechanisms for managing the State Treasury's real estate and to ensure the proper management of real estate and to strengthen supervision of the activities undertaken in relation to the property of the State Treasury. In the current legal state, the State Treasury's real estate stock is generally managed by the starosts, and the voivodships supervise this activity. The Act restores the obligation for older men to draw up 3-year plans for the use of a real estate resource; extends the competence of voivodships to collect data on public property, including on the basis of IT tools; allows the old man to take certain measures within the time limits set by the voivodeship in relation to a specific property and allows the old man to transfer property from the property stock of the State Treasury for the purpose set by the voivodeship in the relevant application. These changes are the result of the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which requested the strengthening of the supervision of the management of the State Treasury property. The bill was subject to consultation. There was good, substantive discussion and cooperation, among others. within the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. Let me remind you that this law concerns cooperation between the voivods and the relevant ministries with the counties. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission has issued a positive opinion on the proposed law, although some differences in the approach have been made, and they have no longer decided on the opinion of this law. So that the joint committees request that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do we have a government representative? [[Voice from the room: We just don't have...]] Oh, it's just a moment's break... But I see the Minister is coming in. Then we'll give the Minister a minute to take her place. Maybe I'll read the formula again. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Miss Anna Kornecka, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: Good morning. Thank you. Eventually, if there are any questions, I'll answer them. Thank you very much.]] Of course. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Minister, will it be possible, after this amendment, that the voivode in the framework of supervision At the resistance, I would call it, sometimes purposeful, old-fashioned, who doesn't do some voivode's bidding, some recommendation. He's just gonna do what he says he's gonna do? As far as the Treasury is concerned, of course. Is there a completion of this path? So if some things are necessary to perform on the property of the State Treasury, then the voivode can end it? I think it used to be called a replacement. I don't know what it's like right now. And what are the possible consequences for such an old man if he simply does not carry out the actions that are imposed on him?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u135	Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u136	Thank you very much. Yes, of course. The purpose of the amendment to the Article. The 3th voivodeship bill is just to solve the problem of certain situations that are for some reason. In quotes, I'd say. The conflicting and which may in some way make it impossible for the Starosta to take action to protect the interest of the State Treasury. This provision of the voivodship with an appropriate legal instrument is the implementation of recommendations resulting from the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit, which indicated that there is a lack of such an instrument that would allow the exercise of such effective tasks in the area of the management of the State Treasury's real estate. We are talking here not about specific actions, but more about the execution of this dominion, about the powers of entities carrying out tasks in the field of property management of the State Treasury. So it's more about just realising this supervision of the voivodship. As a rule, it can happen like this. in situations such as the non-calculation of additional annual charges where the perpetual user has failed to meet the dates for the construction of the land, or not to undertake an update of the annual charges for perpetual use; not to take action to cancel the donation where the gifted person fails to meet the purpose of the donation; not to take action to replace the property between the State Treasury and the natural person, a replacement which is beneficial e.g. for the implementation of the public objective investment. So, in principle, we're talking about the field of civil law rather than administrative law. This regulation does not replace the specific provisions contained in the Real Estate Management Act, because it concerns specific situations defined only and exclusively in the voivodeship Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u137	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u138	The answer made me a little nervous, I'll admit it. I'll tell you, very briefly, what the facts are. Well, we are still in the process of celebrating the century of regaining independence by Poland, this is a process extended over time. They contributed to this, among others. Silesian uprisings. In the village called Mount St. Anne, there is also an amphitheatre, but let's leave it and this monument was systematically devastated... subject to destruction, natural destruction. This monument should be renewed at the celebration of the century of the uprising. The monument is in the hands of the Old Town as the property of the State Treasury, and the Old Town has done its work several times. I think it's faked. In fact, they did not complete any action that was intended, and the monument in its shape as it entered into the last five-year-old comes out of that five-year-old. The question is very simple: will these amendments allow the voivodship to carry out certain real-life activities in the mode of replacement? Here these activities are simply to post an invitation to tender and finance the renovation of the monument, which is, as I say, the property of the State Treasury, by the way, at the moment it is probably also a monument. It's just about bringing some real action to an end. This is not a matter of civil law, that is, legal law. Is that possible after the revision of these provisions? If so, how can this be done? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u139	I'm already answering that question. As regards the issues related to the protection of monuments and the care of monuments, we are dealing with a completely different legal act. Our regulation is limited only to tasks which are covered by the Real Estate Management Act. And that's a little bit of an answer to that second question. Why not? Because the scope of this law is different. We have limited ourselves only to changes related to the management of the State Treasury's property referred to in the Real Estate Management Act, because we are competent in this respect. Another minister is simply responsible for the protection of monuments and the care of monuments. Here we would need legislative intervention in this area and the authority of the antiquities protection services to take such interventions in relation to the property of the State Treasury. We are simply limited by the catalogue of the Real Estate Management Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u140	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u141	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... I would ask the Minister to give me a detailed answer about this monument. I think I've made myself clear. I've made myself clear. We know which property it's about. Because here, as I recall, nothing was said about the economy, i.e. about matters related to the care of monuments. It was about property issues. I mean, it was imputed... And I'm just going to say this: local governments, which, well, I'm not ashamed to say. They have to a lesser extent identified themselves with the Polish case and attributed, rightly so, the management of this monument as property of the Treasury of the State of old age, which, for example. Instead of renovating only the monument, it led to a tender for the renovation of the entire village in which the monument is located. Of course, I'm talking about public parts, access roads, etc. As a result, this invitation to tender was not settled within the financial framework set up. And that's how they dragged it out for a couple of years. I would ask for a detailed answer: whether this amendment Well, I think she's right, by the way, will it be effective in that case? Is she, as I said, closing the issue of voivodship supervision and possible replacement? Once again, it's about the monument on Mount St. Anne.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u142	Mr. Senator, I understand you're expecting an answer in writing. [[Answers in writing, in this particular case.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u143	That's it. As this concerns a particular case, we will give a detailed written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u144	Okay, thank you very much. Let me remind you that the senators have one minute to ask a question. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bubbles, Golba, Godyla, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Gorgon-Komor and Gromek made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on State Labour Inspection. The text of the Act is contained in print No 450 and the committee's report In print No 450 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Ewa Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a report on the work of the committee on amending the Law on State Labour Inspection, adopted by the Polish Parliament at its thirty-fourth meeting on 8 July 2021. During the committee meeting on 20 July, the Act was discussed by the chairman of the Workers' Union of the State Labour Inspection Przemysław Róziewicz. The aim of the Act is to grant labour inspectors employed in the State Labour Inspection the right to additional leave. According to art. 52a added to the Act of 13 April 2007 on State Labour Inspection to inspectors carrying out inspection activities will be entitled to an additional leave of 6 working days after 10 years of working as a checkman and after 20 years of working as such 12 working days. This solution is modelled on the provisions of the Law of 23 December 1994 on the Supreme Audit Chamber, which in Article. 79 grants the auditors of the Supreme Audit Chamber the right to additional rest leave to the same extent as the Act in question. In the current state of law, additional leave shall also be granted to other groups of workers, in particular judges, prosecutors, civil servants, social workers employed in a social assistance centre, social services centre or district family care centre, to a person with a significant or moderate disability, as well as to those who are employed by war invalids, combatants and victims of war and post-war repression. The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2022. During the committee's work, the Senate Legislative Bureau did not comment. Deputy Minister Iwona Michalek confirmed that the Ministry had expressed a positive opinion on the bill. As there were no questions and doubts in the discussion, President Filip Libicki put forward a proposal for a law without amendments. Six senators, unanimously, adopted this law without amendment. High Senate, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I request that the bill contained in Senate print no. 450 be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Mr Sławomir Piechot has been authorised to present the position of the applicants. Is the Member present? [[Voice from the room: He is not present.]] Disappeared, so that... [[Voice from the Chamber: There will be no Member.]] All right. Well, then I'm not going to read this formula anymore, because the Member isn't here. Therefore, senators may now report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of the applicants... Again? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please move one more page. The next stage will be questions to the government representative.]] Good. Excuse me. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? We have Iwona Michalek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. I don't see any calls... However, I was a little distracted, because even before that, a government representative may speak on the bill under consideration. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Iwona Michałek: Mr Marshal, Dear Senators, we have the President of the State Labour Inspection with us and would like to take the floor.]] You're welcome, Madam President. I invite you to the speaker of Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko, Chief Labour Inspector.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u147	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I ask you to support the Law on the amendment of the Law on State Labour Inspection adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 8 July 2021. The bill was submitted to the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Sejm by employees of the State Labour Inspection, represented by the Workers' Union of the State Labour Inspection. As already stated in the rapporteur's report, the Act provides for the granting of additional powers to employees of the State Labour Inspections only for employees carrying out control tasks of an additional leave of 6 days after 10 years of work and 12 days after 20 years of work in carrying out control tasks. The justification for granting this additional leave is the stress and heavy psychological burden of inspectors during their inspection activities. Besides, as you know very well, the labour market is changing and the State Labour Inspection is subject to additional tasks every year. Their implementation requires the continuous development of professional knowledge by employees carrying out control activities. The adoption of the law will allow for a greater recovery of workers, at this moment heavily burdened with work, and will affect the efficiency of the tasks performed. The fact that this change will not affect the state budget is important because, as we assume, additional days of leave for inspectors will be compensated for by the increased intensity of work and productivity of inspectors within the working time. It is also stressed in the report that these additional powers which the Workers' Union of the State Labour Inspection requests, as recognised by the Sejm, are similar to those exercised by other entities performing similar tasks, including, inter alia, The Supreme Board of Control. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please welcome the proposed regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u148	Thank you very much. Minister, please remain a moment longer... [[Chief Labour Inspector Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko: Good.]] ...when you spoke because I have to ask the senators... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions, so thank you very much. [[Chief Labour Inspector Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Poor, Blade, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Jazłowiecka made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities, the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Waste. The text of the Act is contained in print No 445 and the report of the committee In print No 445 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on 8 July 2021 on the amendment of the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities, the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Waste. On 9 July 2021, the Senate Marshal referred the law to the said committees. The meeting of the Joint Committees was held on 2 dates on 20 July and 3 August 2021. After considering the bill, the joint committees ask the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. The main objective of the Act is to reduce the costs of municipal municipal waste management systems and improve them, among others. by increasing the maximum fee for non-inhabited properties, introducing provisions allowing municipalities to make a declaration on the exclusion from the municipal waste management system by owners of non-inhabited immovable property, enabling owners of recreational and summer property to account for a fee such as non-inhabited property owners, i.e. from the container, allowing municipalities to cover part of the cost of municipal waste management from their own income, which does not come from fees collected from residents for the management of municipal waste, the possibility for the Minister of Climate Affairs to determine by decision the derogation for individual municipalities for the selective collection of municipal waste, allowing for longer storage of waste, reducing the time for authorised activities from 2 years to 1 year, abolishing the obligation to introduce a visual system for the control of the place of storage or storage of waste for non-hazardous waste operators. These changes, in the view of the projectors, will enable the municipalities to apply solutions that can reduce the cost of receiving and managing municipal waste, among other things. a more flexible implementation by the municipalities of the responsibilities for selective collection of waste. The draft law "Sejm Printing No 1275 " came from the government's submission. 42 amendments were tabled during the second reading at the Thirty-fourth Sejm meeting on 7 July 2021. The Commission has requested 15 amendments. One of the most important amendments of substance was the amendment providing that it was not a municipality, but the owner of the property, in agreement with the municipality, would provide technical possibilities for identifying municipal waste generated in individual premises in a multi-family building, which would then allow the introduction of individual settlement of waste producers. To the rest, the amendments adopted in the first and second reading did not significantly affect the content of the substantive decisions of the Government's submission in print No 1275. The Sejm passed a law at its thirty-fourth meeting on 8 July as proposed by the committees. 382 Members were in favour, 47 against, 14 abstentions. The consultation received and examined 304 comments and proposals for amendments, of which some 70 contributions from several actors were taken into account in the draft submitted to the Sejm. Mr Andrzej Porawski, Director of the Office of the Association of Polish Cities, at the same time the Secretary of the Commission of the Common Government and the Local Government; Mr Adam Abramowicz, spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises; Ms Małgorzata Szymborska from the Supreme Chamber of Control; Mr Michał Sztybel, Deputy President of Bydgoszcz; Mrs Olga Goitowska, Deputy Director of the Municipal Economy Department of the City Office of Gdańsk; Mr Maciej Kiełbus, expert of the Polish Cities Union, Mr Mirosław Reszczyński, chief legislator at the Legislative Office; as well as numerous representatives of local corporations, associations and chambers dealing with the broad topic of waste management. The very intensive discussion focused on the need to introduce amendments to the law adopted by the Sejm, which, according to the applicants, can only contribute to the achievement of the essential objective of this law, i.e. to improve the functioning of the municipal system of municipal waste management by reducing the costs of its operation. In view of the very large number of people willing to submit amendments, often mutually exclusive, the chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Mr Zygmunt Frankiewicz, proposed that at the first meeting of the Joint Committee, on 23 July 2021 only submit amendments and justify them and continue the committee meeting the next day before the Senate plenary meeting so that it would be time for the Senate Legislative Office to draw up amendments. The proposal was accepted and discussed and tabled and supported by amendments. The comments and proposals for amendments concerned, inter alia, Eliminating the arrangements for subsidising municipal waste management systems by means of measures which do not include charges for municipal waste management until the system has been sealed, because today it will be an additional payment for those who are not paying fees, rather than for those who are awaiting actual aid, or for the removal of a maximum charge cap for the choice of the method of charging according to the amount of water used, as this is entirely unfair because the solution adopted in addition to multi-children will unduly favour other households in which there are temporarily or continuously more people generating higher costs of the waste system, e.g. students, tourists, temporary workers, foreigners... This will result in the transfer of costs to other residents. The comments and proposals of the amendments also concerned an increase in the maximum rate of PLN 200 for waste from holiday homes, which in no way corresponds to the real costs of municipal waste management arising in summer municipalities, the refusal to take into account the demands of the local authorities regarding the restoration of the rules enabling overpayment, which may prevent the municipality from having the negative effects of inconsistencies in the case-law of the administrative courts. The next issue is the dates when the owners of the property on which the residents do not reside may make a written declaration to the mayor, mayor or the city president that they will not be able to receive municipal waste organised by the municipality on the basis of a resolution of the municipal council. Next: large differences in the discussion concerned an increase in the maximum rate of waste charge for non-inhabited properties. Here I will remind you that local government environments demanded a much higher fee of PLN 400, instead of the rate raised today to PLN 200. In turn, the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at this point thinks that the rate of 200 PLN is as correct as in his opinion it exceeds by 50 PLN the current market price, which is within 150 PLN. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, shows only that the proposed solutions, which are intended to apply to all municipalities in Poland, cannot be determined on the basis of individual examples, but on the basis of the operation of many local authorities, and that these solutions should be as flexible as possible. This is only the most important part of the comments made and the amendments proposed. Finally, the senators Zdzisław Pupa, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Ewa Matecka, Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Świlski and Ryszard Bober submitted amendments. In addition, Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Jadwiga Rotnicka took over all the amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office A total of 5 amendments were tabled by the chief legislator Mirosław Reszczyński. This concludes the first part of the joint committee meeting, which continued yesterday. During the second part, as announced earlier by the chairman of the Environment Committee of Zdzisław Pupa, only a vote on the various amendments took place. 34 amendments were accepted from the 40 amendments tabled and 35 senators voted in full in favour of the bill, together with the amendments. There were no votes against and no one abstained. I kindly ask, on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, to adopt this law together with the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Jack Ornament from the Ministry of Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u151	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! First of all, I would like to thank the local government and entrepreneurs for their quite fruitful cooperation in the drafting of the proposal which is currently under discussion before the committee, and now will be discussed at the Senate meeting. The bill involves a lot of changes. These changes have been developed primarily on the basis of consultation with the local government, but also on the knowledge we have gained from waste management practitioners. I will not, if the marshal permits, discuss these points in detail, because this matter was exhausted during the joint committee meeting. Here too, I would like to thank the senators for their very good cooperation. This law is very necessary, especially in view of the possibility of optimization, of reducing costs in terms of the functioning of the municipal system. This is about biowaste, composting or the possibility of changing the timetables of the local government. But also the factor that most local governments believe is the biggest burden for municipalities today, i.e. the calorie fraction. The period of storage from one to three years has been extended here, while maintaining appropriate safety standards, which are the result of previous amendments, such as video monitoring, protection of claims, adequate control of fire services and environmental inspections. This law also gives the possibility to postpone the implementation of the provisions which are in Union documents but have never been transposed into national provisions on the derogation from rule 5 of the faction. I would like to say here that these will be exceptional situations, which are not only subject to detailed compliance with the standards, but also to the decision of the Minister of Climate, who will be able to allow or refuse the approval of local authorities to reduce the number of fractions. The idea is not to regulate what is currently in operation and allow more innovative, ambitious actions, perhaps that is the right word. The local authorities who will want to run it in a different formula. This is one of the first major stages of the revision, the changes that have been prepared by the Ministry of Climate Affairs in the current term of office. The next will be the criminal rules, the Environmental Protection Inspections, the Code of Offences. That, of course, will be in the future. I'm open to discussion. I understand I can wait for your senators' questions right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u152	Yeah, stay on the stand, 'cause I'm sure there'll be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It often happens that construction works are carried out, and the resulting earth masses, the excavation work are used in further stages of construction, e.g. I'm gonna use it for a mess. Due to the parameters of the plot, the plot is repeatedly located on the neighboring plot. The Provincial Environmental Inspector in Gdansk treats it as waste and follows high penalties. How's the minister looking at this? Can this problem be solved? The cost of construction is increasing because there are special landfills for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u154	Thank you very much. As a rule... If I may, of course, Mr. Marshal... as a matter of principle... Do you consider the soil as waste that is extracted as a result of the work that has been carried out? This is a deviation from the Waste Act. I'd have to take a detailed look at this issue, to that casus you're talking about right now, the senator. I'll have the environmental inspector look into it tomorrow. Of course, it is not the aim of the Environmental Protection Inspection to punish everyone around, even within the limits of the law. You have to know the proportions. The Environmental Protection Inspection, which I am pleased to oversee, is the priority task of combating environmental crime, hence the actions we have taken. In the case of some minor irregularities which do not have a negative impact on the environment or are not gross infringements of the law, it is appropriate to repeatedly recommend or apply a measure which will not be severe from the point of view of doing business. Because an irregularity can be e.g. the result of a simple mistake. I need to see if it's actually a big scale. If it makes work difficult and creates financial problems for entrepreneurs, it might be appropriate to change here. I need to take a look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u155	Mr. Senator, do you expect a written reply from the Minister? [[Yeah, I'd prefer it in writing. Entrepreneurs have penalties imposed, and so does the City of Kościerzyna. I'd like to ask for an explanation in writing.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: I will examine this matter in detail and refer to it.]] Thank you very much. Senator Alicia Chybick's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u156	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! I would like to ask why medical waste that is considered as contagious is separately stored, exported separately and incinerated so that it poisons the environment. Why aren't autoclave or biological methods used to make such waste normal municipal waste? Then it would be much cheaper to deal with them than at the moment. I'm not saying it's a problem with a slender staff of hospitals. This is a financial problem, and it is problematic in every way. Please tell me that I think that you have been thinking about this for a long time, when will it be changed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u157	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u158	The idea of disposing of waste is, of course, to create such conditions that waste, in this case dangerous, with code 18, means medical waste that represents infectious values and can have a negative impact not only on the environment, but also on viruses and bacteria... Such waste requires proper planning. In this case, the legislator allows only one option, i.e. thermal development. Indeed, there was a discussion on this issue, also in this House, some time ago. Here, Senator Gawłowski remembers why the Senators of the Civic Platform withdrew from the proposal to allow another method. I will repeat what I said at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. If the Ministry receives a clear assurance from the Chief Health Officer and the Ministry of Health that it is possible to allow a method other than a thermal management method requiring a regime, temperature and guaranteeing that this precipitation does not endanger residents in any way It is the right steps or the right steps to discuss possible changes. At the moment, neither the chief health inspector nor the Ministry of Health have presented us with material. We don't have it in any documents. Which would indicate that this is a recommended method. I myself have doubts, because after this committee meeting held in the Senate, I was approached by a quite large group of opponents to allow a method other than thermal management. I must admit that their arguments were very strong and repeated with those arguments which were probably mentioned in 2011. Well, of course, it's important that we talk about it, because just like the senator noticed, And here I fully agree with you. The cost of disposal or waste management for medical facilities is enormous. Currently, the only legal road associated with a small number of installations that meet all standards and which can use thermal waste, in short, burn medical waste, is a cost that is significant for the health system. Hence the activities related to the new installation, which is to deal with hazardous waste other than medical waste by the way. But in connection with allowing this method, of course, if it is safe, as part of the statutory record, there is a question of security. Then it would seem like there would be de facto sterilization here, but the question is, what's next with the waste, would they go to the landfill? Well, they'd be as if they'd been disinfected... That's maybe not a very technical term in this case. In any case, that is why there are doubts about the further procession path. But this matter, I think, should be entirely on the side of the Minister of Health and the Chief Health Officer, and I wouldn't want to go into anyone's competence. As long as we do not have a clear position, I will remain on the watch, so that we do not initiate changes in this area. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u159	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u160	Minister, you are the Minister of Climate Affairs, and you should fight to avoid burning medical waste. You're the one who should be asking for an opinion or an autoclave that is commonly used in hospitals... We autoclave medical equipment infected with various viruses, bacteria, of course multi-use equipment, and he's safe for patients. If it's safe for patients, it's also safe for the environment. And that kind of waste can be transported to a landfill just like you're taking out other waste. Of course, the Ministry of Health should care about this, also for financial reasons and because this process in hospitals will be simpler. But first of all, you should care, you should go to the Ministry of Health with this initiative, because you have to fight for the climate. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Can I, as I understand]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u161	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u162	And that's what happened. I turned to the Ministry of Health, the chief health inspector. I didn't get a clear answer. Moreover, in talks directly with experts, it has been noted that the problem may be that, while in the case of the equipment you are talking about, the road to sterilization or security is easier and it is known that the object or something that is being autoclaved no longer contains bacteria and viruses, in the case of waste the position is not ambiguous. No one wants to decide to sign a letter which will contain a position and will state that we give a 100% guarantee that waste from medical procedures, e.g. syringes or biologically related syringes, e.g. blood, etc., is presented neutrally in terms of the content of bacteria and viruses. And neither the experts nor the doctors nor the chief health inspector present such a position at all times. Well, I understand the arguments of the senator with regard to the opinion of some of the environments, and I would like to point out that this is about some of the environments that claim that thermal waste management is not the best form for climate reasons at all. This is also the trend in the European Union and this has also begun to change with regard to municipal waste. But here we see a difference, because in Poland there are 8 municipal waste incineration plants, i.e. those waste from residents, and in France there are more than 120 of them, in Germany over 90, Sweden has more than 30 of them. This difference suggests why the European Union wants to withdraw from financing such facilities, but this is already for another discussion. Perhaps this is a good discussion for Senator Gawłowski's committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if you really want to reduce waste, you should introduce the extended liability of producers for waste as soon as possible, such a real and reliable one, because prevention is by far the easiest. In my opinion, the waste management system should also be based on a reliable analysis of the packaging market, the cost of recovery, preparation for recycling and processing capacity, including an assessment of the quantity of what is not usable. In a word, when it comes to analysis, you didn't do any. It would be worth answering the question today: when will they arise? To be honest, you've been in charge for six years, and it's time for us to answer such a simple and fundamental question here. And one more thing. Why are you focusing your attention on the management of mixed waste rather than improving the level and quality of waste segregation already at source to help people sort out waste for recycling? Do you think it is worth introducing an obligation for producers to indicate to them what kind of waste should be put into the packaging? What do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u165	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u166	I agree with the extension of producer responsibility. This year the project will also go to the Senate and will be put to the vote, at least I hope. In the near future, and literally in the near future, because in the coming days, the project will be exposed in the form of a public consultation. It was prepared by my team at the Climate Ministry and assumes the solutions you spoke about. Actually, about this analysis, about the fact that we didn't do it, I don't agree. I would add that among other things. elements such as the National Waste Management Plan and other analyses which I have commissioned, and many of them, are related to the analysis of the situation of the waste economy and some of these conclusions following these analyses are also included in the draft law presented to the senators. For example, the change in frequency in mixed waste, biowaste, composting or calorie fraction are these issues, and here the changes are the result of the analyses carried out. So, when I go back to the essence of the answer, I'm going to say that the extended responsibility of the manufacturer is a question that will be revealed this month. Here, too, I would like to appeal: if, of course, there is an opportunity to talk, to consult on this issue, I am open and I ask you to direct to me, through my team or my secretariat, all those stakeholders who are interested in drafting these rules, because no one has a monopoly on knowledge. We propose a certain spine, a scheme that we think is the best, or in my team's assessment is the best, but of course we are open to creating these rules, because they are very important. Unfortunately, this system in Poland is theoretically functioning, but in fact I would not call this extended responsibility of the manufacturer, because participating in the costs of waste management is marginal, and this also causes cost increases or actually creates elements that did not hinder the upward trend of cost-generating sections for local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions, one specific question, about environmental change. The whole bill is about waste, and here's one noise change. What's it related to? Why is she here? In short, it's not the matter. And the second situation that I'm familiar with from the autopsy. ♪ To a certain point ♪ - I live in cooperative resources. - It was possible to dispose of trash sorted into these particular factions, e.g. separately papers, individual plastics, etc., for containers which were unprotected and were on the premises of the cooperative. Then a selective collection of waste was introduced in the sense that either the waste bins were mixed, or the containers for individual protected fractions, but the containers for separate but not protected fractions disappeared. And I can pay. ♪ I can afford it ♪ For non-segregated waste, and at the same time I would like to throw individual fractions of plastic, paper, etc. into individual containers. The question is, who's responsible for this, who can do something like this? Is it a municipality or a cooperative? Who decides that? Where do you want me to write, who do you want me to call to make it possible? The point is that the containers for the individual factions, the unprotected containers... so that those who want to sort things out can do it in the first place.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u169	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u170	Thank you. As for changes in environmental law, it is Article. 115a, concerning noise, is, I would say, the result of the problems that the chief inspector and the provincial environmental inspectors have. This is about a trend that we have been observing for many years. All further environmental obligations were imposed on an environmental inspection. This caused that, for example. noise measurement is an element that even blocks... And there is the possibility of another alternative way of conducting these measurements. We are simply not able to carry out other administrative activities due to the avalanche of noise measurement reports. It's very time-consuming, it's missing in this area... In fact, we would have to completely change the model of operation of the Chief Inspector. That is why we have decided to propose that the Chief Inspector should not deal with this, but that the relevant local government or commercial authorities should deal with it, which are certified accordingly. That's why the chief inspector's proposal. The chief inspector in his duties has written down And that, in my opinion, is the most important thing in the current period, in addition to environmental monitoring. First of all, the reduction of the grey zone, which is related to environmental protection. These are, among other things. activities in cooperation with the National Tax Administration or CBA. As far as waste management is concerned, we also see a lot of tasks here: cross-border shipments of waste, reduction of the grey economy, the fight against illegal economic activities, for example. the pouring out of substances, the fight against activities that the entrepreneur does not have a permit and which adversely affects the environment. Noise measurement was a corking element... The inspection has in no way been able to fulfil its statutory tasks. That is why we have decided that such a proposal will be presented. And second question. Of course, the primary body is the municipality here, and if you live in a housing cooperative's premises, the housing cooperative should provide the residents with access to suitable containers. I didn't really understand... What does unprotected containers mean? Is this about the usual canisters that anyone can put in? [[Yeah, just marked just right.]] This regulation, which has, in fact, been renewed... But we waived the obligation to completely replace the containers, there was a transitional period here. The primary task of the local government, apart from providing such containers for residential property, is to supply containers for sorted waste. Those containers should, according to that Regulation, be appropriately labelled and be widely available to those who live in the property concerned. We've turned our backs on the whole exchange... There was a transition period, as I mentioned. Originally, in accordance with the regulation, it was planned to replace completely... But that would be another cost factor. Thus, in this Regulation, the technical specification, which is legible, is intended to enable residents to select waste. It should be recalled here that the obligation to collect separately is the result of EU directives. Meeting levels in this area is one of the most important tasks we are facing right now. [[Sorry... so it's just a cooperative, not a community. Are you sure?]] Well, that's a question I find hard to answer so directly. As a rule, the municipality should deliver, but if the cooperative sets it wrong or... It has to be done in the way that results, among other things. under cooperative law. Honestly, I'd have to be more familiar with that problem. As a rule, the local government is responsible for this. The question is, in this case... As I understand it, these containers are inappropriate. Yes? [[They just don't exist, that is, you can't throw waste, the right fraction, into a container that's unprotected.]] Well, I don't get it. It means he's... There's no segregation, right? Is that what this is all about? [[Well, there's segregation, but it's all about fees. I don't know if I'm making myself clear.]] No, in order to select it, only that the municipality has a duty to deliver this container. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u171	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in larger and smaller wiances around big cities such temporary settlements were created, so-called settlements. summers or landlords. They have houses built there and they live in them periodically, about 3 months, of course in the summer. And they refuse to sign an agreement with the municipality to export impurities because they say they don't live there all year long, and then when they live, they take their garbage out themselves. Nevertheless, the municipalities insist that these people sign contracts for the whole year of garbage disposal. Does this bill we're talking about bring some sort of solution, a way out of this impasse?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u173	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u174	Thank you. This is indeed a big problem, connected with the amount of real rainfall in the municipality. Well, these are, say, quasi-recreational apartments. Let me put it this way: this bill assumes some solutions, but there were also quite rich amendments here. To be honest, I would have to ask my colleagues to what extent these amendments were finally adopted. If you don't mind, I'll answer your questions in a moment. Those versions have changed a little bit. Our original proposal was for the municipality to decide how to treat these properties. Whether it is an annual fee or a monthly fee, whether it depends on the declaration or not But, frankly, it's changed so many times... I'll give the senator an answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u175	Okay, well, we'll get back to that question. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Yes.]] Senator Wojciech Piecha's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about bio-waste. Biowaste is currently collected selectively into brown containers. I've got a container like this. It's summer, it's warm. Well, these bio-waste collected into containers don't give off very nice smells, and that's a problem. In Western Europe or the United States, these mills are popular under the sink. There, the problem is solved in a different way. You throw this waste in the sink, you have it, and it all goes down the drain to the sewage treatment plant. Are there any studies on this? Is this going to happen in Poland too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u177	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u178	We have not carried out detailed studies in this area, but the scale is indeed small. In fact, the problem with the bio faction is that this segregation is not at the highest level. Often something that seems to fit the bio faction should not be found there. For the time being, we focus more on the subject of education and the implementation of the system, of course, on the subject of further development. In this respect there are projects that Polish giants run. Well, for example. PGNiG deals with biogas plants. And as for bio-waste, this is another possibility. If someone declares that they have a composter, it is possible not to receive biowaste from them, because they are naturally managed. Municipalities, especially rural ones, point out that this factor is quite cost-effective. Today's regulations provide that the collection of bio waste is to be regular, but the inhabitants use it naturally, and in fact there is no such waste. In theory, it should be received. So such a declaration will simply cause that bio-waste will not be received. Of course, the monthly waste collection fee will be lower for this purpose. [[I'd like to ask you about those mills that are...]] I don't have any detailed knowledge of this. I know. I'm watching this market. I'm interested in it. It is not common practice, but it is of course an interesting issue. I'm gonna ask the team to take a look at this. Let's see if there are any analyses and what this market looks like in Poland. I think it's more popular in the Anglo-Saxon countries. In Poland it is not common practice, but of course we will look at it. [[Minister, may I have your answer in writing?]] Of course, yes. [[If you do these tests, I'd be happy to take a look at them. Thank you.]] Of course. We'll see who can answer that. If that's possible, we will, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u179	No further questions, so let's get back to the question... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: One second, okay? I need to consult, check it out.]] You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u180	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry I had to consult, but since we had three proposals... During the agreement, we considered that this compromise would be a solution that somewhat resembles a solution for uninhabited properties. So if the municipality decides to do so, the charge will simply be charged to the container. So not as it is at the moment, that this is a fee once in a while and actually no one controls it, i.e. there is no possibility of what it is when it is taken monthly only it will be a decision about the charge on the container, as in the case of uninhabited properties. We wanted to make a proposal that there would be a monthly burden on real estate where the municipality would say so. Of course, it will be a decision of the local government. In view of the fact that some of these recreational parcels are simply uninhabited all year round rather than as they were originally intended. Therefore, the proposal concerns the number of containers and charges for them. It's just as part of the creation of a system that resembles the one about uninhabited properties. [[Can I, Mr. Marshal...?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u181	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u182	Minister, the matter seems obvious and simple. Namely, let these summer boys pay for the 2 or 3 months that are there. That would be fair and normal. And contrary to what you said, the municipality has exercised its right to impose its decision, and it does not make any concessions. I've had a few people report to my office who have raised this problem. They do not want to pay for the whole year, and the municipality has an interest in paying for the whole year, especially when the company that exports uncleanness and waste is the company of the brother-in-law of the uncle-in-law or the mayor. It has to be decided by law. Seems fair. Someone lives two or three months, let them pay for two or three months. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: That's when he will pay from the container.]] It doesn't matter how he pays. It's about not paying for the whole year. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Yeah, but this is a solution consisting of...]] I mean, not for a whole year, 'cause he's not there and he doesn't make garbage.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u183	Well, then it's not. Because if the municipality accepts the solution that it will be from the container, it will pay for as many containers as it produces when it lives. [[Okay, then.]] When he's living. [[That would be wise. Find...]] Oh, I mean, where... Yeah, but that's... [[They just want to...]] But it's the government that's making the decision. We wouldn't want to impose on her, because there are communes that actually... [[Self-government can't handle it. And that's why I don't rule it out, so...]] If he considers it to be a more legitimate form for economic reasons, he will be able to make such a decision. [[Maybe...]] Then we'd have to withdraw from the current rule that works. [[Thank you. I'm not going to argue here because it's not the form. I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u184	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senators Lamczyk and Piecha. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We'd like to hear about the goat story in the case of this bill. Because the government is returning to some solutions, such as those concerning uninhabited properties, which were in the regulations before the PiS took power. And then, as part of a light waste revolution, not Minister Ornament, but his predecessor, but from the government of PiS, decided to offer Poles a waste swing and under the slogans, it will be cheaper, He has better introduced changes that have contributed to the fact that Poles pay more today have more expensive ones. The PiS government and the parliamentary majority, both in the Sejm and in the Senate, are fully responsible for this. We need to be clear and clear about this. I remember the discussion in my previous term when I said that... in the Seym, not in the Senate, of course. I said that adopting these solutions will result in higher prices for citizens. That's what happened. And I have no satisfaction with the fact that after a few years, you are back to the solutions that you have put in place by the Civic Platform that the previous government introduced. I don't, because it's a waste of time. It's just a shame. It's your responsibility. It is because of you that Poles pay more because of your sloppyness. Take it for granted. This bill also. sometimes I feel that way. It is written by people who actually have a house outside the city, a holiday home. Even if the introduction of this maximum amount from holiday homes proves that they do not fully understand the essence... In fact, the Minister has just expressed in his speech today that there are people who already live there permanently. Indeed, the maximum amount must therefore not be introduced. Fortunately, in the case of those amendments that were proposed by local government officials, this has already been thrown out. I hope that the government will consistently support these actions. Same with the idea that the local government will be able to subsidize the waste management system. Well, I think everyone in this room knows that the mayor or the mayor doesn't have his own money, he only owns the taxpayer's money. So if we want to do so that the system is not to be financed, then the taxpayer will pay anyway, but instead of a self-financing waste management system it will be funding from the taxpayer's money, from the citizens of the local government community, because otherwise it will not be possible to implement it. Finally, the introduction of such provisions, which relate to the upper rate when adopting one of the water-based charging systems, is such a little support... I don't mean to offend anyone in any way, but it's like supporting those who are trying to make money on their own property. It's not a bad thing, of course. But if someone rents their own apartment And this is a common case, a common case A few, dozens of foreigners who work in Poland, the municipality introduces a system for collecting water levy, and the state introduces a top limit for collecting the levy, which means that someone will be protected by now. And that means that it will be costed by the locals. It's really gonna happen. Such solutions are absolutely unacceptable. I hope that such reflection, even if it is late, will appear with you from the government. It's late, for example. I'm counting on it. Just for the record, this bill... Well, maybe it's a good thing it is. I also don't want to be extremely critical of her, because after the amendments made by the Senate at committee level she will be, I think, as far as okay. But so for a good cause we all in Poland are waiting for these solutions which the government has been announcing for many months, which concern not theoretical but actual and practical extended responsibility of the manufacturer, because this is the obligation resulting from the directive. Poland was obliged to implement it by the end of 2020, if memory does not confuse me I didn't write it down. Not only on a formal basis, i.e. to adopt the law, but on a factual basis, i.e. To achieve the goals that are set there. These objectives concern, for example, the reduction of municipal waste from 50%, which is what we should recycle by the end of 2020. The Minister spoke here about the heat treatment of waste. That's actually a serious problem, and that's what we should do on some occasion... Minister, I would be happy to hold a committee meeting on this matter, and I would like to invite you now. These objectives are already set out in the provisions of European law. 65% The reduction must be achieved by 2035. So that those countries you mentioned will have to shut down all those thermal treatment plants, because there will be no faction, there will simply be nothing to burn there. We absolutely shouldn't go in that direction. We should already consider how to build the installations they will process and somehow support these installations. All of this should be included in the provisions implementing the Directive in the section on extended producer responsibility. I heard at the end of last year that the bill will reach Parliament at the latest in January. Thank God, it's August, and this project is gone. I don't know when he's gonna be Mr. Minister probably knows that. But I'm not even asking because I'm gonna hear another spell. However, I hope that it will be and that it will be good enough that we will all support it. That is what I am asking, because I am aware that this is one of the major roads to significantly reduce the costs of the waste management system. The packaging manufacturer... And here's some interesting information for you. Until the end of 2023. I don't remember exactly, but I think by the end of 2023 100%. packaging, packaging waste should be given a recycling process. This is not possible in Poland, i.e. No one's taking care of it. The government has not built a system either financial or legal or organisational to achieve these objectives And it's August 2021. It's not gonna work like that from a finger and say it's gonna work. I'm consciously pointing you to omissions. It's not just the so-called. goats... Something's broken, we fix it... Today no one wants to talk about how it's repaired. After a few years, because it just doesn't work. Theorists who were geniuses a while back... Well, they're not in the ministry anymore. They are usually Members, not Senators, but Members. There are others in the ministry and they do not return to those solutions which, before the PiS took power, were introduced into the legal system. Medical waste is dangerous. I'll help you, Minister. I've sent you an expert report this week prepared by the Senate Bureau of Analysis. From these studies, it is quite clear that hazardous medical waste in EU countries is subject to autoclaving, except for the organic part, because it really needs to be burned. This significantly reduces the operating costs of the system. I'll tell you... The state on the other side knows this, so I will tell you that it is estimated that the market for hazardous medical waste is about PLN 1 billion per year. If only the possibility of autoclaving could be allowed in Poland, some 900 million PLN would remain for the treatment of people. Why is so stubbornly supported by a group of dozens, some actually entrepreneurs involved in thermal treatment of medical waste? Minister, you know, and I do. The PiS Senators in their entirety, the single Senator from the Platform... the single Senators from the Platform were against these solutions some years ago. Let's save that money from the pot. Minister, I guarantee full support, at least my own, for those actions that allow us to spend more money on the treatment of people, rather than on a few companies that break huge money, have a hoss in the area of hazardous medical waste. The ROP Act, on extended producer responsibility. Minister, please do so, because this is a real way for Poles to pay less for waste management. There's really no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! In fact, to a large extent, Senator Gawłowski has already said what I wanted to say, but I say this on behalf of the Association of Polish Cities, the Association of Spa Municipalities and tens of cities. This applies to so-called. apartments, apartments mostly for a year of empty houses, empty apartments that are not reported to the system and are deducted from them very small amounts. And for many years we, among others. Tourist and spa communities, including Kołobrzeg, are expected from the Ministry and from the government to give them a chance not to add local authorities to such apartments. I would therefore like to add amendments to these amendments, which were already voted on at the committee meeting. Put them on Mr. Marshal's table. Which could theoretically be discussed at yesterday's committee meeting, but for temporary reasons it was not done. I'm reporting them today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Chybicka, Szwed, Świlski, Błecherz, Golba, Godyla, Gromko, Gawóda, Matecka and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes... and, yet, Senator Gorgon-Komor. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Gromek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Minister, I don't know if you know the content of these conclusions... [[Voice from the room: No, he doesn't.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: At the committee meeting...]] Mr. Senator, were these proposals even discussed at the committee meeting, or... [[No, no, they weren't.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] No? Well, then the Minister is unable to respond to conclusions he doesn't know. [[He needs to see them first.]] Good. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment, the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 447 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 447 A and 447 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs a report by this committee on the Act amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and certain other laws. Purpose and subject of the bill. The Law on the revision of the Law on the monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and of certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 8 July 2021 aims to supplement and partially implement accordingly the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009, the Council Directive of 20 April 2015, the Directive of the European Parliament of 22 October 2014; the inclusion of hydrogen intended to drive the vehicle with a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of fuels; the modification of the rules and modalities of the implementation of the National Reduction Objective. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has taken over the legislative amendments proposed by the Legislative Office in the number 11. And we will be asking for the approval of these amendments, because they are very orderful. They will sort out as if the matter of this law. The Act provides for the modification of the definition of "putting on the market', "National Reduction Purpose' and "the entity pursuing the National Reduction Purpose', the establishment of the definition of "hydrogen' and "hydrogen sample', the standardization of the obligations of both the manufacturer, the transporter, the storage, the marketing or the collection of hydrogen at the plant station, as well as the operator of the hydrogen wholesaler, the modification of the obligations of the entity carrying out the National Reduction Objective, including the introduction of the possibility of implementing the National Reduction Objective in 20212024 by paying a replacement fee, the extension of administrative liability to entities carrying out the National Reduction Objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the Act amending the Act on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and certain other laws. After considering the law at the committee meeting on 20 July, the committees request the adoption of the law without amendment. 14 senators voted in favour of this option, 11 against. Amendments to the minority committee have been tabled. The draft law amending the Law on the monitoring and control of fuel quality and certain other laws was prepared in view of the need to amend the provisions of the Act of 25 August 2006 on a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of fuels in the scope of the National Reduction Objective, to include a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of hydrogen fuels used to drive vehicles and the definition of light fuel oil and heavy fuel oil. By amending the existing provisions of the Act and by adding new provisions to it, the implementation of European Union law is complemented by the following Directives: the European Parliament Directive of 23 April 2009 and the Council of the European Union Directive of 20 April 2015. Most of the cases were discussed here by my previous speaker, Senator Lamczyk. I'm asking you to accept... the committees are asking for this bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: Stanisław Lamczyk.]] Senator Lamczyk to the senator... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...Froths. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u193	I'm actually here to see the Minister, but maybe Senator Piecha will answer. In this law is spoken It's just about car water. We know that if the wind farms are on the Baltic, they'll probably produce green hydrogen, too. Wouldn't it be worth mentioning this aspect here right away?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u194	It wasn't discussed in the committee, but in my opinion... Well, Poland is a producer of hydrogen. We're producing about 1 million tons of hydrogen right now. This is hydrogen blue and gray, blue with natural gas, and gray with coke gas. Well, we're on the subject, but for now, we're not making green hydrogen yet... Western Europe is preparing for this. Let us hope that these projects will be completed positively, these trials will be completed positively and such industrial production will start using renewable energy sources. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u195	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: There's no more for you...]] Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the minorities in general of the Joint Committees, I request that the minority take over from the Legislative Office and its amendments clarifying and ordering this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u197	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to the senator of the minority application. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Piotr Grandpa's meeting. And I have a question: does the Minister wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u198	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to introduce you, very briefly, to the most important thesis of the law, and at the same time to draw attention to the fact that this law is of a very urgent nature. But before I get to that, I would like to briefly show you why it is so important from the point of view of entrepreneurs that it is adopted in a rather rapid manner. Such a rapid entry into force of the provisions of the proposed law... They should, as I said, enter into force quickly, as soon as possible. This is justified by the following considerations. The introduction of this law will allow a smooth transition to a new certification system, i.e. meeting the requirements of the RED II Directive, while maintaining old certification systems, i.e. meeting the requirements of the RED I Directive. This change is important for both domestic fuel safety and for the implementation of EU climate targets commitments. The Act will introduce the possibility of implementing the National Reduction Objective using a substitute fee in 2021/2024, as the Senators of the rapporteur have already said. The change will result in a significant amount of money being left in the country, instead of being transferred outside the borders of the country and even the European Union. The revenue from the substitute fee will be the income of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and will be used to develop the use of alternative fuels in transport, which in turn will result in a reduction in the emissions of the transport sector. The Act will also simplify the reporting of energy companies on fuels. Following the entry into force of the amendment provided for in the Act, the existing simplification of the obligation to report on the activities carried out to only one body, namely the President of the URE, will be maintained instead of 3 others. The Act will introduce a legal framework for the quality of hydrogen used for transport purposes. The establishment of rules governing the quality of hydrogen will facilitate investment decisions by fuel operators in the production and distribution of hydrogen for transport purposes. Thank you very much, both committees, for an in-depth analysis of the law at this stage at which we are. However, as I said at the outset, please take into account the fact that the proposals made by the Senate Legislative Office do not concern substantive issues. These are strictly editorial remarks. They only affect the form, not the content of the proposed regulation. The Senate's adoption of a law without amendment will allow it to immediately transfer to the President's signature. Finally, I would like to point out that, taking into account the arguments put forward by me, the government clearly supports the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to adopt this law without amendments. I'm asking you very kindly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, we would like to address the issue of the obligation to control the quality of hydrogen. I understand that this will be necessary in the future, we are all talking about it. There is merely a statement here that there may be overregulation of the system due to the fact that this fuel is still not available today. I understand the reason, but I'm asking you what was the basis for typing solutions that are actually gonna be hard to find out. Second question. You write, Minister, that there will be a redirection of revenue from the basic fee and fines imposed under the National Reduction Objective from the state budget to the national environmental fund. My question is: will it be targeted measures, properly spent, or will it be a constant revenue for the national environmental fund for statutory purposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u201	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u202	Dear Senator, As far as hydrogen is concerned, the hydrogen law defines hydrogen as transport fuel. That's one thing. Secondly, companies demanded regulation on hydrogen. We had to define a way of certification, which is to determine the locations where this hydrogen will be tested and where its quality will be checked. It is like meeting the expectations of industry and entrepreneurs. That's one thing. As far as the substitute fee is concerned, it is a charge resulting from the fact that companies which have not achieved the National Reduction Objective purchase so-called very often. U.R. It is about measures that come from various investment projects in the field of oil and gas. They then allocate these funds to finance the development of this industry, most often abroad. Our proposal is that the reduction target should not be achieved through the purchase of the UERs that I mentioned, only that the funds through the replacement fee should be placed in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which will automatically result in revenue for the Treasury. I say this in quotes, because it will not be the revenue of the Treasury, but these funds will remain in our country and serve the purpose of transport in our country. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u203	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u204	As I understand it, Minister, it's going to be a steady income. Yes? That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u205	This will be revenue for those who fail to achieve the National Reduction Objective in the period 2021 to 2024. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u206	Thank you very much. Any of you... Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions for the Minister. Many municipal, local and other boiler rooms. began to produce electricity when burning. Is this element included in these regulations? That's the first question. Second question. When we talked about the power market on another occasion, you or your colleague said that the individual customers will pay 70 gr a month to the bill. I'd like to say I've seen a bill like this. I'm talking about the scale of the month. From which it appears that at the moment it is 10 zlotys. So these are very high charges.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u208	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u209	The bill doesn't concern the issues raised in these two questions, I'll say it immediately, Senator. As regards the reference If I may refer here to the Power Market Act and to the scope of this question This is generally the case: for the recipient, we are talking about the individual recipient, this growth is not planned to be higher than 80 gr, but for small and medium-sized enterprises it is at the level of 10 PLN. And that's the explanation. I don't think that's a lie. That's our calculations. But as I said, the bill doesn't apply to this issue, we can talk about it outside the room. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u210	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been a little provoked by the Minister by this part of his statement about asking him to adopt the bill without amendments because the government is in a hurry. I want to uphold the law of the High House, the Polish Senate, but that every act of law should be debated fairly and that the document coming out of it should be the best possible. These amendments, which were tabled by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, were prepared by the Senate Legislative Office. These are corrections that are orderly and relevant from the point of view of the whole issue. But even if these were purely editorial and technical amendments, the High Izbo directive, which is being implemented, has been in force, Minister, since 2018... Yes? Since what year? Since 2019? Well, I don't remember anymore. A lot of... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Since the middle of this year.]] It does, but I'm asking when she was admitted. It was adopted in 2018. Since the middle of this year, we have been required to introduce a directive, but it was adopted in 2018. The government had enough time to implement the regulations, i.e. to prepare the bill, and then to direct it to the Polish Sejm and Senate. The government has done so at the last possible moment, and today it is exerting pressure on you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that we should not accept amendments. Minister, I kindly ask you not to use this argument again in the future, because even if we were to take a simple assumption that we all care about time and if we accepted these amendments I hope this will happen. This is next week's session of the Sejm. The Sejm will accept or reject the amendments and forward the bill to the President for signature. In fact, the discussion boils down to whether or not the project will be adopted 7 days later. But, Minister, it is your responsibility that this project was sent to Parliament so late. If he had hit six months earlier, we wouldn't have had that problem. Therefore, do not hold the High House, the Senate responsible for... Yeah, that's where I'm gonna put the dot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u212	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Władysław Komarnicki presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I therefore ask the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on special arrangements for the special purpose of forest land. The text of the Act is contained in print No 473, and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 473 A and 473 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs a report on the work on the Law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land. The Commission was working on this bill yesterday. The law was adopted by the Sejm at its thirty-fifth meeting on 23 July and subsequently addressed to the proceedings of the High Chamber. As the applicants say in this case the purpose of the Act is to introduce the possibility of converting the property of the State Treasury remaining on the Management Board of the State Forests State Forests located in Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola, and adjacent areas to forests, land and other properties where it is possible to conduct forest management, where justified by the needs and policy objectives of supporting the development and implementation of energy, electromobility or transport projects, to promote new technologies and to improve air quality or justified by the needs and strategic objectives of production for state defence, high electronic technologies and processors, electromobility, innovative hydrogen technology, aviation, automotive and plastics industries. For a good cause, this is a classic example of a specialty. As a general rule, the law provides for the possibility of excluding from forest production, which is the result of an annex to that law to the land located in those 2 cities. This applies to 234 ha in the case of Jaworzna and more than 900 ha in the case of Steel Wola. The legislator wants to allocate these areas to typically commercial activities. This concerns the possibility of setting up factories there in these forest areas. And so much for a brief description of the bill itself. I am now obliged to submit to you a report on the discussion that took place at the meeting of this particular committee. It seems to me that this discussion will best characterize one sentence that I will allow myself to read. Professor Zbigniew Karachin did not attend the committee meeting, but his words accurately reflect what was said there by various senators. I will quote this sentence: "Reading such projects, I wonder why the current government does not like Poland and its native nature so much. With thousands of hectares of degraded industrial sites on which new factories can be built, the government intends to cut hundreds of hectares of forest for its investments. Well, that was the atmosphere there. That was the atmosphere during the discussion. During the committee meeting, such voices were cast. Indeed, we have not found the answer to why forest land is intended for strict activity. industrial, since there are thousands of hectares in the country covered by the special economic zones on which such plants can be built, and probably tens of thousands of hectares of post-industrial sites, which can also be used to locate various industrial activities, even those mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of that law. This bill was shattered by the Senate's Legislative Office, but to be clear, also by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The not very long and uncomplicated law was really pointed out by lawyers in such a way that it was pointed out that it was unconstitutional, incompatible with European Union law, an act that even harmed European law and national law. Therefore, there is nothing left for the committee to submit a motion to reject this law in its entirety. I recommend to the High House that such a proposal be adopted. Indeed, when you read the bill, you have a huge impression that it is spoiling the law that there is a risk of privatization of forests, damage to the environment, huge losses to the state budget. Because there are various responsibilities imposed, even on the Forests, and yet these areas transferred today, as the Minister said, to a company of the Treasury... This company can sell these areas tomorrow after all, and this is no exception. If the company itself can be privatised. And let me remind you that forests are naturally used to improve air quality and cut them out to implement air quality technologies... Well, that's an obvious contradiction. So when someone says they want to build there, for example. the plants to be produced And that's the justification we've heard. The first Polish electric car... Well, I have to say, there's no worse reason than that we're going to cut out tens of thousands or thousands of hectares of forests just to make electric cars at the end. As I know the life and declarations that have flown for the last six years from the mouths of the important politicians of the governing camp, that's... I could say this: the keel, the measure, and a few other hard examples that show that there is nothing more to it than the word. And Izera's company, Mr. Senator, is an excellent example. Because this company, which is supposed to produce electric cars and which was founded in 2016, so for a good cause by 2021 there are not very great achievements, because it really didn't prepare much outside of... [[Voice from the O.R.: None.]] The senator tells me none. I don't want to say it that clearly, Senator. But in fact, apart from the remuneration of the company's board of directors, I haven't heard anything else... and, in addition to the presentation of some model we don't know if he drives, but he looks, just looks, and only looks. Today this company is for sale. Today we read in various publications that the government wants to buy the company from those who set it up, and these were four energy entities, four energy companies. And the company... Attention, I read not further than yesterday's statement by the Minister of Kurtyka, who said that the company would start construction of a factory producing Jizera in the 3rd quarter of 2021. Well, the first cars were supposed to come off the tapes first at the end of 2023, and now I heard that at the beginning of 2024. That's what the ministers say, so I'm just quoting the ministers, it's not my words, I didn't invent it, ladies and gentlemen. And I think it's gonna be like with this million electric cars, and everybody's seen them, and they just don't know where they're going. They're definitely not in Poland, so maybe they're somewhere else in the world. And to put an end to this, I will say that this year the government has foreseen for the woods to be forested, here I have a letter signed by Minister Siarka of 17 May 2021. 261 ha and 81 acres of new land. More than a thousand want to cut and wood .261. Well, congratulations. This is an obvious ruin and damage to Polish nature, the Polish environment, and it is certainly not in the interest of the development of the economy. I repeat: there are hundreds of hectares, thousands of hectares covered by the economic zone in Poland, armed, ready to build workplaces there, in different places, in Silesia, in Zagłębie, in different cities... I really don't want to point out to the government where he has something to build, but that kind of possibility exists. Therefore, it is not necessary to cut and devastate the Polish forest, to start de facto the process of privatization of forests, de facto privatization, because it is really... However, I must say this, remind you of the fact of the past, not too far away. A few years ago, many politicians of the government camp were involved in collecting signatures against the privatisation of the State Forests, and more than 2 million signatures were collected. Nobody wanted to privatize the woods back then. Today, for the first time, we are dealing with a real attempt at privatisation. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] With a real attempt at privatization. Even if you don't want to call it that, it's an attempt to privatize the forests. We say no. We're gonna vote against it. And even if you smile, mock it, we'll vote against it. And I urge everyone, without exception, to behave like this. But, Mrs. Marshal, on behalf of the people of Jaworzna, I would like to present the signatures that were collected quickly, the signatures protesting the logging of forests there. The people want to live in a clean environment, they want to live in the woods, they don't want the dirty Dungeon. And I'm handing over these signatures. I received them at the committee meeting, so I pass them on, as an additional argument from Silesia, Zagłębie, from the Silesian Voivodeship, an additional argument supporting the motion to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister and accompanying representatives of the Ministry! I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee, the 2 joint committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, a report on the examination of the Law on specific solutions related to the special purpose of forest land. The meeting was held yesterday. It was attended by representatives of the High Commission, present here Minister Sulfurka with employees and President Stalowa Wola. I will no longer be able to present the principles of the law in detail, because the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Gawłowski, did not want to take precious time away from the House. I will move on to the findings and the presentation of the course because this is my duty as rapporteur, I do not take part in the discussion in the committee. The discussion mainly raised the allegation of a lack of public consultation of the project, as well as doubts about the competence of the Sejm committee to assess the conversion of forests, land or other properties. What the rapporteur before me, Senator Gawłowski, also stressed, was also raised that the bill allegedly de facto conceals the privatisation of State Forests. In addition, Senator Szejnfeld took over the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, but they were not recognised in both committees. This is a government project, so Minister Sulphura, present at the meeting, commented in detail on these allegations and, of course, his arguments were accepted by both committees in a subsequent vote. That is why I have the honour to ask for the adoption, the support of both committees for the adoption of the bill without amendment, because that was the result of the vote of both committees. I'll just say that, among other things. I responded to certain allegations raised at the committee meeting, such as the lack of public consultation. On the example of Steel Wola Because it is a law concerning 2 cities, Stalowa Wola and Jaworzna, a law which is kind of decisive for the development and direction of these cities, our small homelands... Thus, in Stalowa Wola, I would like to stress this strongly, was taken by the acclamation of a resolution, a kind of appeal, a resolution addressed to Parliament, Members and Senators, for adoption of a law without amendments. This resolution is a kind of public consultation. Councillors are representatives of the local Stalvowolska community and even unanimously appeal to us, their representatives and in general the whole of Poland, representatives of the nation in parliament to adopt this law as determining whether they will be sentenced to lack of development because of the lack of space to invest, or whether they will have the opportunity to develop, will have a chance to develop. The Town Council of Stalowa Wola consists of representatives of all policy options: the Civic Platform and others, including local committees. Speech by all, literally all participating in the session I listened to it, I was outside of Stalowa Wola at the time, but I had the opportunity and with great joy and satisfaction I listened to the statements of representatives of all options on the City Council of Stalowa Wola With one voice... I would like to see us here, in the Senate, one day, in important matters that determine the future in different areas, talking like this. I had great satisfaction. I must say that the best evidence is that this is a resolution, a resolution adopted by the acclamation. So it's not like the Stalvowol society hasn't spoken about this law. About... There were voices like that... Besides, I think the Minister emphasized it, and he emphasized it very strongly in the explanation, and I will also stress it very strongly... not really me, because at the committee meeting it was emphasized. I'm not presenting my position right now, I'm reporting what happened at the committee meeting because that's my job. That there is no privatisation of the State Forests. It is the conversion of state forests into forests, land and other properties, and everything has a certain security A lot of room in the Act is devoted to securing, for example, the opinion of the intention to convert forests into forests, land and other properties by the competent committee on the environment. Although it was alleged here that the appointment of this committee was a legal error, this is an incorrect indication, but in the eyes of both committees, as I say, these allegations did not find recognition, they were not considered valid, as the result of the vote proved. And that's what I recommend to the High House. I request that this law be adopted without amendment, because that is the position of both committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u217	I would like to ask the rapporteur this question: did the opinion adopted by the Municipal Council in Stalowa Wola only concern investments? Were all these countries only in favour of the creation of an investment in Stalowa Wola, or were they also in favour of logging out forests? Thank you. [[Deputy Marshal Gabr iela Morawska-Stanecka: There you go, Mrs...]] [[I didn't hear right. Again, I'm sorry...]] My question is: did the decision of the city council concern the creation of an investment in Stalowa Wola, or did it concern the logging of forests in the area of nearly 1,000 ha? 'Cause that's the size the minister gave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u218	The bill concerns... The resolution was, of course, about the investment that would be made in this area. After all, even this bill we're talking about doesn't apply to the clippings of the forest. I would like to stress once again that the law does not apply to the clipping of forests. The law deals with the conversion of forests, forest land, and real estate, but not clippings. There's no... [[If your marshal will allow me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u219	Thank you very much. Senator Poor is gonna ask. [[I've already answered. I mean, you can disagree with me, but I just answered like I said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u220	But I don't judge the answer... [[Exactly.]] ...I'd just like to ask. [[Well, that's why...]] I don't judge her in any way, but I'd like to ask. If this isn't about the clipping, then why are we changing the land? How does the city council feel about that? What's the switch for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u221	Of course, this will happen, but there must be certain conditions. There must be an opinion of the Sejm Committee, and then the agreement will be concluded by the Director-General of the State Forests. This will happen, as the law provides, at the request of the competent ministry, after an opinion by another 2 ministries, etc. And even if these actions are taken in such order and there is a clipping of forests, specific groups or complex... Here, of course, are certain conditions of development, plantings, etc. The same is true for road or other investments. We cut out certain areas of the forest, and then there are plantings. Even in my town, in my streets, recently, a few years ago, there was this reconstruction, and completely... We're all going through this. Even old plantings have been cut out, and it's still going on right now. But with me on the new sidewalks, on the new street, there are beautiful trees. So we just have to... If we don't take specific action, I think we're gonna turn into some kind of open-air museum soon. [[In the desert.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u222	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Danuta Jazlowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u223	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to ask Senator Gawłowski a question. Mr. Senator, we know dozens, maybe hundreds of examples of thoughtless, illogical, irrational, even robbing forests. At the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, an example was given that 80 years ago, trees were cut out in the wilderness to create a city and a steelworks. Today we see that after these 80 years we still have to cut out this forest, we still have to cut out this forest so that the city can grow. This is an excellent example of irrational, mindless decision-making. Today we also heard that we need to cut out And here I would like to ask if I had misheard if it was true, 1 thousand and 300 hectares of forest, so that there would be an investment in 2 cities. And the minister of the environment assured us that 260 hectares of forest each year, which is five times less. Is that true, or was I just misheard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u224	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u225	In his letter, the Minister informed the High Commission, the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, that in 2021 he would allocate 260 ha to forestation and probably 81 acres, which is a written declaration, which is true, unless the Minister was wrong and is about to say that he is writing untrue things. Indeed, this law, according to the annex, says that 1 thousand 300 or about 1 thousand 300 ha of forests will be cut out. But for a good cause, the bill is so constructed that, in my opinion, it is a gateway to making further action in the cutting area. That's because, for example, in the article. 3 of this law the government wrote that forests that are covered by various forms of nature conservation will be excluded from the possibility of being destined for industrial activities. Well, I'm sorry if the government would like to write just a bill for this area, but in the annex, it would indicate the parcels that it wants to allocate for this purpose. He wouldn't write about it, but he would refer very specifically to this example. This is absolutely a gateway opening the possibility of privatizing forests in the future, this is the real privatization of forests. I mean, it's going to be commercialized first, and it's going to go to the Treasury company, and then it's going to be subject to normal turnover, because no one's gonna be able to resist that turnover anymore. More: this is also an action to damage forests as such, State Forests as such, because What I'm trying to say here is clear today, unambiguously... In addition, the Minister also spoke about this at the meeting of the joint environmental and economic committees yesterday. I'll just quote the Minister again. That it is addressed by various types of local authorities with a proposal to convert forests to other properties. You mentioned Bialystok and some other municipalities. And you used such a term we refuse. What does it say, High Senate? The fact that today the law allows this type of forest land conversion operations to be carried out already. I will tell you more from my own experience: also for forests or other properties. I will tell you even more from my own experience and not only: such operations in Poland under the current law on forests were carried out at a level, so to speak, tens of thousands of hectares. I never counted it, but I know it's a process that's been going on since 1990. If the government really wanted to help in Stalowa Wola or help in Jaworzno, there are no obstacles to this type of operation. He can do it. There's no need for this specialty. Moreover, since 2016, since the establishment of the company to build these cars... You're Minister Grabaryczyk. Because these cars are gonna be like those ferries that made the keel... the forest is gonna be cut out and the cars aren't gonna be there. That's it. Because that's how it's gonna look. It's just that. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because if he really wanted to do it, he would have done it many times since 2016. There is no need to adopt this law, and I really want to make it clear. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And it's not true that someone wants to resist the development of any city. The government wanted to help Steel Wola, that's what he could have done. Five years is enough to do this kind of operation. Good will on the minister's side is needed. And that would be in line with current regulations, and it wouldn't be in the interest of... I don't really know who. Certainly not in the interest of the State Treasury, because it is a law against the interests of the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u226	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. During yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committees, was there such a question that the name of this law, de facto specific, is inadequate for its purpose? So if this only applies to those two places, Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola, then they should be in the name? What was the translation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u227	Yeah, the Legislature Bureau, it picked it up. But in that case, I'll extend it further, if Mrs. Marshal will allow. The Legislative Office raised the matter of the name and indeed pointed out that this name, if we only want to talk about these 2 places, should only apply to these 2 places and that this name should be changed. But the government was against changing the name. And in the case of the senators' vote, which must also be said clearly, it was 1:12 p.m., Senator, you didn't add it. 13:12, or 13 senators voted in favour of adopting the bill without amendments, and 12... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I just... I'm a member of the committee and I've been to this meeting. So 12 senators voted to reject the bill in its entirety. I just want to give a full picture of this whole situation, and I want us all to know that. There was no agreement to accept such amendments. The legislators also raised the issue of lack of consultation. The government has released the Minister from the obligation to consult. Therefore, Senator, there couldn't have been a consultation since he was fired. Just because someone has adopted a resolution by acclamation does not mean that a consultation has been carried out in a manner that is defined by law. They weren't there, they weren't made. This is a manifest violation of the rules, of the constitution in this case, because such an obligation to consult exists, and this has not been done. Moreover, the functions were mixed up. Elementary constitutional knowledge is enough for us to know that there is legislative, executive and judicial power in Poland. This bill mixed up the functions. The legislative authority, i.e. the Committee on the Environment of the Sejm, is to act as the executive authority, such is the provision in this short law. There's no more legal bibles to put into such a short bill, you can't. And the government did. The government did it! A decent parliamentarians cannot support this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u228	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u229	I'm here to see the Senator rapporteur, if you don't mind. There may be an answer from the spot, if that's more convenient. No problem. I would like to repeat the question, although Mr Gawłowski has already basically answered it. You can switch today... Can the government switch properties with the Forests or can't they, rapporteur? Maybe or not? [[I'm sorry, because...]] Can you switch without a bill or can't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u230	In a small way, of course... Besides, the minister reminded me of that. I would like to stress further that this law is designed for large investors. It's not... If you are talking about a small investment at the moment, about 2, 3 ha or 1 ha for some small investment... Investors who might want to come to Poland want to get an armed area, connected, with access to energy sources, water, etc., etc. Everyone here knows that because there are usually self-governments, practitioners and so on in the Senate. I want to say this, and I want to make it very clear, just like the senator just said... There were questions here. I'm sorry to answer such a short question, but I will. It's said that what... Senator Gawłowski says, for example, that five years ago it was possible to build, say, a factory or anything else, anywhere. I absolutely disagree, because even Stalowa Wola was not prepared for such investments. Most of the municipalities weren't. The first issue of lack of access, communication of individual municipalities... It's about access to the bypasses, to the high-speed routes, etc. Steel Wola has made a great effort... We recently returned the bypass to use. Right now, we're very close to the S19 road, we're gonna take the bypasses. And that's what investors see. The great potential that now exists. He's out there now. You couldn't be anywhere in every city... Let's say we find some land somewhere, some unused land between the town... well, I'm not going to name it. And that's where we're gonna put the factory. There will be no... in order for an event to occur, there must be the right time, place and the right man. 3 conditions. And we know... And then you can build big investments. Because not everyone... And here it is. The Minister stressed this. It has now occurred, all these conditions have been fulfilled. Now it's a possibility. And there's a huge interest in investors in these places. And that's why the bill. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u232	Senator, maybe I'll ask you this question: why Stalowa Wola and Jaworzno and why not New Salt? [[Because you don't have land.]] Excuse me? I've armed 200 hectares of investment areas and filled them with factories, alone... i.e. With the council, of course, with the councilmen. Why Stalowa Wola and Jaworzno? Why can't this factory be built in the vicinity of New Salt? Can you answer that question or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u233	This was not the subject of a committee meeting, why not in New Salt.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u234	Again: why were these two cities chosen? There are no other locations in Poland, no other locations where such factories can be located? What was the argument that this location was?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u235	I said it before: because these areas are prepared... [[Who's prepared?]] These municipalities, these local governments. [[How are they prepared? How are they prepared?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much...]] They're prepared for... [[But again...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] [[Voice from the room: No aggression.]] [[Excuse me?]] [[Voice from the room: No aggression.]] [[I'm asking how they're prepared.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u236	Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz... [[Good.]] I'm asking you to. Senator, can you answer that? [[I answered. That's all I know. I answered.]] Mr. Senator, do you still want to ask? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Please, Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, you are, I think, a lawyer, if I remember correctly. My question is, since the legislator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator Man, I would very much like to ask for peace of mind.]] If your legislator had so many reservations, aren't you as a lawyer... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u238	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Would you gentlemen agree on these issues in the hallway? Because it makes it very difficult to ask questions and also to listen to that question. I'd really like to ask... [[It also applies to the bureau.]] I would also ask you to calm down, because it really disturbs the sitting. Please, Senator, continue... [[Voice from the room: But the secretaries must communicate.]] And I'm so sorry for interrupting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u239	It's okay. Senator, if you're a lawyer and you heard what your legislator said yesterday, and how many reservations she had, didn't you have such a reflection that maybe we're taking shortcuts? That's my first question. And my second question. Senator, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz has already spoken of these 200 ha. For the last 25 years, I've built investments in various places in the country, huge investments. Senator, why did you insist and want to make these investments, acquire land not in a normal way, but as part of a specialty? Right away, every reasonable man comes to the idea that this is an absolute conspiracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u240	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u241	Stalowa Wola no longer has almost a square metre of land for investments. I said that last night at the committee meeting. Steel Wola was created around... You picked it up by the senator. Luckily, there were such great statesmen as Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski and in 1937 they decided to build the Southern Works of the Huts, Stalowa Wola, around which a beautiful city grew. The inhabitants of the surrounding villages and not only, because people from all over Poland came because engineers... It has been a great glory for decades, even in that system, in general the Central Industrial District. A beautiful city was created that provided employment, education and the future. The statesmen thought of children and grandchildren. A beautiful city was created, which is a garden despite the cutting out of the forest, because it was created in the middle of the forest, under construction and until today it is a city full of greenery, trees, pine trees. In general, what needed to be preserved and multiplied was preserved. And Stalowa Wola, with the industry in her DNA, can be a green garden. I invite everyone to eventually check out Stalowa Wola and see how beautiful it is there, that it is not a concrete city, but full of greenery and... [[Voice from the hall: And flowers.]] ...yeah, flowers, greens and everything. It connects... I'll say it, I don't have to, now I'm just talking to myself. It combines, just thinking of man, nature, nature with the needs of man, just like this they made ours in the Second Republic. And I'm glad that there are people who are thinking about how beautifully to combine it. We're always standing in front of difficult choices, and we can't just cross... Stalowa Wola because she was sort of in the middle of the forest, like the senator said, on the one hand she's only got woods, and then San... We don't have the ability to develop. And hence such a unanimous resolution, all Councilmen of Steel Wola. Because without this bill, without thinking about the future such cities as Stalowa Wola, Jaworzno are doomed to degradation and vegetation just these people. Best proof that this is why these actions are You asked me that. That Stalowa Wola is shrinking in terms of the number of inhabitants. I live in Stalowa Wola, I came there after my studies, in Huta Stalowa Wola, I was legal counsel for several years, I know it well. All those listed in the annex of the plot are the steelworks Wola, then, still in 1937, they were thinking that the industry would continue to develop beautifully... But of course we know, the Second World War came and already the Germans used this work, which was so beautifully opened by Mościcki. And that's what it's like to continue with COP, to create a second possibility for such a city as Steel Wola. [[Can I? Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u242	Senator Komarnicki. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u243	Senator, I'm impressed with your determination. I love people who fight with such determination... [[Because they're like that in Steel.]] ...about my territory and I'm... [[New Salt, too, ma'am.]] [[They're here. I'm talking about Stalowa...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Dear Senator...]] [[I've already told you...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Thank you very much. I have a question...]] I just want to ask. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Good. There you go.]] Dear Senator, I asked you more as a lawyer than a historian. Why, as a lawyer with such a reservation...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u244	I'll answer that. You know perfectly well, I'm a lawyer too, and we should value ourselves... Of course, the legal opinion is always an opinion, and the decisions belong to the sovereign, the nation, they belong to the senator, the Member. We eat them, but I don't have to agree with one opinion or another. We know what it's like, we're often gonna ask for an opinion like that today, and tomorrow we're gonna get a lawyer prepared by another legislator or another lawyer or another expert from another firm... We know that very well. After that, there are 2, 3 instances in court, because often and the court is wrong and everything... Although we could say, how did the lawyer make a mistake? Well, that's how it is. We have to make... Of course, we're following... I'm a lawyer, you have to be guided... but at the same time, in your thinking, you have to look at what's good for a man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u245	Thank you very much, ma'am. [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, one last short question.]] But is this the next tour, or is that a question, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u246	Last one, short one. Can you tell me who's in charge, what's the option in this wonderful steel will? Because it's important too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u247	Of course, the president... As far as you're concerned, you're welcome. The President is a representative of Law and Justice, Mr Lucius Naberezny. Yesterday, you were listening and seeing, and you met... [[Yeah, I was listening, but it wasn't right for me to ask you yesterday, which is why I'm asking you today because we're talking in detail. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u248	Thank you very much... [[You asked, I answer, but it's not related to the report...]] Thank you very much. [[You're welcome, but these questions aren't related to reporting. I'm the draftsman of the committee...]] Senator, if you believe that the question is not related to the report, you can answer that you will not answer that question, you have the right to do so. But I have a question for the senator. You've talked a lot about Stalowa Wola, and Jaworzno is the neighborhood of my constituency, and I have two questions for you. First of all... Well, I don't think it's a demoted city, as you might say. Why, given that there are a lot of mines in Silesia, which, according to the government's plan, will be closed down in different places, and that these are the areas that will need to be developed The choice was made in Jaworzno? Did the committee even consider it? Especially if you have to cut out these woods and if there's so much social resistance, what did we see? And the second question is, was there any information at all about what the investment would be? That's what I'm interested in. So, questions about Jaworzna.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u249	No, it wasn't raised at the committee meeting. As for Jaworna, you're also the senator in the questions... But there was no such question at the meeting: why...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u250	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Gromek's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u251	Thank you, because practically Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz asked the same question. I'll take the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u252	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld a question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u253	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have one question for you, Senator Sagatowski and another question for the rapporteur, Senator Gawłowski. To the rapporteur, Senator Sagatovska. You have spoken a great deal about the sovereign, you have recalled the importance and role of the sovereign in a democratic state. You didn't use the concept of a democratic state, but that's how we understand it. I'd like to ask you why, to your knowledge, this sovereign has been completely ignored, treated completely without respect. 'Cause I don't want to say "per leg" when I'm doing this project. I ask because this is the only conclusion that can be drawn from the legislative process, in which the same draft law is now passed by the Sejm. It was not consulted by the public, was not consulted by the social partners, it was not even chaired by the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. How do you explain that about the sovereign in this context?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u254	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The designer is the government, and I would ask the government to answer. This question was not asked at the committee meeting, so I would ask the Minister to answer it. It was about pre-trials, we got a project like this... a bill like that. Well, here's the question. I would eventually ask, Mrs. Marshal, that he be redirected to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u256	Thank you very much. Senator, will you ask the Minister this question, or shall I write it down for the Minister? Are you going to ask them again? [[Then, when you're Minister...]] [[Yes.]] Or... The Minister has already heard, maybe he'll answer. Senator Wojciech Piecha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It is known that in Poland we have 10 million hectares of forests. Yes? It's 1 000 200 ha, that's the number we're talking about. This is 0.0001 of this total area. We have 2 locations for investments, investments important for Poland. But we say no, because you have to cut out a thousand 200 hectares of forest. After the war the area of forests in Poland was 24% , now it's 31%, so this area is increasing and increasing every year. It does not shrink, as Senator Gawłowski is trying to tell us here, that this area is shrinking and that this is a big problem. The areas in Jaworzno were industrial areas, until the 1980s there was a void, there was no forest there. It was only since 1990 that they began to plant there, after rehabilitating these areas. These were the areas of the former mine, which was called, apparently, the Paris Commune. These were the areas where the sand mines were located, and that's why they can be used for industry, for such an investment. It's close to the power plant, there's proper terrain, there's a freeway, and that's why this area was chosen. The second area, in Stalowa Wola, was also a post-industrial area... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry, but I have a feeling we're here to ask questions...]] Okay, but... [[...and you say it with all due respect, you speak as if it were a discussion. You'll have the right to do that at the right time. This is a performance, and I would really like to ask that we stick to it.]] Okay, okay. I have a question for Mr. Gawłowski... [[Oh, that's right.]] Did those numbers you quoted... Because you were talking about thousands of hectares, that this is the degradation of these forests, that the climate is going to get worse, because 1 thousand 200 hectares of forests will be cut out and there will be a desert in Poland, and we will suffer for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u258	Thank you, Senator. That was a question. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u259	Are we going to suffer for this? That's how I understand the question. [[Well, that's why we're gonna suffer.]] The foresters are sitting there... Four trees produce oxygen for one man a day. Do I remember correctly, Mr. Director? Good. I remember well. You're the one who's gonna answer your own question. [[But 1,200 ha? Ladies, well...]] Well, that's... [[Mr. Senator, count it honestly. You were a minister, and if such an investment were to happen...]] [[But, gentlemen, please... ladies and gentlemen, there is a formula for asking questions and answers. Senator, you're welcome... and Senator rapporteur, please answer the questions...]] Mr. Marshal... [[... and please do not interfere with the answer.]] I was in the middle of an answer. I just wanted to clarify my knowledge. I'll say it again. Would it hurt? 4 trees produce oxygen for 1 man a day. Yeah, it'll hurt. [[Couldn't hurt, couldn't hurt...]] Yeah, it'll hurt. You asked me a question. Then why are you asking questions? [[Gentlemen of the Senators, I beg you...]] If you know the answer, why do you ask? [[Gentlemen, well, really, polemics are far from any parliamentary finesse, the polemics of such a]] I don't know what to say, Mr. Marshal. The senator asked... [[Well, if...]] ...the question is, I'm in the middle of an answer, and the senator is answering himself right away. Then why does he ask? If he knows better, don't ask. [[Gentlemen, please, let's get back to...]] I answer unambiguously: it will clearly hurt. It's obviously gonna hurt. Poland needs to achieve the objective of increasing forestry and acquiring new areas for forestry. A few weeks ago, at the climate committee meeting, Minister Sarka said that 200 acres of forestation... Why so little? Because there are no new areas where new woodeds can be carried out. And therefore, since there are no areas where forestation can be carried out, it is scandalous to cut down and allocate land that is already wooded to the forest... And of course, we're aware of that, and I could be giving a long lecture here, but I don't want to bore you, and some of us aren't going to accept it anyway. A long lecture on how many people lived on Earth 100 years ago, less than a billion, today we are approaching the 10 billion - how we are demoting the environment - as people we need to demonstrate in the part about reducing pollution and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, that in this zero-emission process, or actually a sustainable economy, we need to increase forestry and we need to acquire new areas. And you're going so 19th century, against the current. I mean, in the 19th century, it was cool. And in the 21st century, any normal person with basic knowledge of climate protection issues would not have dared to do with the thesis that the senator had just made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u260	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question for you not as committee rapporteur. Because I've been to a committee meeting and I don't want to spend time here. Only as a resident of Stalowa Wola. Because... [[I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but technically this part... and that's the question I asked, I mean. questions to the rapporteurs.]] But that's what's bothering me. That's an informative, brief question. You guys talk about 80 years all the time. How do you count these 80 years? Because 80 years... That would be 1941. What, in 1941 was the Stalowa Wola?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u262	Excuse me, I don't know how the senator counts. The 80th anniversary of the Steelworks Wola was celebrated in 2018. Since 1938. I don't know how you count. Sorry, something's... I'm counting well. [[Okay, but today it's 2021. I did math, because I don't know the history of Stalowa Wola and I was tired of it. And that's the only reason I'm asking that question.]] Until then, yes, that's right. But for example, when you heard that, I was talking about the celebrations. And perhaps you have a committee meeting... But this really is beyond... [[But, Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u263	But that's what everyone said yesterday about those 80 years. [[But, Mr. Senator, well, I'm sorry, so...]] Okay, but I attach a lot of importance to numbers, Mr. Marshal... [[Okay. I see.]] ...and I want to be clear here. Now you've explained it to me. [[She explained. I see.]] That answer is sufficient. Thank you very much. [[Thank you for that question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u264	Okay. [[I'm sorry I referred to a different date yesterday.]] So this case is settled. Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u265	Thank you. I have a question for Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, if I may. Mr. Senator, I, to be honest, am not surprised to the people of Jaworzna and the residents of Stalowa Wola that they want and expect investment in their territory. These are jobs. There is no such commune in Poland, I think, where people do not wait for attractive, well paid, interesting, interesting jobs. But are these jobs to be created in the place where we draw oxygen for our future, for our children, for our grandchildren, for the future inhabitants of these cities? And my question is this, Mr. Senator: what are you motivating the action of the director of State Forests who comes to the Senate and earlier to the Sejm, with a draft law that says that in 2021 we will forest 240 hectares? That means waiting for an oxygen-producing forest for about 20 and 25 years, I guess. Right? [[Even longer.]] To ensure that residents are expected I have no doubt about that. We're gonna cut out jobs so they can breathe better, 1,000 hectares of forest. How can this be motivated? How can that be justified? As Chairman of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, can you justify such conduct by the Director of State Forests and the Government of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u266	In this case, I am in a comfortable situation because I asked the Director-General of the State Forests, present at the committee meeting, a question about his opinion on this particular law. Neither half of the words supported this law, and therefore I assume that not only the General Director of State Forests formally does not support this law. He has some difficulty, and I fully understand this difficulty, because his direct superior is the Minister of Climate and Environment, and he himself can be cancelled in basically 5 minutes. It was a big play... I'm talking about the answer we got at the committee meeting. He didn't support it. He tried to talk a lot, but kind of next to the bill. I have spoken to a crowd of foresters and I must say that I have not met with a single positive opinion about this law. All foresters, without exception, say something like this: if this is really the case, it is possible to replace land on the basis of the laws in force today. It's legal. An appropriate procedure must be followed for changes to the spatial planning plan, etc., etc. It's possible. What's more And the General Director of State Forests knows that very well. The adoption of the law will result in a significant loss of impact on the budget of the State Forests, and in fact the Treasury. I don't know if it's a few dozen million zlotys, but I've heard of these calculations. It's really the intention here, I mean. deprive the State Forests of tens of millions of zlotys, privatize it and deprive the State Forests of tens of millions of zlotys. That's the real intention here. Because if someone wanted to make a trade, they could do it today. I will repeat this once: there is no need to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u267	Thank you very much, Senator. We've exhausted the list of questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[After so many critical words, he doesn't want to.]] [[Voice from the room: If he doesn't want to, he doesn't.]] I asked... I understand you're looking for a microphone button. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: Yes, we are looking for a microphone.]] I would ask you to allow the Minister to do this simple task. We're about to find out whether the Minister wants to speak or not. We are all looking forward to this declaration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! High Senate! Of course, I'll allow myself to speak. I've been listening to your discussion... [[Voice from the room: The discussion will not be yet.]] The bill's draft... [[Minister, because the state...]] But if you don't mind, I'd rather... [[Voice from the room: We don't want to listen to you when you're behind...]] I think what I'm saying is important... [[But I think, Senator, that we have adopted such a formula that ministers can act anyway, and yes...]] [[Voice from the room: We can see you on the screen.]] I would like to say with all my power that this bill, which I have the opportunity to present... I would like to say that this is a project which, above all, is intended to solve the problems of acquiring a location for investments which are justified by the very important investment needs of the state. Of course, all the doubts you raised during the discussions at committee meetings and today in plenary... I can say that I understand and accept them to a certain extent. But remember that. And I want to make that very clear. In the past, Poland as a country, whether under the left or under the Civic Coalition or under the United Right, has had the opportunity to look for investors or propose investment attractive places for investors to give jobs to Poles. We don't all have to drive to Berlin or Dresden or Vienna to find a place to work. If you think that's why we have less emissions, congratulations on thinking. But it's not. So we are looking for such a solution and we want to propose such a solution so that it is possible to propose land that can be invested or where investments can be made, which I think nobody in this room needs to be explained, even for Silesia. In the context of the challenges we have, especially in the context of the Green Deal, the energy challenges, Silesia needs today investments that give jobs. We will not make these investments in places where people live and we will not tear down houses, but naturally we have the situation that we come into contact with nature with the nature that we respect. I think that, especially now, in the post-pandemic period, especially this is what we pay attention to, we are sensitive to it. But the investment, which is to be built in Jaworzna, is to be built in the mines that used to be an industrial area. Today is an attempt to develop this area as if forest management, not quite successful to be clear, but it is. In areas after the mine, Jan Kanty, an investment is to be created, which is expected to be a very expected investment in Silesia, giving mainly a large number of jobs, located right next to the industrial zone, by the road S, the road of rapid traffic, in a well-connected place and in a place where we have very high energy networks giving us the opportunity to start this plant in a short term, in a place that has the appropriate infrastructure. As far as Stalowa Wola is concerned, the city of Stalowa Wola, for historical reasons, which the Senator rapporteur spoke of, is the place where the steel Wola had previously functioned. It was more than 350 ha, which in the 1990s went to the State Forests because Huta Stalowa Wola was having problems with her obligations, and it was the land owned by Huta Stalowa Wola, which paid its liabilities to the State Treasury. As far as consultations are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this argument in this respect is not entirely met. After all, we could insist and require that consultations are necessary here on this project if the solutions proposed in the draft law directly affect the area of action of the local government. But it's not. We here meet the expectations of the local government. None other than the local government of Jaworzna and the local government of Stalowa Wola, especially Stalowa Wola, have been seeking for many years to get a chance to develop and that the people of that region, especially Podkarpacie, simply have jobs. As for Jaworna, I've already spoken. Jaworzno is doing it right now, and it's being consulted... He's making a local zoning plan, which requires consultation. All these issues, including nature, must be taken into account in these discussions by Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola. And the issue of the unconstitutionality of the rules, which was raised in the explanatory memorandum of the Legislative Office. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised to hear this argument... this issue can always be raised, but in this case, please remember one thing. The solution which is included in the Act, according to which the replacement agreement will always be the opinion of the Environment Committee, is an expression of the concern that this conversion process should be carried out transparently so that society, parliamentarians, senators, Members of Parliament can have an insight into the whole operation. Since you have so many doubts about the operation of land conversion, let it take place at the elevated courthouse, in fact, at every stage of this exchange, let the Members have the opportunity to speak. This opportunity to speak is not binding on the Director of State Forests, she de facto does not oblige the Director of Forests to conclude a replacement agreement It is part of the consultation of this conversion process. The director doesn't have to make this switch because nobody said that she was in a situation where it turned out that there was no investor, it would actually happen. Therefore, this law has a specific time frame. We give you 2 years, the government gives you 2 years to find an investor and to meet all the issues. The idea is to make the investment happen within 10 years. If it is not realized, the land will return to the State Forests. If it turns out that the damage in the field, in the condition of this plot, the Forests can say: then please pay us the equivalent according to the valuation that has been made. Ladies and gentlemen, issues of influence... This was raised at the committee meeting, but I would like to say once again very clearly that there is no harm to the forest fund here, especially in the context of national parks. The forest fund, linked to measures that affect the maintenance of national parks, arises from completely different exemptions, such as those which are not related to the State Forests. There's no such connection here, there's no point raising that. All the time, there's a thread that says it's privatization. Legally, this argument is extremely questionable. After all, if we are talking about the exchange between public entities such as the Treasury, the State Treasury company, with the majority share of the State Treasury, or the local government, or public entities, where is the privatisation here? Well, I understand that it's easy to raise that argument for the purposes of social communication, because perhaps someone will believe that story. But there is no danger that there is any privatisation operation of up to 1 m2 of the State Forest area. And another thing. This conversion operation is linked to the fact that we want to make it clear, also in the social message, that in the implementation of such investments there must be no damage to the property of the State Forests. Therefore, it can be converted land, which will be useful for forest management, so we convert the forest into forest, and if it is not forest, it must be land that is suitable for forestation. And one more corrigendum about a case that keeps popping up. Well, that number you're talking about, Mr Gawłowski, was talking about forestation, of course it's in the financial plan, but it doesn't have anything to do with reality. This is a plan that we use in the financial policy of the State Forests. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland during the year, land with an area of hundreds of hectares is forested, yes, hundreds of hectares. Year by year we plant 500 million trees, repeat, 500 million trees. It is of course very much, it is very much, year after year. [[Voice from the room: For six years...]] And we harvest between 38 and 40 million m3 of wood per year, which we treat as renewable raw material and organic raw material. Please keep that in mind. Even if today we are talking about getting wood for any investment, we are always talking about getting raw materials that are renewable. Foresters have been doing this for years without loss to the state forests, because consequently the forest area is growing from 21%, as it was during World War II, to 30%. today, but also increases the volume of wood mass per hectare. We are one of the top European figures in terms of this volume, and thanks to the policies of the State Forests, thanks to the foresters' economy this volume per hectare it is over 260 m3 of tree. So here you can't talk about any natural losses, we really compensate them in any other place, because it's necessary. However, some investments have to be made by the State. These are road investments, these are network investments. and these are also sometimes situations where we need more space for investment, for activities related to the construction of workplaces, jobs or to offer investors places that can be attractive, for example, in terms of accessibility or access to infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u269	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jolanta Hibner. The question will be asked remotely. And the next senators, please signal Senator Secretary's wish to ask a question. You're welcome, Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u270	Thank you very much. Minister, a draft procedure for the conversion of forest property into investment areas is presented. Since I am an engineer and I have made thousands of investments, I would like to know what you are planning in Jaworzna and in these wooded areas, as you are proposing in Stalowa Wola and in these areas. Tell me this, because you write generals: state defence, electronic technologies, electromobility, hydrogen technologies. Do the residents who said they wanted to have an investment site there know that they can be there, for example. A nuclear power plant in hydrogen technology? Because you predicted it, too. What happens if, for example, Ain't no investor gonna report to the area? What will you do then? Is the forest coming back? How can you do that if it's already cut? How will this be compensated? You're talking about switching, but you're not talking about what kind of investment it is. It's the first time I've met with the fact that you don't know what the investment is, and you're gonna have to get wooded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u271	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u272	What's to be invested in? Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I cannot give you a specific name, I think it would be negotiating and strategically unwise if I said something like that. But as far as Jaworzno is concerned, we obviously know that today 120 ha is going to be a factory that will be connected with the production of modern electric cars. And that's for sure, that's the intention, that's very advanced. As President Gawłowski said, the assumption was that we would be able, as a government, to start earlier with this investment, but certain procedural matters, such as the acquisition of these land, are dragging so long that it will probably be difficult for it to be autumn this year. But we're definitely talking about an investment that... In particular, in the case of Jaworzna it is already specified what the investment will be. As far as the rest of the land is concerned, these will be co-operatives in this area that are to operate there. As it will look like in its entirety, it is difficult to say, because please also remember that when it is announced that the State has such land for development, investors report their opportunities. As far as Steel Wola is concerned, we are talking about the high technologies to be used in these plants that are to be created there, related to microprocessors. I can't cheat on details, but there are also 2 smaller bets that are planned for foreign investors. These two investors are already known to the Stalowa Wola government. What about when there is no investment? Ladies and gentlemen, if someone reads this law with good will, they see that there is no deforestation if the investor is unknown. That's not gonna happen. If it turns out that the investor doesn't find it, it'll simply return to the estate of the State Forests. There is no such assumption that at the moment when the President signs the Act That's not gonna happen. If an investor arrives, there will be a specific investment and it will be known that so much and so many hectares are needed, then only then will all related building permits, consent, impact assessments, etc. be implemented, which will decide. But that's only when you know what's supposed to be in the area. There is no situation here, Senator, that simply someone, as I said, just after the entry into force of the law, on the assumption that the law would enter into force, would deforest these areas. The Act clearly states that if the investment had not been created or if there had been no investor within two years, these land would have returned to the stock of State Forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u273	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm here to fill in Senator Hibner's questions because I had the same ones. If the state in Stalowa Wola's case doesn't know or know exactly, but they won't say, although Senator Sagatowska said that the local community doesn't know what's going to happen there... Well, why such a defined area of land? I'm just gonna serve 'cause I checked it out, and I figured, like, The Volkswagen factory in September is 220 ha, the Toyota factory in Wałbrzych, 50 ha, the Silesian mine is 10 and 20 ha. 900 ha is a very large area, really very large. The Minister has just said that the Jizera factory is about 120 ha, once again so many are cooperative plants, although in my opinion it is also very much. But I'd like to ask you a question like that. In the press there was information that was still in March this year that Izera would be located in Ruda Śląska. Why am I asking this? I've asked a similar question in the context of Bytom. In Silesia, Upper Silesia, in this black Silesia, and not in Jaworzno, there are plenty of excavations. The specific location of the Silesian Red has been indicated. These aren't forest areas, these aren't areas where you have to tear down houses, as it's said. They're unusable. Why was this changed? Why Jaworzno? And why is this concrete surface about Steel Vola? We don't even know what's going to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u276	As far as the location in Silesia is concerned, it was so that before the final decision was made that it would be Jaworzno, there were several other proposals. It's no secret that, among other things. The Silesian Red was considered. Ultimately, the analysts who developed this project for the government made this decision, not another one. I don't know all the data. I can't quote them right now. On the basis of economic analyses, availability analyses and strategic analyses, it was decided that this would be the area of the economic zone that operates in Jaworzna, that this would be an uprising in the vicinity of this city, on these land. But when it comes to specific issues, I don't have that kind of data in this position that I'm in. As far as Stalowa Wola is concerned, there these investment procedures have been done by the city for many, many years. All I can tell you is that, according to this knowledge I have, these investments are supposed to be related to high technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u277	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u278	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Part of my question has already been asked by Mrs. Jolanta Hibner. Maybe I'll just see if I can ask. Will a foreign investor who wants to make an investment here that we don't know about buy this land, or will the state, through its companies, make a deal with him? 'Cause if someone's gonna invest a lot of money, get into a big business, he'd rather have it done on his turf. And given that we can get rid of this land, I'm going to ask how the ministerial side looks at it. Wouldn't that be a threat to our town? Because then the same investor could do whatever he wanted on that ground. If you require such an in-depth, meaningful opinion from Parliament, it would be good to say what you want to do there. Because it doesn't matter whether it's 2 or 3 electric car factories, which were already mentioned 5 or 6 years ago, the prime minister promised them and it didn't work out. Whether we're just gonna lease this land or there's gonna be totally different investments that are gonna create electricity. Well, this was about some kind of power plant. How about nuclear? How about hydrogen? How about a large photovoltaic complex? We don't know, we're wandering around like children in fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u280	I think the senator kind of answered herself, because that's what the bill says. Reaching the committee's opinion is the stage where the committee will question exactly what the objectives of this land are. And then we'll be able to answer exactly what an investor is, who it is, whether it's a foreign entity, whether it's a domestic entity, what he wants to do there, etc. That is why we have added this element so that there are no such questions as are emerging today, or doubts that suddenly something is about to arise that is going to threaten local communities. That's not what this bill is for. She is about to create new jobs, to allow them to be created, and the opinion of the committee, which will be required when closing the transaction, will be an opportunity to answer the questions that the senator is asking today. Today I am unable to answer them and to say specifically whether the company will be called Kowalski or Nowak. Right? Today it's beyond my ability. [[Thank you. But you didn't tell me what happened to land, what happened to land ownership if there was a foreign investor.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we're replacing this land so that the Forests are de facto certain that they own the land. Someone who will take over this land will decide whether they will enter as a mass company... Most of the time it is. Right? Mostly it's a contribution. If the investor is the Treasury or the local government... That's what she'll decide. [[I'll dig. I'm asking about a foreign investor. If he decides to...]] I don't think there are any enemies of foreign investors in this room, so... [[But the property of the land will remain outside.]] In some context, it will certainly be a trade agreement between entities that will decide to build, to invest in such an area. I can't answer that question today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz... Senator Ewa Matecka. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Please tell us whether the government, or whether the State Forests are able to fully compensate for the loss of more than 1 thousand 200 hectares of forests through new plantings. Is it possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u283	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u284	Senator, it's possible. It's not only possible, we're just doing it. Foresters do it every year. Please do not suggest with any numbers, we have in Poland at the moment really... If we looked at all kinds of waste, we would see that we have about 150 thousand different types of land that forests can de facto manage. We also take over the land from KOWR, we do it systematically. Forests also buy land under the law of the original purchase, which gives the law. We're also changing the rule: right now, we're going to focus on buying enclaves that come in if they're the right size. This is an element that so far... Although the law gave the Forests the privilege of buying various types of land that adhere to the State Forests, the Forests did not always benefit from it. This was also due to economic reasons. Today, the State Forests are in such a good financial condition that we are able to buy additional land, forest it and allocate it to forest management, so that we achieve the goal that is enshrined in the strategy, i.e. the forest of Poland at 33%. [[Can I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u285	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u286	We wish that it would be so, Minister. Please tell me why in July 2019, when Prime Minister Morawiecki announced in the election campaign that 500 million trees would be planted by the end of the year, the State Forests were very careful not to say critically. They said there was no land. And I have a question: is this the task of planting 500 million trees from the end of the year, exactly from July to the end of the year, because then this announcement was made, by the Forests? Unless the Prime Minister meant the standard we've heard about, what the Forests plant on the average of the year. Wasn't that something new, if that's true, just a confirmation of what the Forests are doing? Or was it a whole new assignment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u287	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Of course, I will not comment on what the Prime Minister said, because I do not know this statement and I do not know exactly what it was about, I do not know in what context these words were said. However, I can confirm that the National Forests plant 500 million trees year after year. This is the number that results from forest management, which results from the fact that these are the things that are planned, resulting from plans for forest equipment, budget planning and the whole policy related to foresting, both those areas where wood was harvested and those that are suitable for forestation, i.e. various types of wasteland or land that the Forests acquired. I repeat once again: year after year it is 500 million trees and even more.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u289	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask whether this is a general law concerning all investors who will want to invest anywhere in Poland. I ask this because we, as a parliament, should draw up rules that are general and apply to every citizen, every entrepreneur on the same terms. If someone wants to build a carpentry plant somewhere in my municipality or next town, will they be able to use it exactly the same way as it was included in this law? Or is it a law written under some particular, big foreign investor? Because you have a lot of rhetoric about national projects in your mouth, etc., but this domestic investor has to deal with the rules that they are, and no one is preparing him with a special law saying that he can deforest, deforest, do anything, etc., but he has to use the same rules that apply to the whole of Poland. Why, then, does a large investor have better rights than one who is small and creates jobs because it is large or maybe foreign? And the next question is, do you have any sense? I'm talking to the government, but I'm also talking to the parliamentary majority. That we're still breaking laws with some special laws? And this is a special law concerning, I'm sorry, a digging through the Vistula Mills, where all the building laws went to the dumpster, and these are the laws concerning some special investments, roads and all sorts of other things. Do you not think that if there is a bad construction, investment law, etc. And you have to come up with a law that rules out all the laws just so you can build some point investment. Then why don't we just have all these special laws in one place and all of us can invest on the same terms? I do not understand why someone who is a large investor, the best foreign, can do anything in Poland, and the man who wants to set up a small craft factory must go through all procedures related to environmental law, construction law, various, various, various. They're fired from everything. Where does that lead? It's just that in Poland everyone is treated the same way? That's the question. Do you make rules only under one, under some imaginary, great man who will come and change everything? It's just that this is completely absurd. And why are you trying to run things like this and acting like this? It's just... I simply do not agree that in Poland the one who is a small entrepreneur is treated differently, or the one who is big and even better the one who is foreign. Where does that lead? This is absolutely the way to nowhere, that is the destruction of the state, destruction, consistent destruction of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u291	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: I mean...]] But I would remind you that the questions should refer to the content of the bill under consideration today and, however, do not bear the character of political polemics, because we will have the right to do so in a moment. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I thank you for that question. It has already appeared in such a letter that I received from the Business Centre Club, and in which there was a doubt similar to yours. That's why, among other things. We're not mentioning a particular company today? Because it's not a bill that's made under some company. It's just not how she's done. This is not a bill made under a particular company. Of course we know that there are de facto such companies, right? Who want to build a bet, etc. That's one thing. But there's land next door, and if an entrepreneur comes forward and says he wants to invest in this area, he has an idea for a business and he wants to create jobs there, for example. Mr. Senator, who is a businessman It'll be able to do it. After all, we do not close the gate in this draft law before applying for a proposal to this local government or within the economic area that will be there and before starting such an activity. Well, just so we're clear. [[This is the law that is...]] It's not my jurisdiction, and it's not up to me to decide. I'm piloting this bill today. If the senator reports to Stalowa Wola today and says that he has an idea for such a business and that he wants to pursue it, it will have to be taken into account. [[Voice from the room: But is all of Poland...]] It's not about the bill, it's about what offer...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u293	Gentlemen, I ask the senators to abide by the parliamentary procedure: there is a question and there is the answer of the Minister. [[I wanted to ask, then.]] Senator Klein will ask you an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u294	Supplementary question: does this apply to the whole of Poland? Whether it's a general law or it's a law Just for 1 commune?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u295	But this bill applies to 2 places: Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola. [[Well, that's what I'm talking about. It's walking.]] She lists specific plots that are annexed to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u296	Minister, and now, as in my municipality of Łeba... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: Mr. Senator...]] ...we're gonna want to make an investment, we're gonna come here with another bill. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So for the municipality of Łeba there will be another law, for the municipality of Smoldzino Another one, for New Salt Another one. We're gonna make laws under the commune anyway. Well, Minister, where does this lead? This is completely absurd. You guys know what kind of company it's gonna be. You're lying to us, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u297	Senator, once again, this is a place to ask questions, not to conduct polemics. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u298	I think I've exhausted my answer in this regard. Of course, we are counting on a large investor who needs a lot of space to offer such a place. But if it's a domestic investor who says he's 100 ha... I know there's an investor in Stalowa Wola who says he needs 50 ha and he's considered. Then why wouldn't the one who needs 100 ha be considered? All the more reason... If this is a normal investment offer that gives you the opportunity to invest in this area, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u299	Thank you, Minister. Senator Dorota Tobiszowska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Secretary of State! Let me put it this way: I am very sad that I am listening to this discussion because I am a senator of Silesian land, I am from Rudy Silesia. And I have a question for you: do you know that you were with me, Minister Kurtyka, along with your deputies? I personally visited you to show the area in Ruda Śląska. My territory is a post-industrial area, which is, in my mind, and not only very appropriate for such an investment. Because I understand that we're still talking about the area in Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola for the investment, as far as I'm concerned. Then I received a preliminary promise that the area is right, that the location is very good, the more so that I will emphasize here I am from Rudy Śląska, where we have 3 mines in our territory. Now these are 3 moves of one mine, the mine of Red. I personally serve 6,000 800 people in the organizational department of these three mine movements. If you're always saying "and I'm listening very carefully to what you're saying, that it's about the expectations of the local government, the availability of communication, the availability of infrastructure, the attractiveness of the area in terms of availability... You talked 2 or 3 times about new jobs in Silesia, about determination, about the need to create these jobs, etc., etc. Then the preliminary decision was made with me in Ruda Śląska, that the area was well founded. In the context that in the near future, according to the social contract, the mines will be extinguished, closed, in the near future, because in a month's time, 2 months, one movement will be closed, the movement will be closed, the room will be closed, and in the near future the next movement will be closed, I have a question for you: did you know that? If you knew, perhaps there wouldn't be this discussion today. And I'm really sorry to hear what's going on here. Such a stupid situation arose because... I don't want to compete with Jaworzn or Stalowa Wola. The senator's been giving me a few minutes... well, it's like a fanfare. about the city of Stalowa Wola etc. Yeah, I could do that, too. I'm from Rudy Śląska, where I was born, where I still work at the mine. We can break through like this. But then probably not a single tree... Maybe just a few would be cut off. And there wouldn't be a discussion today. I'm sad that I have to come to you... You weren't a guest in my office at the time, and you didn't look at the area, but Minister Kurtyka and his deputy did. That's why I'm asking you if you shouldn't change this area yet. I'm asking about the possibility of discussing the fact that someplace where the mining sites are, where the industry will be destroyed, and in the near future... This location is just better. I happen to be from Rudy Silesia. I've invited the Minister. I had to speak now and put a pebble in the backyard. I'm so sorry, but... I ask you, isn't it better for all of us? Then this discussion just wouldn't have happened. And the government, Minister, is in favour. We had agreements with the local government, with the local authorities, with the residents. Like I said, we're slowly decommissioning jobs for 6,000 800 people in three moves in my mine Red. Thank you very much. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u301	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u302	Mr. Marshal, Senator, I wonder... It came out right now as if it were my decision that such a choice had been made. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have no authority in this area, I just represent the government before the Senate on legislative matters. I have no part in this choice of location, this choice of place. All I know is that Rudy's question was indeed analyzed, that such a discussion was taking place. There were several other places in Silesia that were taken into account, but the decision was finally made. About Jaworna. What reasons, also important social conditions, which your senator is talking about here, have decided that in Jaworzno and not in Ruda Śląska? I can't settle that. I really wasn't involved. As I say, I have only the authority to present the government's position on the legislative provisions of this law, only this is what I have received. And as for the cover concerning the choice of the place, i.e. the choice of the annex to this law, the fact that the plot from Jaworzna in this annex is... I just don't have the knowledge to answer properly so that the senator forgives me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll give you a few numbers, and you'll try to draw conclusions. We are talking about jobs, so I understand that the unemployment rate will be a good measure of what is happening in a given area. Jaworzno, the unemployment rate of 5%. Steel Wola 5,4%. Nysa is a city in my constituency, 8.9%. But let's move on. There's no need to cut anything in Nysa. There is a subzone of the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone, armed, large area, next to the ring road. To make it even more interesting... We're talking about electric cars. Well, in this sub-zone in Nysa it's already built... By the end of 2021, Umicore will start producing cathodes for lithium-ion batteries cells used in electric vehicles. Well, then I don't know what else I need. Minister, this bill doesn't defend itself at all. One thing you've done with this bill, and that's what I'm going to say, because I'm sorry, and you've made every senator and member of every district look up to each other. I suspect that the discussion in the Seym looked similar, unless it was not noticed what the point of this law was. And the fact that there's a gmere by the woods... Here projects have already been introduced several times, or actually the laws in which gmerano is the best term for the forest. And this is a very ungrateful topic from the point of view of the public. It just triggers a reaction, I'd call it, goose bumps among the public when you try to rumble around the woods. Saying that you're gonna forest the same area in the area that's gonna be handed over to you by way of compensation... But he'll be a forest in 80 years. Now there will be a young man a few centimeters tall and not even a young man yet. Minister, this law, from the point of view of legitimacy, I have set an example for you, so please respond to this. It doesn't add up at all. From the point of view that, as I say, it concerns the Forests, a highly socially sensitive subject... And from a methodological point of view, it's already under a line. As far as one can understand that specializations are being introduced for the whole area of Poland, concerning the construction of road roads, railway issues, rivers, etc... Yeah, that's understandable to me. Introducing a specialty for one investment, e.g. It's understandable to me, too. Why? Because there's only one. But there are many, really very many investment areas in Poland. I showed you some examples. This is a bill that will cause bad blood, so to speak. And among the parliamentarians, and probably among those who will be in contact with you. The effect will be that you may achieve goals, some lobby group will achieve its goal, but it will definitely be remembered as power. And then in the districts, sir, in which we run, single-mandate, especially those swinging, not where the support for the PiS is 80%. because there the PiS candidate will pass, and not where the support for the Platform is 80% because that's where the Platform candidate will go, i.e. in districts where support changes and the difference is 5 or 10% It's very important, we're just gonna be swept away. And my district is one of those. Why are you making mistakes that just disorganize my possible campaign or any other one in the swinging circle? It's a summary question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u305	That was a question, Mr. Senator, which certainly exceeded a minute, but certainly was a question. However, I do not know whether it relates substantively to the content of this law. I am now giving the floor to the Minister to answer this question. The discussion you raised, Mr. Senator, is certainly interesting to us as well, representatives of another option. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u306	I don't think we're discussing whether this bill is gonna deprive anyone of an election opportunity or not. At the last meeting of the committee, I quoted this example that if I were to personally decide where this investment was to be made, I would probably decide that it would be somewhere near Babia Góra, which is in my territory. Then I'd say, really, really great chance of re-election. As to the doubt and the senator's question, I would like to say that we have areas where unemployment is even greater. Mr. Senator, there are such districts. And yet there, this investment will not be able to be created. Why? For the various reasons I have said here, related to accessibility and infrastructure, and to the needs of the region, and with some specifics that I find difficult to explain here today in the context of the process of this law, because we would have to devote a lot of time to it. This would be a multifaceted discussion about where to invest, how to invest, whether a choice is justified or not, why, etc. I represent the government on the legislative side of this law and I am unable to answer some of the questions because it requires a really deep analysis. Nor would I want us to mislead the public by throwing out opinions that somebody will refer to later, because there will indeed be a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in this discussion that is taking place here, we talk a lot about planting trees. The State Forests on the special iconography they have prepared say that 800 million seedlings are produced each year, of which, on average, as the Minister emphasized, 500 million are planted. Estimates indicate that an average of 1,000 trees are planted per minute, and seedlings are not only sent to foresight, but also to municipalities or private entities that have allocated their lands to forestation. From the perspective of my region, I can only thank the State Forests for all these organized planting actions, which are also attended by young people, and I represent the south of Lower Silesia here. But I have a technical question about this bill. Because the Minister, when he presented the principles of this law, said that when it comes to land exchange, it would be a forest exchange for the forest. Such a technical question: will the land to be converted have to have the same size, or will there be any deviation from these standards? What's it gonna look like? What's the procedure on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u309	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u310	On the basis of this bill, we're talking about a 1:1 swap, a meter a meter. And specifically, on the example of Jaworzna, I can say that as we studied the possibilities of this swap, we know that swapping with the city of Jaworzno is really going to be a forest swap for the forest, and it is a forest that is in good condition, which adheres directly to urban areas, so it would be difficult to imagine that there is an investment there. These forests will simply become natural forests that will serve the inhabitants who will be the lungs of the city. And these forests will be preserved. And when it comes to forests or land in Jaworzno, which is de facto forest land, and for a good cause not quite forest, as I say, these are demoted areas. There's a rehearsal. planting a forest, but someone who knows this area knows well that it is difficult to say that in this area we are actually dealing with a beautiful forest. Today, it's more like ten-metre-long pine trees trying to cope in difficult terrain.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u311	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister. I have the following question. Now, as we know, this type of investment can be carried out today on the basis of current legislation. But tell me how much money would have affected the forestation fund if this law had not been in place and these investments would have been carried out and how much would have affected the forestation fund. And whether anything will affect the law at all when it comes into force. Because this is, in my opinion, a fundamental question in the case of this law, because the point is that the High House should be aware of it. So I repeat my question: how much money would affect the forestation fund if these investments were implemented under current legislation, and how much would it affect the forestation fund if we adopt this law in the form that the government proposes it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u313	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u314	As regards the Forest Fund or the value of the land, this is not the subject of this law and it is difficult to answer this question at the moment. In order to answer this question precisely, a valuation must take place before conversion. Today, speaking about any numbers is simply not allowed, and it would only be, so to speak, unnecessary throwing stones into the backyard of the opponents of this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u315	Thank you very much. Please, the senator has an extra question, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'll admit I'm a little surprised because I'd expect some analysis to be made in this area. Well, since a law is proposed which has specific effects, including for the State Forests company, it would probably be appropriate to present at least estimated data and calculations in this respect. If we are talking about 1 000 200 hectares of forests, taking the price of about 300 thousand PLN per hectare... [[Room voice: Plus 300 in installments.]] ...plus 300 in installments, well, that shows us a certain scale of resources that don't... It's not 1 million or 2 million, we're talking about really serious amounts. And, from this point of view, I believe that the High House should be fully aware of the effects of this legislation only in this respect at the time of the vote on this law. I'm already skipping the social, environmental, etc., because this is a separate issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u317	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u318	I know what you're talking about. Mr. Senator talks about a situation like this when the conversion takes place on the basis of an existing law, an art. 38e, when such calculations are made. But at this point, there's no such calculations, and no one's done them because if we did that calculation today... I don't know if any of the experts would have taken it at all, because the expert always asks, what's to be done in this area? And then, in fact... Because the expert must also include the use of land in the spatial planning plan. And we have a completely different situation. Therefore, among others. there is this bill proposal to make it a one-for-one swap, not on an equivalent basis, which today is registered in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u319	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u320	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. The first question is: does the current Forest Act allow the deforestation of forest land due to the important interest of the state? And second question. You're using such an argument here, because it's an exchange. land between public entities, there is no privatisation here. Do you sin by naivety or do you not know if you're being driven by the staff of the Ministry? Because this is often the case because the lobby, which is interested in these land in large cities, is very strong. You are probably well aware that if this land is in State Forest resources, it is better protected by law, but also by procedures that have been in force in State Forests since Konrad Tomaszewski's reform for AWS. I think you were an envoy at the time. Isn't it? Minister, when they are owned by another entity, the further trading of these land will be facilitated, because here they will not be as protected as they are protected in the State Forests. And one more thing, Minister. Here I would refer to Senator Rotnicka's statement on foreign capital. I remember how at the beginning of this century the Japanese wanted to invest in Toruń, but the Buzek Act was in force to protect high-end agricultural land. It was so... And they wouldn't accept it without buying it. And then you can't. I was selling it. And I have to tell you, for the first time in my life, I worked with the Left. Because we had a marshal from the Left. And I came, well, with full commitment I came to Prime Minister Marcinkiewicz as well as his adjutants, and then it was possible to repeal this regulation, Buzek's regulation. But that decision had to be made by the Prime Minister of the Government. So that really does exist, and that's confirmed and verified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u321	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u322	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, if we're talking directly about deforestation of land, that's... that's the kind of idea or policy there isn't. There's no such thing as deforestation. Of course, it is done when the local government e.g. asks for a change in land use, a change in the local land development plan, for example. He's building, I don't know, some kind of transmission line or building a communication line... That's when it really is. But only in connection with the zoning plan. And deforestation as such is simply, well, impossible under the current law on forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u323	Thank you, Minister. [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u324	Minister, after yesterday's committee meeting because I think it would have to be helped here by Stalowa Wola, because the argument was very convincing, I worked hard to check it out in the foresters' environment. And it was the foresters, experienced foresters, who used this law, who pointed out to me that this possibility exists in the present law. And that would confirm what the senator said. [[Voice from the room: But what did he say?]] That the present law allows this possibility because of the important interest of the state, well, reaching for this land and... I don't know what it's called, deforestation or... [[Voice from the room: Replace the ground.]] Land change. The land change is functioning... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: In the current law, this provision, Mr Senator, states exactly that yes, but if a given land meets the needs of forest management. So we're going to reverse the situation completely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u325	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator, you may ask another question, because this point has not yet been closed. But if the Minister considers that he has completed his statement... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: I'm done.]] ...there's nothing left for me to say but that there's no more... For now, at least none of your senators have volunteered to ask further questions. In that case, thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The last few years have shown how much the government has in common with its citizens. This relationship is very nicely defined by the relations of the current rulers with the courts, the prosecutor's office, the Constitutional Tribunal, and today also by local authorities. We see what's happening in the so-called. public television. You're going to ask why I'm talking about how this has to do with the bill we're working on right now. Yeah, he's got a major connection. I remember the year 2018, I remember the winter February day, I remember the moment when the Pomeranian voivode made a decision with the immediate feasibility of cutting the woods in the Vistula mine. One day the action begins, pre-prepared. I would like to remind you that this decision was an illegal decision against the applicable law. 10,000 trees in Natura 2000 have been cut out. 25 ha of forest has been cut out. Why was this done? This was done because someone has an idea, a political idea, this political idea is called a dig in the Vistula Mill. I will never call the excavation of the Land of Vistula an investment, because this is only the implementation of one man's plan. This task is also carried out with the hands of the Forest Service. The Forest Service was incorporated into politics, into ideology. The foresters doing their hard work in my opinion were thus humiliated. They were watching 25 hectares of woods cut out. The police were standing there, drones were flying, and in a few days a massacre was made in the Vistula Land. Let me just remind you that this massacre at the outset was going to cost 800 million PLN. It is a pity that Minister Gróbaryczyk left... today the cost of what is happening on the scale is estimated at PLN 2 billion 200 million. I mean, it's scary, all you can do is cry about it. Today, the situation is that the implementation of this wicked plan has nothing to do with defence or the economic element. You've done this feat. I'll add another piece of information. The manager of the voivodship road and bridge facilities came to the director of the State Forests in Gdansk to obtain financial support for the renovation of the voivodship road, which was destroyed, including other objects, in connection with the transport of forest material. And you know what he heard? That if he comes up with such a request again, he'll be threatened by the Court of State. And do you know who is the director of the State Forests in Gdansk? Mr. Obajtek, don't confuse President Obajtek. And that's the effect of politics entering the woods. One of the governing parties is beautifully organized in this forest, building a new home. This is the result of the fact that the party activists are destroying the foresters' achievements, destroying the work that was actually our glory and pride, the work that citizens enjoyed. I'm talking to you in a lot of emotion because I can't accept it. How else to describe later facts? What? Or, for example, that someone decided to build a chapel in Niepołomica Forest, that someone then decided to build a monument to the former Minister of Environmental Protection, who prepared the most liberal law concerning the clipping of trees. The foresters are helpless, they don't know what to say. Ba, there was a statue with the bust of the former Minister of Environmental Protection. The mean say gold, but modest. Someone else will say that it is given to people who have the merits of protecting the environment and the forests. It's granted by a chapter that no one knows. But I'll get back to the forest. Why do some say that 2,000 m3 of wood was cut illegally? Why can't we, as citizens, complain about the plan of the forest facility? Minister, no one will believe the good intentions of the creators of this bill. No one will believe it, the voices in this discussion have clearly shown it. Stand down from this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u327	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the debate by Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland for several years we have been dealing with an extremely harmful phenomenon, which ecologists call the robbery forest economy. While expert estimates indicate that nearly 4 million ha of European forests are destroyed by farm animals, insects, diseases, fires and other processes associated with human activity, in Poland there are additional large scale cuttings of trees, also in protected areas. Scientists are alert to the fact that degradation and loss of the stand threaten the survival of many species of flora and fauna, while reducing the ability of forests to maintain such vital environmental components as clean air, water, healthy soil and natural climate regulation. Forests also play a key role in adapting to climate change. They act as a safety buffer for crops during violent weather phenomena, reduce the risk of natural disasters, help regulate the microclimate. Improving the state of forest ecosystems and introducing sustainable management practices today is a prerequisite for reducing the effects of climate warming. Already 5 years ago, attention was paid in Europe to the unlawful cutting by Poland of trees in the Białowieża Forest, which is an area subject to strict protection. Fortunately, then the European Court of Justice found such actions of Poland in an area incorporated into the UNESCO world heritage to be contrary to European Union law. It was then ordered to cease the logging immediately under the threat of high financial penalties, and for failing to comply with the judgment, the European Commission sued Poland in 2017, arguing that the forest, which is distinguished by its unique ecosystem, is consistently destroyed, and that it is only for the purpose of obtaining wood, the price of which in the world markets is gradually increasing. Finally, the Community institutions saved the Polish forest. However, the problem is coming back today, in connection with the Law on special solutions related to the special use of forest land. This law raises our legitimate objection and creates a dangerous precedent. A serious threat is the lack of any guarantee to avoid irreversible environmental losses. This means in practice that the proposed changes are not compatible with the objectives and principles of sustainable and environmentally sound forest management. What is most dangerous is what we have repeatedly pointed out here and what environmentalists and climatologists pay attention to, is the fact that this law is intended to establish a section of more than 1 thousand 300 hectares of forest for investments, for the construction of a car factory in the vicinity of Stalowa Wola and Jaworzna. The absurdity of this idea, according to which the natural environment is destroyed in order to produce potentially environmentally friendly means of transport, makes this situation defy not only the idea of a green economy but also common sense. The government is looking for legal opportunities to continue the armed robbery of the forest. Moreover, this law is not a universal law, as we have discussed here. It does not create a level playing field for all cities and municipalities in Poland. There are other cities waiting, as we talked about, waiting for my city, Ostrów Wielkopolski, waiting for New Salt, waiting for Red Silesia. These are cities in which there is no need for logging, cuttings of the forest. Such a bill of our consent cannot be. That is why I will absolutely vote against this extremely harmful environmental law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u329	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u330	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! The bill we're debating today... Twice the approach to this law has been made. We remember. It was pretty loud in the media. That the first project, probably the same, was withdrawn a few weeks ago. And I have to tell you, that's when the foresters' environment was relieved. Now that this project has returned, we have already passed a law, and we're probably not going to take it back, even though we're going to vote against it. I would therefore appeal to you, Minister, also as a Member, to make at least a minimum of amendments that would protect the State Forests from the hell we faced in the 1990s. At that time, forest issues were not as orderly as they are now. Then the most valuable forests of the State Forests were given to private entities because they could have the same amount... That's exactly what the bill says. Then it was possible to exchange land between a public entity, as you say, and a private entity. And there was an attractive land, which was in the State Forests, to be exchanged for some private knees, forest areas, which had value many times smaller. I must tell you that these issues have been sorted out by the reform that I mentioned here during the exchange of views with the Minister, the reform introduced by the Director-General of the Gdansk Directorate of the Conrad Tomaszewski State Forests, or was he then a Minister or Vice Minister? The reform has put these issues in order. The land exchange looked so that the land to which the entrepreneur was interested, the State Forests deforested and sold in the public tender as investment land. I must tell you that there has always been pressure on the business environments of MEPs, on foresters to change these rules. At the time of the start of the Civil Platform's rule, this pressure was also on us. I then applied to the present senator Stanisław Gawłowski and told him that there are such phenomena that foresters are being stalked, sometimes with representatives of official authorities, and forced to exchange land and that the law is already under way. And indeed, Minister Gawłowski confirmed at the time that such a law was created and that there was great pressure from all regions of Poland, from Members, to introduce such a law. And it was not pleasant for me or for Minister Stanisław Gawłowski to oppose it. This was often associated with reports to the minutes on his colleagues, as well as with the enormous responsibility of Stanisław Gawłowski. Today, when you hang huge dogs on Mr. Stanisław Gawłowski, I want to say that I have wonderful memories from that period. We saved then... especially Stanisław Gawłowski then saved Polish forests from privatisation or from unfair exchange. Now that I'm talking to the foresters, I've been talking about this bill today. This environment draws my attention to the fact that you cannot leave such an open directory of entities. You spoke of this yesterday at the committee meeting, justifying this by the legislative process. Don't listen to your officials. I have met with lobbying directors from the Ministry of Environment many times. They had much more knowledge than ministers, e.g. from our ministers, and they were able to twist them around their own finger. And I know exactly what they'd look like, well, different lines if they didn't. And think about whether today, instead of voting against us, it wouldn't be better to get along in committee. 'Cause we're gonna report those amendments that the Legislative Bureau proposed. Key by Foresters 'Cause I've been explaining to them what amendments are being tabled. The first amendment concerning the amendment of the title, first note concerning the amendment of the title. The idea is to limit it to specific places, i.e. Stalowa Wola and Jaworzna, so that it is in the title of the Act. Because if this directory is open, then... They mentioned to me that today there is also pressure, not only private entities, mayors, mayors come to the foresters, to the directors of the State Forests with suggestions to change land, interesting land on lakes because they think that this is how tourism should develop, that they have the idea of developing the region and that they need it. And if there is such a breach, if this law is passed in the form in which it is, then there really will be many lawyers who will be able to justify that this exchange they are proposing is in line with that law. So let's close this bill like this, 'cause it's not gonna do us any good... I will convince my opposition colleagues that if these changes were to happen, we could vote in favour of this law, because it is better to have less evil than bigger, so that forest communities, foresters, too, would not be subjected to pressure from local government. And I believe that if this minimum is introduced, if we limit it to these 2 towns, that is, we agree with these basic amendments only proposed by the Legislative Bureau, but significant, we will be able to support this law. Minister, but also Mr President, I appeal to you to convince me, too. A parliament to adopt a bill with just such amendments, so... because this isn't about getting as many people locked up for corruption and so on. No. It is better to avoid these really harmful social phenomena that we faced in the 1990s before the reform of Konrad Tomaszewski. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u331	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! To be honest, Minister, I feel a little sorry for you because you're trying to defend something you can't defend, and I'm about to try to prove it. Every municipality, every local government in Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...everyone would like to have a flagship and would like to make investments. No one doubts that. Local governments are fighting for this kind of investment, and I don't blame anyone who wants to attract this kind of investment. Such a flagship is needed not only in cities, but also in voivodships. I represent Lubuskie voivodship. We don't have a flagship like that. And we'd be happy to use the government's help to help us put this investment into place. We'll even get an investment ourselves, which will be a flagship, but we'll also need government help to make sure I'll get to that in a minute. E.g. exempt from fees which are linked to, for example, the logging of the forest. I'll get to that in a minute. I am of the opinion that the Law on special solutions related to the special purpose of forest land, commonly referred to as lex Izera, is a legal bubble and should be rejected as such in its entirety. Even though the Minister here doesn't confirm it's supposed to be that Izera... I'd just like to say, Minister... Do you know what this is, what I'm showing you here? This is the prototype of Jizera. Made in New Salt, I don't know, four, five years ago, by dwarf manufacturers, supported by bricks. A photo was taken and this prototype was ordered to be ground. So the belief that an electric car will be built... And the question arises: is this Polish country supposed to produce electric cars? The Czechs have Skoda, the Germans have a Mercedes, and we want to compete with them. But I understand that it is not confirmed that there is going to be a Polish electric car produced. This is Senator Piecha who said, among other things, that the 1 000 200 ha cut is not actually a cut. I didn't want to look into your ranger's eyes anymore, how he reacted that a 1,000 200 ha cut wasn't a big problem. Minister, a section of 1 ha... sometimes local governments have huge problems to gain 1 ha of land, because next to it, for example. the factory is developing, the plant is built and new jobs are created there. The bill gives the possibility of converting forests, land and other properties of the State Treasury remaining on the Board of State Forests to other properties. I would like to point out that this possibility already exists today. As president of the city, I've traded with the State Forests many times... We sat down at the table... I enjoyed working with the State Forests very well. We sat at the table, negotiated and traded the woods for the woods. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why do you need this bill? Maybe there's an argument that when we talk about 1,000 200 ha, we need a bill? Once again, I would like to repeat clearly: today the law allows the local government to replace such plots with the State Forests. The bill provides an opportunity... I already told you that. Now, about the forest land... There is a lot of forest land in Poland. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the Lubuskie voivodship the forest is at 50%. Here, among others. The senator reporting the committee's work said that there are municipalities that aren't developing. I invite you to the Lubuskie Voivodeship. Indeed, there are municipalities that are overgrown in 85% And they don't have any prospects for development, none at all. So this is not an argument that we Stalowa Wola will allow ourselves to grow, but other municipalities or cities will die. And now my question. If this 1 000 200 ha is to be processed, and yet, let's say, in the bill... Minister, if we only want to raise 100 ha, will you help us, or not? Just for 100 ha? We in Lubuskie voivodship are currently working on an investor who wants to invest PLN 1 billion. It is about environmental technologies that I will not talk about details. This is an American investor, and I don't know if American capital is good or bad. And we have a big problem finding a plot that meets his expectations. We have, for example. I don't know if you're familiar with it, there was a Soviet military base, it's a post-airport area. There's 200 ha, but it's not enough. There's woods around here. Will you help us place an American investor there? And you're gonna help us cut out these woods? I'd really appreciate it. You say that this is related to organic production here are mentioned among others. defence, high technologies, processors, etc., but you also exchange the automotive state and the plastics industry. Is the plastics industry something that actually improves ecology and promotes cleaner air? You're welcome to New Salt. I will show you where dwarfs are produced, where all kinds of plastic products are produced. You're gonna smell it and you're gonna see what production it is. This is definitely not organic production. Minister, there was a password here. And as I was looking at your ranger, whether or not he's gonna talk. . concerning the losses that the State Treasury may incur. The Minister said there would be virtually no loss for the state. This, Lord... I don't know what to call you. Mr. Forestman... [[Deputy General.]] How? [[Deputy Director General.]] Deputy Director General, how much does it cost to cut down a forest that is in private resources or in self-government resources? [[Voice from the hall: They don't know.]] Because the Minister doesn't know. I'll give you a hint not to embarrass you: between 250 and 300 thousand is the first payment, and the others are spread over 10 years. Yes? So as a result, the cut-off of 1 ha of forest is about 500 thousand PLN. The first deposit of 250 thousand and the second payment of 250 or 300, depending on the forest. Yes or no? Mr. Forestman, yes or no? Yes or no? [[Deputy Director General of State Forests Krzysztof Janeczko: Yes.]] Yes. I know, because I've done it many times. So, Minister, if you say that the Treasury will not suffer any losses, because we do not even know who will be located there, then I explain to you and explain that this is about PLN 600 million. That's the kind of money you have to pay to cut out about 1 000 200 hectares of forest. Check it out. So saying that there will be no losses, is not true and is illegal. The Minister said: we want the economy to grow. Minister, it's what everyone wants. And the senator, and me. I come from a city where unemployment was 42%. We have post-industrial sites, but I'm not saying... It can be located in this location or in another location, e.g. in Silesia, where jobs will actually be closed. Unfortunately, this bill will lead to a conflict between the state and the senators, and the local government. Everyone's gonna ask why these two locations, not some other location. It's really unnecessary for anyone. Minister, next to my city of New Salt, in Zielona Góra, you are planning to cut 400 ha of forest. I'll say it again: 400 ha. Right now, Mr. President has a nickname for the lumberjack. The inhabitants cannot agree to this and protest against the cutting off of 400 hectares of forest. Notabene from these 400 hectares of forest will pay the giant racket I was talking about Approximately PLN 500 thousand per hectare. He cuts 400 ha, and the villagers rebel, so do I. Do you know what you could do? You can invest in the road, preferably with EU money to build a road. 10 minutes by car and you can find investment areas where you don't have to cut down forests. In this way, economic development can be ensured and the forest that we all need can be spared. And my question, at the end. We actually have a problem with economic development. Often it is the forest, the State Forests do not agree to the logging or enlargement of the forest. We also have a lot of agricultural problems. If an investor comes in and we want 2, 3 ha to gain, 2, 3 ha to place a really worthy investor there, who will give jobs and cause the municipalities to grow... We have a huge problem to land these 3, 4 or 5 ha or cut out the forest, or convert it into a forest. And here we're talking about a thousand 200 ha, and it's in some random locations where someone has a stronger, bigger breakthrough. Bottom line, I'm asking you a question, Minister. Can you help us cut out 100 hectares of forest in New Salt? You said that such investments were appropriate. I've got you. I'll take your word for 100 hectares of forest in the vicinity of New Salt... We'd be happy to turn our backs on that. And you're gonna do that by law? That, of course, is a rhetorical question. We've got demoted areas, we've got mines, we've got post-industrial sites. I will remind you once again that I come from the city where there was a famous press conference under the banner of Poland in ruins. There are dozens of acres of threads in the former factory... Investment with state aid can also be located there. There is no need to cut down forests, you can find investment areas, which are many in Poland. Let me repeat: we have an investor we're talking to... One billion zloty will be invested and the state will make money because it will sell land, and local governments will make money because there will be taxes. So I'm looking for help. I will repeat: this should not be done by law, and if it is to be a law, it is to apply to all areas throughout Poland, not to 2 selected locations, because it is unfair, unfair and creates confusion and conflicts between local governments and politicians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u333	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, by all means, need to correct a few things and explain. Well, I'm even glad that the Minister was so eager to speak and answer, because you've been very helpful, as far as my earlier justification is concerned, why this law should be rejected in its entirety. But first... Minister, when you were saying the wrong thing, did you use hundreds of hectares, thousands, millions of trees, new woods, or in this letter today? Or I'll ask you exactly when you lied. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: What are you asking?]] You wrote in this letter: I kindly inform you that the forest plan for the current year is 261 hectares and 81 acres. And then you said it wasn't true that it was thousands and so on. Minister, you can't do that. Either you lied here in that letter or you lied today. I don't care, but tell me when you lied because you once lied. Of course, you have deliberately misled the High House, all of us sitting here. You used such an argument that about a million trees a year from the seedlings... It's all true, it's just that these are the ambushes that result from the extraction of earlier wood, i.e. the cutting out of trees. In Poland in 2020 To be precise, I'll read it in your handwriting. 38.2 million m3 of wood was harvested. It was cut out, butchered, planted a new forest That's the millions of seedlings. But no new area has been acquired. But for this forest to be the same forest, it's gonna have to pass. It's someone in this room talking, I think it's the senator. A few dozen years. So, Minister, please don't mislead the High House. There really are people here who understand these processes and know what it's like. You mustn't do such things, and you mustn't do this for legal reasons. This is the first case. Second thing. I said quite consciously that this is a process that comes down to the privatisation of forests, that this is the beginning of the privatisation of forests. And you confirmed it. Because you said in your statement that we have investors, but you can't tell us what, etc., at first you said it was the Treasury, someone there, and then we have two foreign investors and we're not going to be against foreign investors. Of course in Poland we are not against foreign investors. Only you confirm that this land will go to privatisation. That's the privatisation of the forests, that's exactly what you said, Minister. Thank you very much for this, because I hope that this part of the room will consciously vote against this law. Mr. Senator, this can't be fixed because it's such a harmful project. You were actually right today about the fact that the law is now allowing for an exchange. I remember our conversations once, then I consciously blocked any exchanges, because I knew how many hochsztaplerisms around it all were happening. But if the government wants to make this kind of exchange today, it's just that you have to pay for it and it's the money that goes to the State Forests, it's the money that should be spent on new woodeds, on the whole forest economy. I ask: why do you want to deprive the Treasury of this kind of revenue? Why shouldn't these two private foreign investors pay this fee? What does that tell you? What kind of logic is that? What kind of dealers are behind this, what kind of business, whose business? Really, Minister, this bill is a disgrace to the government, to this idea. I don't want to take it out on this Jester, but it's as serious as a keel. There's no minister of the graveyard. He'll be here any minute. In other words, money was spent on a non-existent project, money was wasted on setting up a company. But to give one more amount to the government... building this plant according to the government is going to cost 5 billion zlotys. Of course, there's no money. Unless you print any more blanks. But 5 billion PLN is half of the annual expenditure on science in Poland, all over Poland, on all universities, etc. Then what are we talking about? Full of embarrassment, shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u335	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator, it's for you: I think it's better when we operate in the Senate with the words "Did you miss the truth?" [[Mr. Marshal, those are the words I wanted to use, but in order to truly broadcast...]] I understand. But I'd ask you to use different criteria. Senator Janusz Gromek speaks. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u336	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Actually, I wasn't supposed to speak, but there are people here who are very competent about Polish forests. And if I speak in the discussion, I try not to deviate from the subject, and it's like a law dedicated to the right areas. But here I see you in uniform and I said to myself, no, I won't let go, I have to say a few words like that from my heart. I try not to deviate from the subject, as I said, but it is a special moment to express what is happening in Polish forests. There are competitions where soul and heart are important: doctor, nurse, military, policeman. And there are people here in green uniforms. Most of them aren't the people who put on those uniforms for wages. They love the woods. But we civilians also love our Polish forests, natural wealth. And the last few years have been years, I'm sorry, fucking Polish forests without any thought. My dears, I have in my family people of the forest, in uniforms, and very many friends. Do you know how they cry about what is happening in the Polish forests? They're very concerned about what's going on and what it's going to look like in a few years. I understand that wood must be harvested for the Polish economy, for the development of our homeland. But these past few years, it's been such a debilitating forest area... Wherever I go, I see, especially in our Pomeranian Voivodeship, how hundreds of hectares of forests are cut off on the main roads. And I'm not saying this out of ignorance, but the foresters are telling me that, unfortunately, there's a very large piece of wood, especially wood, that goes to trade in the port of Krobrzeg. I see tirries bring powerful quantities of beautiful Polish wood, which is exported by ships to Sweden. To Sweden, which is rich in forests. Why could Romania and Hungary possibly make such a regulation by law, which refers to the fact that there will be no exports of wood from Polish forests... or Romanian or Hungarian directly for sale, only in the product? That's what I understand, because then the Poles would have made money in their companies. Ladies and gentlemen, come to your senses with these woods. And this example that we're discussing today, 1,200 ha, it's kind of a snap. It has already been said how many areas in Poland where there is no need to cut down forests, only a factory can be built for this million cars. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u337	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try briefly to draw the thread that Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz started, because as self-government people we have made a number of investments and we know what it means to make investments. And do you know why the investment process and the amount of money invested are falling in Poland? That's because that's how you make these investments. This is how investments are made in Third World countries. That's where they say there's going to be a factory. And the guy says, "I'm sorry, but there's a neighborhood... I think it was in the wanted, wanted. And the other one says, "We'll move." And you do the same. There's a forest here. We'll cut it out. You say he's the one... who's the one? One tree for one tree? I think it was mentioned here in the discussion, which is one for one. You have to have an idea, Minister, about how to make investments, what is the role of the state in investment. Certainly the role of the state is not to make Poland poor in terms of forestation, so that not one for one, that in 100 years will be one for one... And after all, one for one... Here in Poland there is a change, and nothing changes, we simply reduce deforestation. Therefore, the role of the state, Minister, is to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Secretary... ...so it doesn't happen on a lobbying basis that you state that there's gonna be a factory here and we're gonna cut out a thousand 200 ha of forest, just to do it according to a certain process. Why is this so necessary? Among other things. The point is to start with the most important thing. And that's what happened in the discussion, Senator and Senator Czerwiński were talking about it, and I'm signing off on it. In Poland, in order to establish where and what factory will be, we need to start an analysis of the whole country. You cannot divide us into local government senators and residents of Poland. You have to establish as a government certain laws that apply to the whole country, not decide how Bokassa: I like you, then you'll have the money from the budget, and I don't like you, so you won't have the money from the budget. That is why investors are wondering and not investing in Poland, which is why there is a decrease in the level of investment. Why? Because the unstable law you're making can be changed overnight. The allocation of such concessions on the basis of lobbying, and not criteria, or other elements that I will no longer talk about, causes that there is no certainty of investment in Poland. And now this environmental thread that was moved. Well, one thousand 200 ha of cut-off forest and one small tree for one 80-year-old tree. That's one for one? But someone else read that it's where you can make plastics. It's ecological, I understand. So we cut out the woods, we fight people, we fight local governments, we do it on a lobbying basis, and we still make plastics there? Beautiful, a better way of developing the Republic cannot be imagined. And you are surprised that in Poland the level of investment is falling? And now I'm gonna tell you how it's supposed to be done. I come from a town called Kwidzyn. Since the 1990s we have one of the highest investment rates in Poland. This is a small town, but we've always tried to do It's not lobbying, it's offering things that are environmentally friendly. That's one thing. Secondly, we offered the things the investor expects. And he never expected, Minister, to cut out trees to make woods. After all, there are so many areas in Poland, after all there were various examples given by Senator Czerwiński, Senator Tobiszowska and others. After all, in Poland there are thousands of hectares of land that are ideal for this. The government should create the same criteria according to which an investor is chosen, define state aid in this area, remove official barriers and seek out the best places, and even involve local communities, so that people themselves stand up to this beauty pageant and show where it would be best to run this factory. But you guys don't do that. Is there a government that's gonna tell you? You say, "This is where the factory will be." But there's a forest out there. We'll cut it out or we'll move it! And this is something that should never, in any field, be done, especially in matters concerning the development strategy of the Polish state. It should be banned and branded. The Polish state and the government are to create the right to choose an investor and development strategy. And who else is gonna take care of the choice? That's what the minister, Senator Gawłowski, was talking about. Well, it was lobbying. I'm guessing how many people have been after these cities or these districts to be chosen. Well, we know what it looks like. I suspect how it happened. Whoever had access to the ear was written in it. And that is why I ask you, Minister, to think about how investment should take place in Poland. I believe that the Senate will reject this bad bill, which shows what we shouldn't do. Because she has only one advantage, Minister. Based on what you do with this investment, management students should be taught at Polish universities, which should not be done when it comes to investment. That's the only advantage of what you're doing. The rest are the same negatives, from disarraying local governments to choosing a place, the issue of ecology, etc., etc. That is why I believe that the Polish Senate will reject it, that there will also be people in the Sejm who will understand that it is not so important to take care of the development of investments, ecology and the future of Poland. Thank you very much. [[And what ear was that?]] Please? [[The CEO's ear?]] I don't know what it is, but in some ear, Mr. Marshal, they were whispering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u339	Thank you, Senator. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? I address the Minister of Sulphur. And, of course, I also address Deputy Director of State Forests, Mr Krzysztof Janeczek. If you want to take a stand on this, I'll give it to you. Minister, if you wish to comment on these proposals, I would like to invite you to the stand. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Ladies and gentlemen...]] I'd like to invite you to the stand, Minister. It's better if we're facing each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm gonna start by saying the question that Senator Man asked. I've got a feeling. I think so in the context of the discussion that you had here. That not all of them have read this law meticulously. Namely, if we are talking about the title of the Act and about it, it is necessary to mention the places in which this investment process is foreseen, about which there are so many words here today... Please note that in the article. In paragraph 1, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Point 1 2 We have clearly written: "The real estate referred to in paragraph 2. 1 are set out in the Annex to the Act. These are all the properties that are listed. It is 51 positions, property in Jaworzno as well as in Stalowa Wola. And only those plots that are listed here. In Jaworzno 25, in Stalowa Wola 55, they are the subject of this exchange. And any other guesses that fell from that bleacher make no sense. It is simply that no other land will be replaced. There is, of course, a record that the forests and other properties of the Treasury of the neighbouring State may be swapped, but then it will be done by the governor, not by the minister or the director of the State Forests, if it had happened that such a need had occurred during the investment process, for example. you have to make an access route, or, let's say, some kind of transmission network that is not foreseen at this point in the investment process. But these plots are all listed. They're deliberately mentioned here. And this discussion in the Seym, which was also a difficult discussion, led to the fact that we are now exchanging these parcels so that there is no charge, which often appeared in the statements of Senator Gawłowski, that this is some concern that we want to privatise forest land. Nothing like that. Just these plots are listed from the number, from the eternal book, checked. And we know what the land is, we know that it's the land of the State Forests in these two towns. I can tell you so much, Senator Matecka... yes? If you're saying that we have such a large loss of forest because of forest management, how does it happen that we still have an increase in forest space? And what's more, we're getting more wood mass. And all the studies, whether we reach national or European, all confirm it. Effectively, we have been increasing the area of forests for years. And first of all, we increase the amount of wood mass that is collected per hectare. Poland is one of the leading After Germany, countries in Europe can boast the largest number of trees in the cubic meter. And I stress, this is due to foresters, who have for years, even though there are still some errors in this economy, this is what the wood mass is expanding. This obviously has nothing to do with the discussion of the bill, but you're still saying that there's something bad going on here. I stress: we, of course, produce between 38 and 40 million m3 trees for our industry. This is one of the powerful industries, if we are talking about wood production, one of the most powerful industries, which produces almost 3% in Poland. GDP. Half a million people work in this business. As far as exports are concerned, the woodworking industry is 15%. our exports, and that's the flagship we're proud of, the furniture industry. We have the greatest achievements here. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be surprised that we are an area of really very much jealousy, precisely as regards this element. Because if we are to boast about something, it is precisely that in furniture exports we pierce many European countries, which are very eager to enter this market. No problem, no problem. They'll even help us to leave so we can give up this market. [[Voice from the hall: But we're talking about the woods, about...]] But we're talking, Senator, we're just... [[Senator, I didn't give you the floor.]] But we are talking about the forest, about the tree, we are talking about an organic and renewable product, which is renewable, among others. For furniture. [[Minister, don't argue with the O.R.]] But I'll do my best, Mr. Marshal... [[Only what you have to say...]] That's by the way. Senator Tyszkiewicz brought up an important matter, the deforestation case. Well, Mr. Senator, we'll stick to that, because it's an effective way to discourage people from deforesting, effective. [[In this case?]] Everyone, every single one. And please bear in mind that we will not give up on this, because we know today, after many years of our experience, and the State Forests, and the Ministerial Forests, that if we gave up on this, we would have had reports actually from all local governments that would want to deforest any amount of land. But you can't do that because it really costs a lot. That's it. [[It's just the beginning...]] So much for the subject. Are we cutting more in recent years? No. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this over the years, it turns out it's the same amount. We have a slight jump in 2018, but it's related to the windstorms, to the defeat that took place in the Tuchols Boras, nothing more. It's the same amount, the same amount of tree you're getting, it's actually a straight line, there's no growth here. It is not possible to conduct a tree extraction policy other than on the basis of plans of a forest device, which for all 429 foresights in Poland are plans made in a ten-year perspective. And at the beginning, when this document is signed by the Minister of Climate Affairs I've been doing this for a year. We plan the whole range of plantings, cares, clippings, tree harvesting, all for 10 years. It is spread over time, so that no area, whether in the east or in the south or in the centre of Poland, is affected by the fact that there is some thoughtless policy of acquiring wood raw materials. And I agree with the senator who said that we should create a level playing field for the development of the whole country. Yeah, that's what we create, even when we build roads. When I go, say, to the sea, and I see a road that runs through the forest, and often so, I feel a little sorry for it, but these roads must be built. We do it with full awareness that it is done in some way also at the expense of nature. True, this is also at the expense of nature. We build infrastructure, we build networks, but we decided to do it, that's the needs of the state, that's the investment, that's the need for communication. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u341	Thank you, Minister. For the record, Senators Alicja Chybicka, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Jolanta Hibner, Ewa Gawęda, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Janusz Gromek, Beata Małecka-Libera, Stanisław Lamczyk, Władysław Komarnicki, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Adam Szejnfeld have made their speeches to the minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's bothering me there? [[Voice from the room: Antoni...]] [[I...]] Then don't bother me now. You'll be able to talk to me in a minute. I would also like to inform you that you have just submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Antoni Mężydło. The discussion is closed. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, or 3 committees, to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 451, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 451 A and 451 B. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to present the report of the Environment Committee and then the report of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the committees I am a member of, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, a report on the work on the Law amending the Law on Water Law; Senate Print No 451. The Water Law Act was adopted by the Sejm at its thirty-fourth meeting on 8 July. It came from the Parliamentary submission and was discussed by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, which, as a purpose of the amendment of the Act, stated the clarification of the formal requirements... Excuse me, I'm confused. ... The formal requirements to be met by applicants for water law permits for the introduction of industrial waste water waste water into sewage systems, I stress: industrial waste water containing substances harmful to the aquatic environment. The amendment to the Law of 20 July 2017 "Water Law' refers in principle to a single article, namely Article. Paragraph 407. 5. Its current wording was as follows: to the application for a water law licence for the introduction into sewage systems of industrial waste water containing substances particularly harmful to the aquatic environment, as laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1, the consent of the owner of these devices shall be attached. That's what happened in the past law. The amendment proposes that an application for a water law licence for the introduction into sewage systems of industrial waste water containing substances particularly harmful to the aquatic environment may be accompanied, instead of the consent of the owner of the equipment, by an agreement covering the obligation to receive these waste water with the owner of the equipment. Here I stress that such a contract is a civil law agreement, and it is different, so to speak, the value and importance of water law. The new provision shall be the following: to the application for a water lawn permit for the introduction into sewage systems of industrial waste water containing substances which are particularly harmful to the aquatic environment, as laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1, the consent of the owner of those facilities shall be attached, or an agreement in force at the date of submission of the application including an obligation to receive those waste water concluded with the owner of those facilities. Thus, in the novel, the legislator assumes that the condition of consent is met when waste water is collected under a civil law contract. And we know that a civil law agreement has to be... is valid if every four years an entity requests permission through water law. Since the main recipient of waste water and the recipient of this novel is a water and sewerage company, the Senate committees have read the position of the Chamber of Commerce of the Polish Waterworks. The position of this Chamber shall be critical of the proposed amendment. Izba Gospodarcza (Izba Gospodarcza) And I agree with that. That consent is the only effective means of defending the water and sewage business from the reception of industrial waste water which, when combined with municipal waste water, will not achieve the parameters required by law after the treatment process, which may result in a disruption of biological processes in the oxygen parts of the treatment plant and thus prevent the treatment of waste water, which may result in significant pollution of the environment. After all, we are primarily concerned with water being drained from waste water, which remains still waste water, so that it is safe not to cause a threat to the life and health of the population, and, say, the whole organic world. The water and sewage company does not agree only in cases where it is unable to bring industrial waste water to the parametric state required by law. The quintessence of such a situation is that the sewage introduced by this water and sewage company into water or into the soil at the so-called. the outlet does not meet the standards for waste water and is therefore not safe for the environment. It should be stressed that, in fact, the law that speaks of the quality of waste water is based on the relevant directives, European Union law. In the explanatory memorandum, the government stated that local authorities actually applied for the novelty of this water law, claiming that water and sewage companies almost maliciously refused to accept waste water received. What can I add to that? The discussion took place both at the meeting of the Environment Committee and at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Several senators took part in the discussion, and you can see it in the minutes. The difference between the consent and the civil law agreement concluded between the undertaking and the waste water discharger was also underlined. It was therefore proposed, at one and the other committee meeting, an amendment which is clearly intended to specify when a water supply company cannot refuse to accept waste water, in other words, I will put it in order to say, in accordance with the principle: coffee on the bench The conditions that this discharger must actually fulfil. Therefore, point 5a of Article 5a is added to this amendment. 1st Bill... Excuse me, in the article. 407 after the mouth. paragraph 5 is added. 5a, which reads as follows: "The owner of the plumbing equipment to which the industrial waste water referred to in paragraph 1 is to be introduced. 5, must give the consent referred to in that provision if, first, the waste water introduced into its equipment meets the requirements arising either from separate provisions or from an agreement concluded between it and the applicant So that's a condition: they meet the requirements. Second, there are technical possibilities to adopt these waste water; thirdly, there will be no breach of the conditions for the discharge of waste water introduced by these facilities into the waters or to the ground resulting from the water law permit granted to the owner of those facilities. At the meeting of the Environment Committee as a result of the vote, this amendment was accepted, although not unanimously, because the result of the vote was probably: 12 votes in favour, 0 against, 3 senators abstained. At the meeting of the Committee on Climate Welds, it was also voted out and adopted unanimously: 16 votes in favour. The Commission requests the adoption of this law with this one amendment. I ask the Senate to accept this report and this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u343	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator related to this point. Senator Alexander Swed reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'd like to ask you something. In the novel, as the senator stressed, it was proposed that the application for the authorisation of the introduction of industrial sewage containing substances particularly harmful to the aquatic environment should be accompanied, instead of the consent of the owner of the equipment, by a contract. That's what the novel says. But I would like to ask if any statistics were presented in the Committee on the Environment or the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on how many such approvals were issued each year. [[How much what?]] How many such consents were given? Were there any statistics?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u345	No, there was no talk about it. The Ministry didn't mention it either. Only the introduction of this amendment was justified by the fact that it is possible or quite common to refuse to accept waste water or the introduction of waste water is not authorised and would like it to be merely a contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u346	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you, ma'am. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Bartosz Kownacki was authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? Your envoy isn't here. I see. I don't really know why... After all, we have therefore amended the rules which allow Members to present these laws. [[That's the practice of the last...]] This is another absence in the situation of the parliamentary bill. In that case, would a government representative like to speak? I'm addressing Minister Mark Grabarczyk. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Mr. Marshal, yes, if I may. Just from the podium or from here?]] From the podium, come here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The amendment is, above all, a proper implementation of... [[Minister, a little louder, I'd like to ask.]] ...is of an explanatory nature to the law, and the Ministry of Infrastructure therefore supports this amendment. For formal reasons, he cannot accept the Senate amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u348	Minister, just a moment, maybe there's a question for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Alexander Swed, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u349	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, about what you said... I understand that the government agrees with the novel, only this amendment is negative. But I would like to ask you what I asked you earlier, Senator rapporteur, if, of course, the Minister has this knowledge, and if not, I will possibly ask for a written reply. How many such consents were given? Do you have such statistics? How many, e.g. So, what, a year like this was okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u350	Now I can't tell you that. [[If I may, please respond in writing.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u351	Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions... [[I just wanted to...]] Oh, excuse me, Minister... Senator Rotnicka would like to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u352	Minister, you're very economical in words, but perhaps you'd like to make it clear if you consider it the same agreement to drain the sewage and the sewage disposal contract. Because that's what the legislative dispute is about. It appears from the opinion of the legislator that this is not the same and that the matter cannot be settled because the civil law agreement can be signed for several years and the agreement must be updated every 4 years. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Once again, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u353	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u354	Senator, once again, this is a clarification. I listened to your words and once the senator spoke instead, once or twice. It's about the word "or" or "yes" or "contract." This is a simple simplification of the whole bureaucracy, and this is primarily aimed at clarifying formal legal issues. However, this has nothing to do with the quality of waste water, with its negative impact on the environment. As the senator pointed out, it is advisable, in §100, that waste water is examined, controlled and allowed into the sewers on the basis of completely separate paragraphs, which this amendment simply does not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u355	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions... [[There it is, there it is. The question is...]] Who? [[Jolanta Hibner.]] Well, I'm sorry, so please... Excuse me again, sir. Senator Hibner is asking a question. [[Remotely.]] Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u356	Thank you very much. Minister, it is the right of the owner to decide how it uses its equipment, how the water and sewage company operates the company, how it conducts the entire process of waste water treatment. Here we have given the parameters of sewage, which are definitely different from the parameters of municipal waste water. A water law permit means that certain preliminary conditions are met. All water and sewage equipment owners and operators must adapt to these conditions. Why do you deprive the owner of... Why won't he be able to give permission? We can assume that the contract was signed by one owner, but the owner of these devices has changed, and this one will no longer have the right to decide. Yet, in the meantime, this industrial waste water has become much more polluted. Why do we deprive him of this right? After all, the owner's consent is also his responsibility for how this process is conducted and what will happen at the end of this process. And one more thing: who will pay the penalty if it turns out that the waste water that has been introduced under a previously written contract does not meet the parameters? Who will be punished if the waste water is brought into the tank and will not meet the conditions that were previously fulfilled at the time of the decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u357	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u358	I'll say it again. Mr. Marshal, Senator, this has no impact on the quality of the sewage, completely different paragraphs rule here. With regard to the issue of admission, it is precisely that everyone should be able to access the sewage network on the basis of the parameters of the sewage system. At each stage, this agreement or consent may be terminated if the waste water does not meet the environmental parameters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u359	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Alexander Swede. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try very briefly, some of the things I have here, I'll skip. The amendment proposed by the Group of Members, supported by the Government, must be assessed very critically. In legal transactions, contracts with the owner of the sewage system are usually concluded for a limited period of time. Therefore, it is possible to adjust the indicators of pollution in industrial waste water in order to achieve the overarching objective of protecting the environment every 4 years at the water authorisation stage. I will allow myself here to present my thoughts, because after the Minister's statement, Or rather, after the Minister's failure to speak, it is even more justified than I thought. It seems unimaginable today that anyone, and even more so parliamentarians or ministers of the Polish government, should not know the basic principles of environmental protection, i.e. that the polluter pays and the principles of environmental protection over economic activity. I thought that the times in which the burning chimneys of factories, steelworks, cement plants, etc. were placed on the banknotes of the National Bank of Poland, symbolizing the development of the country, had long passed. However, it turns out that this is not necessarily the case. It is not possible to deprive water and sewage undertakings of the impact on who and under what conditions or with which objections industrial waste water will be received. However, in the Sejm, the Ministry of Infrastructure tried twice at two meetings of the committee to propose an amendment that deprived them of such influence. Luckily, it was withdrawn. But these trials alone show worrying efforts to turn upside down the law governing water law and water and sewage management. In addition, it must be noted that not all water and sewage companies manage municipal waste water treatment plants at the same time. It is often the case that PWiK must also sign contracts with the sewage treatment plant This is the case in Kalisz. For collection and treatment, and for the collection of waste water with appropriate parameters. What will happen if the water and sewage company loses influence on the quality of waste water delivered to the treatment plant? It's them, businesses, who will pay the penalty for bringing waste water to the treatment plant, sewage that they don't have an influence on, because they're going to be introduced by an industrial plant. This law should be rejected in its entirety, but after an analysis of the objective pursued by the project promoters As far as they really were concerned, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and I tabled an amendment proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks. This amendment is presented here, and I will no longer explain it. I hope that the amendment will be accepted. I don't understand the Minister's translation at all, because that translation wasn't here at all, and as it was, at least I didn't understand what was going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u361	Thank you, Senator. I now ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If it had been like the Minister said, he would have had no problem agreeing to the amendments tabled by Senator Rotnicka and Senator Bladder, and for some reason... Maybe for the reasons that sounded in that one sentence, that everyone has to have access to the sewers and without restrictions, I understand... Maybe that's what's ambushing you. The Minister didn't say much, so it's hard to relate to what he said. Therefore, we must refer to the things that took place at committee meetings, to the document that was submitted, and to the discussion that took place in the Sejm. You've already talked about this discussion, Senator Bladder, so I won't raise it again. Speaking of Senate committees, I'd like to say, Minister, that your associate used such a hell of a comparison... Then I will remain in this convention that is close to you. Your associate, Minister... I'm sorry, I don't remember the name, my fault, I'm already fighting in my chest and I'm really sorry about that. Really, I should remember, but COVID maybe... well, Minister, good intentions of hell are paved. I'm going to stay in this convention, that's what's close to you. Because if you want to simplify it, make it easier, make it possible for every waste water to be taken into the treatment plant. You may not know this, but your associates should already know that... Municipal purifiers are mechanical and biological treatment plants. Very important in the process of purification, reduction of nitrogen, phosphorus, etc. There's a biological part, which is bacteria. If you allow industrial sewage to destroy bacteria there, you will de facto destroy the treatment plant's operation. That's what you're gonna do. Once again, this amendment will only ensure that the treatment plants actually operate without reservation. Otherwise, you'll lead to an ecological disaster. I say you'll lead, though I know this narrative. Then it's not a government, not a parliament, but a bad self-government that won't function, that biology will be destroyed by receiving industrial waste water that shouldn't go there because it doesn't meet certain parameters. Tonight's the thing... they should be clean-cleaners. Today is the case that every few years there is a verification. When there's a contract that's boundless, someone can change the production process, they can change the kind of waste water they're dumping, destroy the bacteria. I'm about to hear the words I heard at the committee hearing: he's gonna pay the damages. This isn't about compensation. The losses will be gigantic, rebuilding the bacterial flora on the treatment plant for months. In such a dimension, Minister... Mr. Marshal, the Minister's a little busy, he's here to meet his colleagues. [[Keep going.]] Minister, I ask you very much to accept the amendment proposed by you and the senator, because she is really going in the direction you want. It will facilitate the process of connecting to the waste water collection and treatment system, but will also ensure that the parameters that must be met by industrial waste water dumped into municipal sewers and then hit on treatment plants will have to be achieved. Since I'm at the voice and I've got a few more minutes... Minister, this is actually an important problem, but I don't think it's the most important thing in the water and sewage economy, even for sure. You are hosts of a document called the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Program. This programme sets targets for achieving the reduction of waste water discharge in Poland in agglomerations above 10 000 RLM. One of the directors a few months ago at the meeting of the Climate Commission said that in order to achieve the objective of the directive in Poland, one still needs to invest in the construction of a system of waste water treatment, i.e. sewage treatment and treatment plants, about PLN 24 billion. At the moment there is no real real, real support for municipalities in carrying out these tasks. The municipalities are left to themselves. In the process of imposing new tasks, such as education, on the municipalities, the mess that was caused by the creation of the so-called. The Polish Government, and the reduction of financial revenues to municipalities... These municipalities will not really be able to accomplish these tasks on their own. The activity, the activity of an institution subordinate to you, i.e. the Polish Waters, in the part concerning tariffs, is also imposed on all of this. If you block tariffs so restrictively, if you impose an obligation to reduce depreciation, you will not only lead to a situation where no new system will be created, sewage systems will not be created, treatment plants will not be modernised, but you will also lead to decapitalisation of assets. You're on a very good path to this right now. I'm saying it too... I could tell you what the tariff process is like here. Indeed, you have one success, Minister... Sorry to bother you, Mr. Director. I'm talking to the minister. Don't bother me. At the Ministry, you can do that, not in the Senate. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm sorry, but I'd like to... [[I understand, but I'm the one who's been paying attention. If the minister won't listen, that's his business.]] That's right. You're actually right, Mr. Marshal. I can disturb the Minister, you're right. Excuse me, Minister and Director. Talk all you want, basically. You don't have to be interested. For a good cause, you have expanded the administration in Polish Waters in a gigantic way. Here you have a huge success, credit. There were seven regional water management boards, and it's 11. Currently, there are directors, deputies and an extensive administration everywhere. There were 16 management boards of water equipment melioration, there are 50 several water catchment managements, etc., etc. Directors, deputies, cars, cars... Congratulations, it's a huge success. It is only a pity that in those cases that concern the water and sewage economy, you do not solve problems so ambitiously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u363	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Jolanta Hibner, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Gromek, Danuta Jazłowiecka and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the Rail Transport Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 474 and the report of the Commission In print No 474-A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Print No.474 contains a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act, and on 3 August, at the meeting of the Infrastructure Commission, we gave an opinion on this law. I would just like to remind you that it is implementing the European Parliament directive, and it actually contains two basic components. One concerns the introduction of uniform national driving tests, and the other component is the creation of a central driver register, which collects data on train drivers operating railway vehicles in one place. Maybe I'll just say one such remark. Namely the President of the Trade Union of Railway Engineers in Poland, Mr Leszek Mietek, as well as the senators discussed one possible amendment. She wasn't finally introduced. It was intended to include data on the working time of drivers and authorisation data for railway sections and railway vehicles in the national register of drivers and railway vehicles. But we know from the Minister that it is not possible to enter this register until there is a law on the working time of the drivers. We hope that such a law will come soon, so that there can also be data on working time and authorisation for sections of railway lines in this register. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution without amendments. Our positive opinion It was unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u365	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, in many of these proposed positive changes, there are changes when it comes to the exam. It consists of 2 parts of the. is to test theoretical knowledge and carry out practical driving. As far as practical driving is concerned, for the first time the simulator of the railway vehicle, including behaviour during unusual events and dangerous situations, is mentioned. I would like to ask you about the proposed changes if this simulator will be mandatory on exams. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u367	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u368	Senator, as I recall, she was. Because we also asked questions about conducting the training of candidates for drivers of such psychology classes. So if there are accidents or suicides... The idea is to immunize or train in a context of danger or distress. And indeed, as I recall, these lessons on the simulator will be mandatory, as the Minister said. He nods his head that yes, which means I remember well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u369	Thank you, Senator. Oh, Senator Bladder...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u370	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question... [[Please.]] ...to the senator. I asked this question to the President before he entered the room, but I will ask if it was discussed at the committee meeting. Because the bill, as you present here, was unanimously adopted by the committee. And I think it's a good bill. My question is this: how did it happen that this group of drivers was as if isolated and exams took place completely different from that of any other transport group?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u371	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u372	Mr. Senator, about the past of these exams, as I recall, we didn't really talk about how this was happening at the committee meeting. Nevertheless, I think this is a good solution. Just as driving exams are the same everywhere, just as here exams that will pass candidates for drivers will also be the same. But as for the way it's been in the past, if it's the senator's will, perhaps the minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u373	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator Rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Andrzej Bittel like to speak on the bill? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I briefly, because the Senator rapporteur perfectly presented the main principles of the bill. Two small notes. One: this law is not embedded in European law, it does not introduce a directive. And the second point, on the issue of authorisation, discussed as a potential amendment. It's in the register we talked about at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u375	Thank you. Maybe they'll ask you a question. Would you like to speak on the bill? [[President of Ignacy Góra Railway Transport Office: I may very briefly, Mr. Marshal, if I may.]] You're welcome, from the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u376	I would like to say that we are introducing these amendments to the Rail Transport Act primarily to improve the safety of the rail system. At the moment, it is true that the centre that trains carries out these exams, and we want the examination to be carried out by a state institution. We're just proposing that this be the president of the Railway Transport Office. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u377	Thank you, Mr. President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. But since the President has spoken, the questions may also be to the President. Are there any such questions? Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, then the question is to the Minister, possibly to the President, depending on who has that knowledge. I would like to ask how drivers from other Member States of the European Union are treated. If the driver has a licence issued by another Member State of the European Union, then if he is, of course, going somewhere in Poland, he will also have to apply for such a driver's certificate? I also ask this in the context of this directive, to which the new law refers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u379	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u380	Certainly, the authorisation of the route is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u381	Are there any other questions? Thank you very much... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Are you sure?]] ...Mr. Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Janusz Gromek submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Labour at Sea. The text of the Act is contained in print No 466 and the report of the Commission In print No 466 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, which at its meeting on 3 August, i.e. yesterday, decided to amend the Law on Maritime Labour adopted by the Sejm on 23 July 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this law is to implement into Polish law the amendments resulting from the 2018 amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, which were adopted by the Special Tripartite Committee on 27 April 2018 and subsequently approved by the International Labour Conference. Since, by the end of the deadline set for 26 June 2020, no more than 40 States Parties to the Convention have opposed, these amendments have become applicable law and should be implemented in accordance with practice in national law. These amendments are intended to safeguard the rights of workers of seafarers in the event of an attack by pirates or armed assault on a ship and caused by the forced imprisonment of seafarers on or off the ship. They shall ensure the continuity of the Navy's employment contract during the imprisonment of a seafarer on or outside the ship as a result of piracy or armed assault on the ship, whether or not the period for which the contract was concluded has expired, whether the party has notified its suspension or termination. In general, during the process in the Seym, this regulation was not very controversial. All the Members present voted in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. Therefore, the joint committees will recommend that the High Senate adopt this law without amendments, in its original form. At the committee meeting in the presence of Minister Bittel, who... Well, the chief minister is here, but at the committee meeting was Minister Bittel and he answered the senators' questions. In fact, the only problem arose as part of the representatives of the union party. Namely in the article. 100 it is proposed to extend the catalogue of vessels covered by this Article. I know that the matter has been watched by the honorable Senator Kochan in the courtroom, and if the legislators consider it appropriate with her, she will make an amendment to this article. That was the conversation. In any event, at the end of the committee's work, the joint committees recommend the adoption of this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u383	Thank you, Senator. Are there any questions regarding this bill to the Senator of the rapporteur? You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this positive amendment includes, among others, a solution giving seafarers the right to apply for a pension for incapacity for work or partial incapacity for work. I would like to ask whether this was mentioned at the committee meeting and whether this amendment would possibly cause any additional costs on the part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u385	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This was not mentioned at the committee meeting, so that I propose that the question be redirected to the minister present here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u387	Thank you. There are no more questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration, Minister Marek Grabierczyk? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: No.]] But the senators present may ask you questions. Mr. Senator... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Mr. Marshal, of course.]] I'd ask you to come to the podium. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u388	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would just like to repeat the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. If, of course, the Minister has this knowledge, I ask for an answer now and if not, I will possibly ask for a written reply. I don't know if I should repeat that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u389	No. I know exactly that question. I can answer now, but we will also reply in writing. [[No. If you're able to answer now, then...]] This does not have any financial implications because the pension is granted on a general basis. You have to meet the right conditions to receive such a pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u390	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I do not know if this is because of anything other than my memory, but the rapporteur, Mr Majer, was kind to say that we adopted this law unanimously. That's not what happened. There were 8 votes in favour, 5 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voice from the room: The Sejm accepted...]] Ah, the Seym. I'm sorry. There was no such unanimity in the Senate, and it is not because the provisions of the Act are wrong, because they are really good and convenient for seafarers, they increase their workers' rights. We take care of those who have been kidnapped by pirates, the time of kidnapping is considered a working time, the ship owners were obliged to be repatriated free of charge, the sailors... In the words: neither trade unions nor shipowners have submitted any objections to the provisions implementing international law to Polish law, with one exception. Sailors, as you probably know, serve on vessels. It turns out that during the meeting of the Joint Committees, trade unions requested a group of sailors who work on technical ships such as tugboats, dredgers or all kinds of ships that will probably be sailing on our waters in a moment. The technology changes, we dream of wind farms on the Baltic Sea, there will be supplies for these farms, readings, etc. And they will be made by those who will come to these farms across the sea. Those employed pay the food tax they consume while serving at sea. We've decided... I am convinced that the Ministry will share our view and agree to an amendment that extends the powers of all those who sail on ships to those who sail on the so-called. technical units. And that's what this amendment is about. They've made up their minds about it. I'll remind you one more time. Trade unionists who represent seafarers and officers and NSZZ.Solidarity. We have prepared an amendment with the help of the Legislative Bureau, for which I thank you very much. I am making this amendment to the hands of the marshal, while asking that this bill be considered at this Senate meeting. I ask you to convene an additional meeting of the joint committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u392	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I'll have that amendment. [[It's complex.]] It's been filed. Thank you. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing by Senator Magdalena Kochan. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This amendment is very important, but it has not been discussed with the environment, especially the shipping industry. It can have a very large impact on jobs, and at the same time it is regulated by a collective agreement in this area. We cannot support this amendment precisely because of the technical units that are not prepared for such an amendment at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u394	Thank you, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on local taxes and charges. The text of the Act is contained in print No 446 and the report of the Commission In print No 446 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the honourable Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which was held on 3 August. The committee was attended by representatives of the Association of Rural Cities of Poland, the Association of Polish Cities and the Association of Polish Cities. In order to amend the Act on Local Taxes and Charges... Otherwise, the law aims to exempt buildings, buildings and land seized under it in the air area of parts of airports of public use from real estate tax. On the basis of the article. The 5th Act on local taxes and charges by a resolution sets the rate of real estate tax, and these rates may not exceed the maximum values laid down in that provision, depending on the type and purpose of the property. In the light of Art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 17 of the Law of 3 July 2002 on the Aviation Law, the approval of the air part of the airport is the responsibility of the President of the Civil Aviation Office. Art. In turn, point 6 of the aviation law states that the aerodrome's flight section is an area permanently intended for the take-off and landing of aircraft and for the associated movement of aircraft, together with equipment for handling that traffic to which access is controlled. The amendment proposes that property tax be exempt from land, buildings and buildings in the area of public airport parts. The Act therefore aims to ensure that, in addition to buildings and buildings, all land in the area of public airport parts, including those land which are not occupied by buildings and buildings, in the current legal state also subject to taxation. High Izbo, during the work of the committee, the senators very critically assessed this law from the perspective of local government units. The arguments put forward by the applicants to justify this amendment are completely wrong. According to the committee members, the bill was badly prepared. First of all, the lack of an impact assessment was raised. The real estate tax is the income of municipal authorities, so the change does not apply to revenue to the state budget. This regulation would hit local governments hardest. The words of the applicant, Mr Dolata, who stated in the Sejm that, in the light of the circumstances cited by him, municipal authorities do not achieve any income or income due to air property tax within the limits of tens of thousands of zlotys and, importantly, only a small percentage of local authorities in Poland, which in the whole country should be regarded as an amount not relevant to the budgets of municipal authorities. The legislators state: municipal authorities do not achieve significant or even significant tax income. The author of the law does not refer to any formal source from which he has benefited by drawing up this estimate. In addition, in the final part of the quoted paragraph, the author, based, among others, on: in an approximate, often evaluated estimate, the following conclusion is reached: it must therefore be recognised that the proposed amendment to the Act on Taxation and Local Charges will not have any impact on the budgets of municipal authorities. And once again, it should be stressed that the author of the law does not cite any official, objective sources which would entitle him to make such a proposal. The representatives of rural communities present at the committee's meeting have subjected these words to crushing criticism. The wording of the draft author shows that no impact assessment has been carried out. At the committee meeting, it was claimed that at least one municipality was losing any amount of its proceeds without compensation for losses, which gives rise to the rejection of the law in its entirety. According to data, local governments in these regulations will lose about PLN 31 million. These data are estimated on the basis of information provided by airports. This proves once again that the designers have failed to comply with the statutory obligation to assess the impact of the regulation and, as is very likely, have not carried out an analysis in this regard at all. It has been argued that the proposal provides for changes in the rules on the use of real estate tax exemptions. This change is not editorial or does not remove interpretation doubts, as the projectors seem to have, and will have negative consequences for the budgets of the municipalities. It has been claimed that any tax exemption is an exception to the principle of universal property taxation. The solutions proposed by the designers will ensure that all land located in the area of parts of public use airports will benefit from a real estate tax exemption. The airport as a whole is considered by the legislator to be a separate building, so everything that is located at the airport would be exempt, in accordance with the letter of the law, from the tax, which would have fatal financial consequences for local governments. The members of the committee argued that a decision on tax exemptions should remain in the competence of the municipality. This is the competence of municipal authorities. And at this point I will only briefly refer, because it was raised at the committee meeting, to the example of the PKP, which here, in this hall, was discussed in the Senate, an example of a fatal law, which makes it enough that a fragment of the railway siding is located in this area, and the property there is located exempt from tax, which leads to huge losses in local governments, which are estimated at about PLN 1 billion. Unfortunately, this bill is a similar legal issue. I hope that the PKP Act, which is also discussed here in the Senate, will be converted and this legal bubble will be repaired. Investment such as the Central Communication Port, the area of which is to cover 66 km2 caused concern. Loss of income from real estate tax for such a municipality as e.g. The rams can be lethal. Then such a municipality would in principle be suitable for liquidation. Finally, after voting, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration recommends rejecting the law in its entirety. Five senators voted against, 1 against, and no one abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u396	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur. Senator Aleksander Swed has come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u397	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd just like you to clarify one thing. In your report, you said that the designers presented only an estimate of the impact of the regulation... [[They didn't introduce at all.]] So, have there been any quotas or no quotas at all? 'Cause what does that mean... [[They didn't introduce at all.]] ... an estimate of the impact of the regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u398	In fact, they have not presented an impact assessment at all. There were only throwing passwords like: basically the municipalities will lose nothing on it, and if they lose, they will lose tens of thousands of zlotys. And according to the calculations, for example, the Rural Union is about PLN 31 million. [[If you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u399	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u400	Mr. Senator, you're making arguments from the government. I would like to ask: was the committee meeting talking about how the law will affect the operation of small airports, including the functioning of e.g. aeroclubs? Was that on the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u401	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u402	It was about the fact that there are local governments who care about airports, the small airports you're talking about. It's just that today's local governments have such competence and if they care about such an airport, these airports are exempt from tax. This is the authority of the local government. The bill aims to exempt all airports from tax by the letter of the law, which is, as I said, very dangerous. Imagine a tax-free area, e.g. Central Communication Port. There are hotels, restaurants, warehouses of companies that, say, provide logistics services, etc. And all these companies would be tax-free. This bill is moving in this direction. Everyone on the committee, except one senator, was against this bill. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u403	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Zbigniew Dolata is in the Chamber. I'm glad you're here. Mr Zbigniew Dolata will present the position of the applicants for this parliamentary project. The Member wishes to take the floor, please. Let's go to the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your voice. It's a shame I couldn't attend the committee meeting yesterday, but I just didn't get an invitation to the committee meeting. I think there's been a misunderstanding here, which you've already drafted by the Senator rapporteur. The essence of this change is to clarify the rules that have been in force for several years, practically throughout the 21st century, in the Act on local taxes and charges. The intention of the legislator was to exempt parts of airports of public use from property tax, as well as public road lanes are exempted The municipal, district, voivodship, national and, as the lanes occupied by the railway tracks are released. The legislator wanted all forms of transport to be treated equally and exempt from tax. The record that was included in the article. Paragraph 7 1 point 3, as it turned out, was not quite precise. It sounded like this: real estate tax exemption is granted on buildings, buildings and land seized under them in the area of public airport parts. And all the local authorities managing the airports understood very well that these aircraft parts were exempt from real estate tax. But in the last few months, several municipalities have decided to reinterpret this bill and pay property tax on aircraft parts. Why? Because it has not been taken into account, this is what the rapporteur said, the definition of buildings. Well, the construction of the whole airport is the airport, which is the part of the airport that is the building. Whether it has a concrete belt or a grass belt, it is a building, and what is the area of this structure, i.e. what land is occupied under this structure, is decided by the President of the Civil Aviation Authority. It is not that the airport manager can determine the area of this airport in any way. Absolutely not. This is decided by the office, the President of the Civil Aviation Authority. And, of course, the reason for such an area, not another one, to be in this part of the air, is above all the safety of air operations. Therefore, there are absolutely no consequences of this change, because before 8 July, i.e. before the adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of this project, about which we are discussing today, this is exactly what was in operation. But, like I said, it wasn't precise. Therefore, we, the applicant, do not hide that at the request of the aviation environment... Because it's not true that there's no positive opinion on this bill. There were a lot of positive opinions. Regional Aeroclubs, Aeroclub Poland, the Association of Regional Airports spoke very positively about the project, now about the bill. That is why we have decided to clarify this provision, which reads as the rapporteur said, states that land, buildings and buildings which form part of the airport of public use are exempt from real estate tax. It's just that no one has any doubts anymore. Although there is a specific definition of buildings in construction law, but in order to be clear, we have made such proposals. Therefore, no government will suffer any financial damage as a result of this amendment. Of course, it can be said that the three municipalities will suffer, because in Poland there are 3 municipalities that have gone towards this reinterpretation of the rule that I was talking about, the municipality of Mierzęcice, the municipality of Ożarowice and the municipality of Zabierów, because they simply sought a legal loophole that allowed them to reach for undue measures. It's obvious. Take Kraków-Balice Airport, for example. The area of this port is close to 500 ha and it is located in the territory of 3 communes, the communes of Zabierów, the communes of Liszki and the city of Kraków. The municipality of Takers imposed a tax, the other 2 municipalities did not impose this tax, rightly interpreting the provisions of this law as not permitting it. Similarly, municipalities do not tax e.g. to the Marshal's Office of the Lubuskie Voivodship due to the passage through the territory of this voivodship of some kind. Some municipality in the Lubuskie voivodship could look for some legal clue in the Act on local taxes and charges and try to impose a tax on real estate on the roadway of the voivodship. If this had somehow worked out, of course, after clarification, because I am convinced that parliamentarians, Members and Senators would have clarified this provision so that it would not be possible to do so. Of course, it could not be said that the budget of this hypothetical municipality was damaged, because it simply imposed an unlawful tax, bending, using colloquialism, the law. The municipalities, of course, benefit from the location of the airport in their territory, regardless of whether it is an airport of public use, certified, i.e. such an airport of real occurrence, or a small airport of aeroclub. Those who have an airport, of course, have a higher income, those who have an airclub airport, have less income, but benefit. What's the title? Also for real estate tax. And I'll give the High House the data here. E.g. Kraków Balice Airport, i.e. The airport manager pays PLN 3 million to the municipalities in which the site is located for real estate tax on those land which are in the non-aircraft part of the airport. Similarly, Katowice Pyrzowice, 2 municipalities, Ożarowice and Mierzęcice, receive a tax on the non-aircraft part of PLN 2 million 900 thousand. Gdansk Lech Wałęsa Airport 1 million PLN 350 thousand. Airport in Lublin 1 million PLN 300 thousand. Poznań S3awica PLN 1 million 200 thousand. Well, the most of course Chopin Airport in Warsaw, because it is the largest 4.5 million PLN. But also aeroclub airports pay property tax on non-aircraft parts. For example, the Olsztyn Aeroclub pays 19 thousand PLN. Leszczyński There is one of the largest airclub airports, in the centre of glider training pay 91 thousand PLN. Yeah, and similar amounts are paid by other aeroclubs. Once again, from the non-aircraft parts of the airport. Therefore, this amendment does not alter the legal situation of local authorities and airport managers in any way. I listened very carefully to the discussion at the meeting of the local government committee and there, to be honest, there was nothing about aeroclubs. Most of the talk was about these unfortunate railway areas. And indeed, this problem is important, this is indeed a legal gap. As far as I know, this legal gap will soon be removed. And there's no analogy here. Why? It is because there is no institution in the area of rail transport that determines what part is occupied under the rail transport infrastructure and which is not. And that's what makes it possible -- because of this imprecise record, they avoid taxing the various entities that, at least, have a fragment of the railway line. This is absolutely unacceptable, it must be fixed. However, as I said, there is no analogy as to air transport, because here no entity decides by itself what is the part of the airport and what is non-aircraft. As I said, the president of the Civil Aviation Office is in charge. So here, no legal gap, I'm saying this so that you, the Senators, are aware of this. We don't create, we absolutely don't create. What will be the consequences of the rejection of the bill? Because the committee voted for that motion. Taking into account some black script But you have to deal with such a black scenario. If this reinterpretation of the rule, which was in force before 8 July and was in force until today, because the law did not come into force, the one we are talking about, and if all the local authorities in which airports are located, especially aeroclub airports... Within one year we eliminate all regional aeroclubs in Poland. Why? Because these aeroclubs are really in an extremely difficult financial situation. They're saving up for everything. The only thing they need to do is, of course, ensure the safety of air operations, which is to make sure that air equipment is in good condition. But they don't invest. Pay attention to the fact that our aviation industry, for example glider companies, had great They almost don't work anymore. Why? Because aeroclubs don't shop. So they don't have any resources, they can't spend giant amounts, because that's what we're going to talk about. The airport in Leszno, if the local government decided to levy a part of the air property tax, would pay about or maybe even slightly over PLN 1 million. That would be the fall of this airport, that de facto aeroclub. I was a member of the Ostrów Aeroclub for many years, as is the case with the Ostrów Aeroclub and all others. But these would also be affected by large ports. Maybe Okęcie would survive, but regional ports wouldn't be able to afford property tax. Imagine, High Izbo, that the COVID, which in general stopped air traffic, especially passenger traffic, has led 3 airports to record a slightly better result without operating air operations than in 2019 when air operations were conducted. Why? Because it's a cost-effective thing. The air ad says if you want to be a millionaire, you have to be a billionaire and invest in the airport. And as humorous as it sounds, that's what it really looks like. During the covid period, many airport managers apply to the government for financial support. I do not know if the senators have done this, but I do know that many Members have written interpellations to give such support, because in a moment this great success... We're a huge success when it comes to airports. Since 2012, when the bill was amended, we have really fantastic airport development, given the earlier period. And now we could bring down regional ports. I will refer here to the benefits for local authorities for the location of the airport in their territory. These are new jobs. Airports attract investments because airplanes are a modern means of transport. Many local government officials are fighting to have an airport in their territory. Local authorities invest in airports, they are often majority shareholders of airports and, as I said, do not impose on them. ♪ Except for a few cases ♪ No taxes, because they know they'd kill a hen that can handle golden eggs. We can't do that, High Senate. I've heard statements, watching the committee's meeting, that it's some sort of attempt on the Central Communication Port. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Communication Port will also have a separate flight section and a non-aircraft part. It's obvious. This should be the pride and pride of the whole of Poland. As in the Second Republic of Poland all Poles were proud of the construction of Gdynia, just as today we should be proud that this port will be built. It is not known who will eventually cut the ribbon after the completion of this investment, but we should be proud to have an airport that will be a port for the 21st century, which will be a port of great, one of the largest in the world. And one more thing. Speaking of self-government, I would like to remind you of the principle of legal certainty. The airport manager today has such a situation that the mayor or the mayor in whose area the airport lies is friendly, favorable, similarly the councilmen understand how important it is that the airport is located in their territory, but in a few years there will be elections, another mayor, another mayor, another council and they will not see these benefits. Ba, often airport areas are located near cities, are an attractive investment area and there may be temptation to impose such a tax, eliminate this aeroclub and take over this area for some investment, whether residential or infrastructure, industrial. Thus, this scenario cannot be ruled out. The airport manager must be sure that the legislator treats all modes of transport equally: rail and road transport. Therefore, I would really like to ask the High House to take these arguments into account and to reject the motion for rejection, if I speak well, and if I do wrong, then Mr. Marshal will probably correct me... [[Yeah, okay.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I ask you to reject this motion for rejection because it is not an anti-government law, on the contrary, it is a pro-government law and it is a pro-aircraft law. And I think that we all care about the development of aviation in Poland, starting with this small one, and ending with this great transport, because it is extremely important for our country and it would be unforgivable if we led here to some catastrophe. Or even to fall... It would be bad if even one aeroclub fell, and as I said, they would fall absolutely all. Because no aeroclub is able to survive even a year from several hundred to a million PLN tax on real estate. Therefore, as I had previously requested, I ask you to reject this proposal from the committee, i.e. to give a positive opinion on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Of course you can talk about rejection, but you can't... [[Questions...]] Yes? [[Questions...]] They'll be here soon. Mr President, since there will be questions, I would still ask you here. Of course, you can say that you want to reject this proposal, but the proposal, unfortunately, cannot be made by a Member in the Senate... [[I was just asking.]] ...formally... [[Right. I was just asking.]] Good. Anyway, and vice versa, the senator in the Sejm can't apply either. So of course I understand that this was not a formal conclusion. The senators can now submit to the questions of the Member. Mr. Jerzy Czerwiński volunteered and Mr. Wadim Tyszkiewicz volunteered. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u406	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, thank you for your many explanations. I am not on the committee of local government, but on the provisions of this amendment of the law I had positive messages from both local authorities from my region, and I am from the south of Lower Silesia, as well as from aeroclubs that would like to open up in principle, and we know that there are many adversities, both financial and legislative. So I get it. That's why it's my earlier question to the Senator of the rapporteur. In fact, this amendment will have a positive impact on the functioning of aeroclubs, in principle it will save aeroclubs, and maybe it will allow new aeroclubs or new airports, small airports simply to be created. I would like this to sound in this debate, because it is a little different from the arguments that you presented earlier by the Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u407	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There you go... Sorry, the other way around. Thank you, Senator. And there you go, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u408	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I thank the senator very much for this clarification question. As I said, there will be no change, there will be only clarification of the rules that will fulfill the tasks... Well, the main thought of us as applicants was the principle of legal certainty. The airport manager will be sure that no property tax will be levied on their flight parts, as it has been so far. So this will not change absolutely anything in the legal situation, because there is no change, but this clarification will promote the principle of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u409	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. [[May I ask you another question, Mr. Marshal?]] Gentlemen Senators, I would just like to make a slight remark that I am sitting here for more than two hours, which is a matter of health and safety. I don't think anybody's gonna change me. I'd like to finish this point, so I'm writing the senator down for the question. And now you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for explaining in such detail what this is really about. Therefore, I have a question to make this explanation even more complete. The Act on local taxes and charges is from 1991, i.e. 30 years old. I understand that this airport release law has been in place since the beginning, which means it's 30 years old. Was it equally understood during this 30-year period, or were there attempts before to change the understanding of this provision? Was there a judicial line in this regard? And what happened that now 3 municipalities are trying in a sense to force a change in this juror line, if she was, to make it different? Why do I apologize for the expression? Okay, okay, For money, for undue money?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u411	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u412	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Thank you for that question. I have to say, this entry in the article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (3) has not been in force for 30 years since the release of parts of airports was introduced at the beginning of that age. Now I can't remember when, but it seems that in 2002. Yeah, but it's been working long enough. It is practically old enough to consider that there has been no question of interpretation so far. However, local governments are creative when it comes to raising funds, and as I said, for several months, several municipalities have been trying to impose this property tax on these parts of the air. The senator also asked about court decisions. There is one ruling of the Provincial Administrative Court in Bydgoszcz, which interpreted this provision according to the intentions of local governments. This encouraged other local authorities, which as if they did not understand the importance of having an airport in their territory, to try to impose a property tax on aircraft parts. Still, we can't... We as legislators cannot discriminate against one mode of transport. Of course, the revenue of the local government is extremely important, but if you take into account the financial condition of local governments and compare it with the financial condition of aeroclubs or even airports, there will be a huge imbalance. The financial situation of local governments is definitely better than aeroclubs. Besides, aviation is an extremely important sector of the economy. It is also of great social importance, prestigious. After all, Poland has achieved enormous successes in all aviation competitions, starting with the gliders By plane competitions, parachutes, balloons, we have fantastic air traditions and it would be really unwise to allow these great traditions, huge experience and work of many generations of Polish aviation lovers, Polish pilots, people involved in the development of aviation to be wasted. So that unfortunately, sometimes local government officials are also erring, but as I said, most local authorities support their airports and do everything they can to... Mr. Senator asked if new aeroclubs could arise. Of course I do, but if there was a real estate tax on aircraft parts, no aeroclub would have been created, and as I said, they would have fallen absolutely all of them. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u413	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u414	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Ambassador, there's been a total misunderstanding. Maybe due to your absence at the committee meeting. I don't know who did this, because of course you should be invited, and I'm going to try to explain it. The chairman of the committee should invite you, without a doubt. So this is a total misunderstanding. I was reporting on the committee meeting, I wasn't asking if I was right, if you're right, or whoever. I've been reporting on the committee meeting. If you were in committee, maybe it would look different. But I'd like to ask... what's the air part? Definition of non-aircraft structures and aerospace structures. I know it's a question, but maybe two words of introduction. No one thought about it on the committee, at least no one said that someone wanted to rip off the aeroclubs and that they wanted to get rid of them. ♪ By the thought of no one ♪ It didn't go through. Mr. Member, I am from Lubuskie Voivodeship, we have Babimost, the airport in Babimost, which we defend as independence. I'm behind airports, aeroclubs, so they're fired, let them fly... Of course, I prefer it to be within the authority of the local government, so that it is the local government that decides about these redundancies, but it never occurred to anyone that, apart from those calculated 31 million, there would be any benefit from it. The negative opinion was received e.g. from the village of Rêdzina. You listed 3 municipalities, I have a municipality of Rêdziny. It's a devastating opinion. Maybe there's been a misunderstanding here. But once again: local governments, all local governments... I can say for all the local governments in Poland, and you're talking about 3 that want to rip off some aeroclubs... I think everyone cares about having airports, so that they can grow. But that's not the point. I think it was worrying that because the president of this... what's it called, not to confuse... [[Let me remind you, the questions last a minute.]] Okay, I'm almost done. He decides what's part of the plane and what's not, and here's the fear. Mr President, the negative opinion of the Polish County Association, the negative opinion of the Rural Union, the negative opinion... There's been a misunderstanding somewhere. Question, conclusion: where? Does this apply to those parts of the plane? Are hotels that will be built e.g. In the Aries, if I'm not mistaken, will they be exempt, will they not be exempt from tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, Mr. Senator, I absolutely did not have the impression that Mr. Senator was presenting his view of this bill and of the issue that we are discussing and which is regulated by this bill. As I said, I would like to take part in this committee meeting because in fact there were only representatives of local governments, there was no one from the aviation environment, there was no of course, me, or the Member of the applicant, and therefore this impression was made... Mr Senator was very specific about this discussion at the committee meeting, because here I have no objections. But unfortunately, there have been many inaccuracies or misunderstandings here. Mr. Senator asked me what the plane part was. According to air law, according to the Act of 3 July 2002, the aviation part of the airport is an area permanently intended for the take-off and landing of aircraft and the associated movement of aircraft, together with facilities for handling that traffic to which access is controlled. The definition is very precise, very precise. And that's the misunderstanding that I think locals, especially those who... We don't have that many airports. We have dozens of airports for several thousand local authorities. So most local governments know this problem only from hearing. That's why these self-government corporations unfortunately prepared negative opinions... Well, I'm sorry about that. I have explained this, I have spoken with many representatives of local authorities at meetings of the Committee on Public Finance and Local Government in the Sejm. Well, communication between individual self-governments worked the way it worked... And there's this belief that we're doing some kind of attack on local government finances, we're doing an attack on local government budgets. There's no such thing. Nothing's gonna change here. Municipalities that benefit e.g. from the airport of Sławica... This million 200 of the non-aircraft part will continue to be paid. Aeroclub airports, if they have e.g. some small hotel, located in the non-aircraft part, they pay tax on it if they have some cafe in the non-aircraft part of it pay tax on it. So there's absolutely nothing going to change here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u416	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u417	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Tyszkiewicz, I would like to ask in the context of the previous question, but Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz asked this question in part. I'd just like to comment on what happened at the committee meeting... I am not saying that it was the Senator rapporteur's view that there would be some tax-free zones, including hotels and other parts, and that it would hit the local government. As we can see It is still clear from what you are saying It's going to be positive for local governments, and it's going to support... Because it's usually the government that's on the front line fighting for these aeroclubs, it's usually the mayors, mayors and presidents who are interested in making this aeroclub a small airport on the ground. So that I would ask, Mr President, that it sounds like no tax-free zones will arise. It is about assessing the impact of regulation And it's not gonna hit local governments. The point is to emphasize it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u418	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u419	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Yes, of course. The aviation part, once again, is not freely determined by the airport manager, but is determined by the President of the Civil Aviation Office. I have read this definition in order to be precise, and it follows from this definition what the President of the Civil Aviation Office is guided by in this respect. Even if the airport manager wanted to turn on e.g. some commercial facilities or hotels... the President of the Civil Aviation Office will not support such a request and will not extend the airport area to such facilities. It is only about this misunderstanding related to the concept of building. I think it's hard for most people to imagine the construction of a grassy aeroclub belt, but according to construction law it's a building. We were merely clarifying this, at the beginning of this phrase, which speaks of the exemption, we wrote land, buildings and buildings, so that no one had any doubt that there was an air part at that time and that only this air part was exempt from tax. Other parts of the airport, which are non-aircraft parts, which do not serve air operations, which serve the managing port... Because it's obvious that the port manager, because his income, for example, from a passenger charge, is very low... And it's very good, because it makes us have cheap tickets, relatively cheap airline tickets. But he's got to make up for the money he doesn't get in surgery. Like I said, you almost don't make money in air operations. And yet we all expect the right standard at the airport. This, of course, does not only apply to large airports or even regional airports, but also to aeroclubs. Well, they must also be equipped with air traffic safety devices. If he's there, for example. an old radio station and airport manager, or an air traffic manager, will not hear messages coming from aircraft, so this could lead to a plane crash. So we have to keep that in mind. In aviation, you can't save money on safety, because if someone saves money on safety, unfortunately, it ends in death. I think the senators, given that, you will find that this bill is very, very useful. As I said, it is absolutely not aimed at the income of local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u420	Thank you very much. I have a brief question, Mr. Speaker. A while ago, quite a long time ago, some municipalities suddenly became quite rich because they started charging taxes on waterways, waters and stuff like that. Well, if water can be taxed, why can't a piece of grass in a meadow be taxed? Isn't that some sort of lobbyist action? For some reason, the aviation industry receives some distinction or an exception that is not available to others. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, thank you for that question. I've already explained that. Well, there is no exception here, on the contrary. Without this clarification regulation, air transport would be discriminated against because the Act on local taxes and charges in Article. 7 provides for exemptions from property tax for public road lanes. Thus, municipalities cannot charge tax on real estate, on motorways, on expressways, on national roads, on voivodeships, or on district roads. Well, in the case of municipal roads, they would charge a tax on themselves, so it's known to be impossible. But in any case, the road lanes and the elements of the railway infrastructure are released. Well, the senators were just asking about a certain imprecise record, which causes some entities to avoid paying property tax, having even a small section of the railway line on their territory. This needs to be clearly clarified, this will certainly be clarified. I know there's even a senate project in this case, and from what I hear, there's going to be a government project. I think these two projects will lead to the fact that this flaw is not going to be eliminated. But I'm already answering Mr. Marshal's question: no, there's no preference here, and there's no lobbyist activity. I already informed that this provision is valid in Poland for practically the entire 21st century, i.e. for several years. He is already of age, but only for several months have several local governments tried to reinterpret this provision, find a legal loophole that would allow such a tax to be imposed. But you could also imagine that some community would tax a public roadway of some kind. I think that the legislator should respond to attempts to circumvent the law and treat all modes of transport equally. We do not reduce the revenue of local governments, because local governments, as I said here, collect property tax from airport managers, but from non-aircraft parts. And these are millions of dollars, for example. Warsaw Okęcie pays PLN 4.5 million property tax, on non-aircraft parts, other ports a little less because they have a smaller area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u422	Thank you very much. No further questions. I have a question: does the government representative, Minister Andrzej Bittel, wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u423	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. After this excellent discussion and an excellent presentation of the problem, it should be added only that the rules on the lay-offs of aircraft parts, airports, came together with the Airports Act in 2002 and for many years, as the Member rightly said, were functioning without any complications. Of course, for several months now, a new legal line has been being created, in my view, incompatible with the spirit and provisions of the law, which could be said to be graphically It leads to a situation where the area, the green belt between the sidewalk and the street, would be taxed for comparison to the municipal roads. Because this legal line means that green areas around hardened belts or these green stripes are not constructions, so they are land, so they will be taxed. And that is absolutely incompatible with what the legislator intended. This is the result of a revised interpretation of these provisions. A word of comment in relation to railway regulations in this regard, because this was also mentioned here. I would like to say that, in my view, here we have a similar case, a similar case, the case law of the courts has made it quite clear that the provision has taken on a different meaning. But we are actually working to make sure that... the case law cannot be changed, but we can change the wording of the rules in such a way that they no longer raise doubts, although in my opinion there is no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u424	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The question is asked remotely by Senator Jolanta Hibner. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jolanta Hibner... Can we get you on the phone? Well, unfortunately, we're not able to connect. State of Computer Science, do we have a problem? We can't see or hear you. Maybe we need to click... Well, unfortunately, the senator will eventually have to ask his question in writing. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. There's been some misunderstandings. We have already agreed with you on a possible meeting to straighten out these doubts. It wasn't the commission's intention to pay extra taxes on airports or aeroclubs. No one was gonna do that. It is only a pity that, somewhere at some stage in the process of this law, these doubts were not explained. Once again, I have the opinions of the Association of Polish Cities, the Rural Union, the Union of Polish Districts and there is rather a fear that the municipalities will lose their taxes, the ones they receive today. There was no mention of any additional fees or taxes or booking of airports or yet, God forbid, aeroclubs give tribute. So something sparked on the phones, something wasn't completely explained. We'll try to clear it up tomorrow. If we're talking about a tax exemption for aviation objects or what we call them, the flight parts... If we speak e.g. about the runway, about the equipment necessary to operate air traffic, I think that no local government here has the slightest doubt that this tax exemption was, is and will be. The local government was worried they'd lose their taxes. E.g. about the Balice you were talking about. So that something on the phones didn't work here, we have to explain it. Take, for example. the famous Lambs we are talking about, if in this case there is a tax exemption for the runway or landing lane and equipment there, then no one will discuss it. Rather, the concern was that the entire infrastructure around it could be exempt from tax. If we can figure this out, I hope this bill will just pass. If these intentions referred to by the State concern only air structures in the form of belts and associated equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u426	Thank you very much, Senator. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Gromek, Senator Gromko and Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I'm sorry, I didn't add my name, Mariusz Gromko and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, on behalf of the applicants, has requested the Speaker of the Senate to consider item twenty-fifth of the agenda, i.e. the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws as the first item on the second day of the Senate's deliberations, i.e. 5 August. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Therefore, tomorrow's deliberations will begin with the examination of the 25th item. Looks like we're done here tonight, huh? Messages. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u427	Ladies and gentlemen, joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Labour The printing will take place tomorrow, 5 August, at 9.30 a.m. in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Law on the monitoring and control of fuel quality and certain other laws, the examination of the requests submitted to the Act on special solutions related to the special use of forest land, will take place on 5 August, i.e. tomorrow, at 8.45 am in room No 217. And one last announcement. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities, the Law on Environmental Protection and the Waste Act will take place tomorrow, 5 August at 9.00 p.m. in room No 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-08-04-senat-28-1.u428	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 39]]
