ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u1	Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the situation in Belarus. The scale and intensity of repression against civil society passing through Belarus following the fraudulent presidential elections held in August 2020 require solidarity and decisive action by the international community. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland strongly condemns the act of state terror, which led to the forced landing of the Ryanair airline in Minsk on 23 May 2021, which created a threat to aviation safety and the unlawful detention by the Belarusian authorities of Raman Pratasiewicz and Sofia Sapiga. We demand their immediate release and freedom of movement. We ask the International Civil Aviation Organisation to investigate this unprecedented and unacceptable event urgently. We call on the parliaments of the countries of the European Union and the Council of Europe to act actively and jointly in favour of Belarusian civil society and the democratisation process in Belarus, and to strengthen the solidarity of European countries towards the Minsk regime, in particular to support measures to free political prisoners and stop repression. We call on the Council of Ministers to mitigate the principles of Polish asylum policy and international protection policy against Belarusian political refugees. We are concerned about the escalation of repression against Belarusian society, whose subsequent sequences have led to a dramatic situation in which our people, the citizens of Belarus, have also been living for generations on this land. The culmination of these events is the arrest of Angelica Boris, Andrzej Poczobut, Anna Paniszewska, Maria Tiszkowska and Irena Biernacka. We demand the release of persons detained as soon as possible and the cessation of repression against them that violate fundamental human rights. We support the conclusions of the extraordinary European Council and call for the list of sanctions to be extended as soon as possible to include additional persons and entities, as well as targeted economic sanctions against the regime. We also call on the Council of Ministers to take decisive, consistent and concrete action on this issue, including the sanctioning of persons of the apparatus of power, justice and security directly involved in the repression of Poles in Belarus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u2	I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the situation in Belarus. We'll proceed to the... Your marshal, your marshal, your marshal... Excuse me, we have a formal motion. Mr President, I apologise very much for the formal proposals. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club pursuant to Article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I apply for a break and supplement to the agenda for a point consisting of the presentation by the Minister of State Assets, Mr Jacek Sasin, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Zbigniew Rau, Minister for Climate Affairs and the Environment of Mr Michael Kurtyka, of information on the identification of the reasons, effects and consequences of the order in the form of a provisional measure by the Court of Justice of the European Union immediately stopping coal mining in the Turów mine. For more than a week we have witnessed a political ping-pong between the Polish government and the Czech government, an exchange of views that could be avoided if the Polish side had sat down from the beginning and started talking. The government is now trying to heroically solve the problem that it created... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, one minute. Thank you, Member. ...with his shoe, arrogance and lack of political plans for the transformation of the Turoszów region. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u4	Madam, I would like to inform you that on this matter... I would like to inform you, and you, too, at the Bureau meeting and at the Convention meeting, that the government will be informed at the next meeting on 15 June. Since you have requested an interruption, I will put this request to the vote. And for what? Why? Uninformed and submitting an application. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal... 455 Members voted. 209 - for, 235 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The second formal proposal - Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15 You're welcome. Let me remind you that the same motion cannot be re-voted. Let's go, let's go. But it could be reported.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In January 1958 the Council of Ministers of the Polish People's Republic decided to start the construction of the Turów complex. The investment consisted in the construction of a 1200 MW power plant and the expansion of the Turów mine. Today we have an emergency situation. After 32 years of independent and democratic Poland, the vice-president of the Court of Justice of the European Union decided on 21 May 2021 to cease mining of brown coal in the Turów mine. This is an unjustified decision, striking at the energy independence of Poland and our political independence. Such a provision has a huge social and economic impact. We are dealing with the Czech business lobbying hidden under the cloak (the bell) of ideology... Mr President, the matter is very important, but this is a statement, not a formal proposal. Thank you very much. This is not a formal conclusion. You haven't filed a formal application. Excuse me, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki from the Confederation. I just got to the point where I wanted to file a formal motion. That's where you start, sir. I can't hear you, Marshal. As a matter of fact, I'm filing a motion. It's obvious now that the request for a break will be gone because... Exactly. Thank you, sir, thank you very much. It is about the adoption of a position by the Sejm on the interference of the TSUE in the political and economic independence of Poland. [[Applause]] This is not a formal proposal, Mr President. Today's mine, and tomorrow's part of Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u6	Thank you. Mr President, you are right, I completely agree with you, but this is not a formal proposal. I'm sorry. I invite Mr Zhuk to make a statement. Mr President, today there will be parliamentary statements, you can make your point: Members' statements. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u7	Mrs. Marshal! I submit a request for adjournment by supporting Mr Żuk in the fact that today the Sejm should issue a resolution on the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union does not have the right to close down our mine, to liquidate our energy. The point is to get the Sejm to deal with it today and give a clear position. This is our national business. This is, of course, a pebble to the backyard of the left side of the room, the ruling one, which also shows what it means to transfer competences to Brussels, is the transfer of competences to which Morawiecki also agreed last year. That's how it ends. This is the end of Miller's sale of sovereignty by Tusk and Morawiecki - what is in Turów. Don't scream. This is all your doing. [[Applause]] This is your common cause that will be settled. Go to Turov and tell the miners, tell the energy community that you sold sovereignty, including energy sovereignty, just for (the bell) poor silvers in Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u8	Mr President, we were in Bogatynia and Turów. Since you have requested a deferral, I will put this proposal to the vote, in full agreement with both Mr Żuk and Mr Winnicki. It's against the law. Once again, I would like to inform you that there will be information at the next session of the Sejm on this matter. Nobody left this behind. Turów is in my district, so I'm also very interested in getting this over with as soon as possible so that the residents can work peacefully, live and not worry about what's going to happen tomorrow. [[Applause]] As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 58 for, 288 against, 110 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I just wanted to let you know what Mr Suski said just a moment ago that yesterday, the committee to which the meeting took place adopted the exact same position, so it is not that nothing is done about it. And the last formal proposal - Mr Janusz Kowalski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I make a formal request that the debate on Turov and this unprecedented attack by the Court of Justice of the European Union on Polish energy independence invite representatives of all four trade union centres to the Sejm, who in Wrocław before the European Commission, have made it clear: hands away from Turow. It's about NSZZ and Solidarity, OPZZ, Forum and August 80. It is these union centers that defend Polish energy independence today, defend Polish jobs - and they deserve respect - for which I thank them very warmly. The Prime Minister who blew it. And to all Members of the Civic Platform and Simon Hołowni, who wanted to close the Turów power plant and the mine providing the current of 4 million households a few hours after this scandalous ruling, I call for one thing: a little loyalty to Poland. Stop attacking Poland. Stop attacking Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u10	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion, of course. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and certain other laws (prints No 1159 and 1165). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and on certain other laws, print Nos 1165 and 1159. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights considered this resolution at its meeting on 18 May 2021. The Senate tabled 44 amendments. The Commission recommends adopting all 44 amendments and proposes a joint vote on the amendments mentioned in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u12	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 9. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the National Debt Register Act. In the 1st amendment to e.g. Article 2 Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 The Senate proposes an editorial change. Amendment 1, including amendments 2, 3, 5, 6, 11, 13, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24, 25, 28 to 32, 34 to 36, 38 and 42. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 3, 5, 6, 11, 13, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24, 25, 28 to 32, 34 to 36, 38 and 42, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, 448 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 4th Amendment to e.g. Article 2 170 of the Act - Insolvency Law The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 1. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 1 for, against - 449, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 7 and 8. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Restructuring Law. In the 7th amendment to the article. 110. 2 The Senate proposes amendments to the second sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, 452 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 196 C. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 1 for, 453 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 36 of the Act on the National Debt Register The Senate proposes a different date for the entry into force of the Act in the implementation of the calculation. Amendments 40, 41, 43. and 44 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9, 40, 41, 43, and 44, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Nobody was for, 454 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 10 to 24. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 amending law containing amendments to the Act - Bankruptcy Law. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes an editorial change. Amendment 10 will be considered in conjunction with amendments 12, 15 to 17, 23, 26, 27 and 37. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10, 12, 15 to 17, 23, 26, 27 and 37 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 14th amendment to the article. 56d The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 3 and 4 and add paragraphs. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, against -451, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the new wording of Article. 228a. This amendment is combined with the 33rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20 and 33 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 2 for, 451 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 39th amendment to Article. 307 Law - Restructuring Law The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 3 and 4, add paragraph. 3a and repeal paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against -451, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws (Prints Nos 1161 and 1180). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The report is contained in print No 1180. The Senate has introduced 24 amendments to this bill. The Marshal of the Sejm addressed this resolution to the Senate on this matter to the committee. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, following the recognition of this resolution at its meeting on 19 May, recommends that the High Sejm accept 13 amendments and 11 reject them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u14	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. In the first amendment to Article. 986 The Senate proposes an amendment to paragraph 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 227 for, 226 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 986 The Senate proposes an amendment to paragraph 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 231 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 986 The Senate proposes that a new wording be given to paragraph 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 454, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 986 The Senate proposes an amendment to paragraph 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. No one was against - 453, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 986 The Senate proposes an amendment to paragraph 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 1 for, against -454, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 986. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. For - 229, 219 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 231 - for, 214 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments 8 to 21. The Senate reported it to the article. 4 incorporating amendments to the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the 8th amendment to the article. 15zzs. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. Two for, against - 440, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 15zzs. 1 The Senate proposes a new wording of point 3. Amendments 12 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9, 12 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 229 - for, 226 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 15zzs. 1 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, against - 452, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 5 for, against - 446, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes to give a new mouth tone. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 16th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes to give a new mouth tone. 2, 4 and 5. Amendments 18 and 22 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 16, 18 and 22 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. There was no one, no 453 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 17th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 237 - for, 213 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 19th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes an amendment to point 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 229 - for, 223 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment to the article. 15zzs Senate proposes to amend paragraph 15. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. Three for, against, 450, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. 31zha Senat proposes a change in the paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment to the article. The 7th Law amending the Senate proposes an amendment to point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 1 for, against -442, 8 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 24th amendment to the article. 7 the Law amending the Senate proposes the addition of point 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, 210 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Foreign Service Act (Prints Nos 1211 and 1216). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u15	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the amendment of the Foreign Service Act No. 1211, which was addressed by your Marshal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 27 May this year. for consideration. At today's meeting, the Foreign Affairs Committee adopted a resolution. In its resolution, the Senate introduced one amendment. The Commission calls on the High Sejm to reject the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u16	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes in the article. 1 of the Amending Act delete point 1.1.11, point 12 (a). (b) and (c) (13).27. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Foreign Service. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1176-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading, 10 amendments were tabled to the government bill amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws. They were again addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure, which, when considering these amendments in detail, recommends that the High House reject amendments 1 to 9, accept Amendment 10 and, of course, adopt the whole of the draft law from the report of the Committees, prints 1176 and 1176-A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u18	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1176. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 10 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on certain forms of housing promotion. In the first amendment to Article. 22a paragraph. 1 applicants propose to amend the definition of a social rental agency. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 209 - for, 235 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 22a paragraph. 2 applicants propose to add point 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 203 - for, 239 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose among others. delete point 4 of Article. 22b. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 82 for, 239 against, 131 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 22b applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 208 - for, 236 - against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 22e paragraph. 1 applicants propose to add point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 82 for, 238 against, 131 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 22e applicants propose to add paragraph 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 206 - for, 234 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 22f paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose that a lease contract be concluded with a natural person meeting the criteria set out in the resolution referred to in Article. 22e paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 8 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Isn't there some computer guy who could rewrite this program? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 236 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 22f paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose that a lease contract be concluded with a person meeting the criteria set out in the resolution referred to in Article. 22e paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 199 - for, 239 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 22f applicants propose to add paragraph. 5.7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 84 for, 237 against, 126 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article to the Act. 33la and Article. 33lb. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 424 - for, 11 - against, stopped 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the whole draft law in print no. 1176, along with the amendment adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 433 - for, 4 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the Act on the system of education and the Act on the financing of educational tasks. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1204-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the law on the system of education and the law on the financing of educational tasks, printing 1204-A. The Commission has examined the proposals and amendments tabled at second reading and recommends rejecting the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, rejecting all amendments and asking the High Sejm to adopt the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u20	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1204. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 216 - for, 234 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The amendment was tabled in Article 1. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Education System Act. In this amendment to the article. 90 in the applicant, among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 219 - for, 233 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose among others. add to the draft law amending the article. 73b containing an amendment to the Law on the financing of educational tasks. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 for, 233 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 3rd amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 452 Members voted. For-- 219, against-- 231, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1204, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] 455 Members voted. 235 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on the system of education and the Act on the financing of educational tasks. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on the amendment of the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1205. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1205, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 439 for, 11 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We return to the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health on an urgent government bill amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1208-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u21	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to present to the High House an additional report on the joint meeting of the Health Committee and the Committee on Public Finance concerning an urgent government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. At its meeting of 27 May, the Commissions: Public Finance and Health requested that the law be adopted in full after the rejection of the 13 amendments tabled at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u22	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1202. The committees present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 a draft amending act containing amendments to the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 for, 239 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 7 the applicant by the addition of paragraph. 3 propose that the working rates from 2022 be increased annually by 0.20. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 3 to 13 were tabled in the annex to the Act. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the annex to the Act. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will make amendments from 4 to 13 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 215 - for, 234 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the annex to the Act. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 5 to 13. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 210 for, 232 against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the annex to the Act, applicants propose changes in order numbers from 1 to 8. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 6, 7, 9 and 13 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 206 - for, 237 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose amendments to order numbers 1 to 3 and 6 to 8. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 7, 9 and 13 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 208 - for, 234 - against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose changes in order numbers from 1 to 3. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 206 - for, 235 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose amendments to order numbers from 9 to 11. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 10 and 13 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 212 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose amendments to the order number 8. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 13 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 215 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the annex to the Act, applicants propose changes in order number 9. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 13 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 235 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose a new wording of the title in column two. The committees are filing for rejection. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 12 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 203 - for, 238 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose a new wording of the title in column two. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 239 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th Amendment to the Annex to the Act, applicants propose amendments to order numbers 8 and 9 in the third column. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 210 - for, 230 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1202, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 433 - for, 3 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 43 of the agenda: Appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National (prints no. 1139 and 1151). High Izbo! On 22 July this year. The term of office of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Mr Jarosław Szark will expire. Therefore, pursuant to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and Art. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, will appoint the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr Karol Nawrocki has been nominated as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Please take the floor of the President of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Wojciech Polak, to present his candidacy. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 27 April 2021, talks took place with candidates for the post of President of the Institute of National Remembrance. After hearing the candidates, after asking them questions, after examining the documents presented by them and after long meetings, the College unanimously decided that the best candidate was Dr. Karol Nawrocki, current director of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk. I therefore have the honour to present Dr. Karol Nawrocki's candidacy to the High House as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Dr. Karol Nawrocki is a graduate of history at the University of Gdańsk. He also received a PhD in humanities at this university. After his studies, he worked for many years in the Gdansk branch of the Institute of National Remembrance in responsible positions. Since April 2017, he has been the director of the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk. It is worth mentioning his achievements in this position, e.g. about the exhibition "Fighting and Suffering" - struggle and suffering, according to the greatest action of Polish historical diplomacy in history. The exhibition was translated into 37 languages and was shown in 160 places in the world. Dr. Karol Nawrocki is the author or co-author of several books, dozens of scientific articles, popular science about the history of anti-communist opposition, sports history and organized crime in the Polish People's Republic. He is also involved in preserving historical memory in Pomerania's public space. He is a member of several program councils of significant Polish museums. Especially important also in the context of IPN are the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic on the street. Rakowiecka in Warsaw, Battle Museum on Bzura in Kutno or Museum - Pilecki Family House in Markowa. He is a member of the Historical Diplomacy Council at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a member of the Council for Museums and National Remembrance Sites. He is involved in the work of local government in Gdansk, he was President of the Siedlce District Council in 2011. His concept of functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance Dr. Karol Nawrocki included in the words: the truth will not defend itself, thus signaling the need to defend the truth about the history of Poland in Poland and abroad in a systematic and consistent manner. This objective results from the commitment to a profound reflection on the organisational structure of the Institute which is necessary after 20 years of operation of the IPN. The aim of this reflection is to improve the efficiency of the work of the office employing 2,5 thousand. persons. In the concept of Dr. Karol Nawrocki, in addition to maintaining the current dynamics of the Institute's statutory activities, there are also many projects at international level. One of the most important projects is, for example, a broad project on institutional support for Polish archives and foundations spread around the world, or - what he considered to be one of the most important tasks for the coming years - the preparation of scientific and popular scientific studies on German and Soviet crimes during World War II. Such studies would be translated into all congress languages. The new element in the activities of IPN according to the concept of Dr. Karol Nawrocki will be the establishment of an office of modern technologies, which will consistently translate the scientific and educational achievements of the institute into a language that is understandable and interesting for young people, while maintaining a balance between the specific sacrum of history and the profanum of changing reality. The task of the new office will also be to further digitise the IPN resource and create opportunities to use it online. Dr. Karol Nawrocki announced the need to continue the research and exhumation work of Polish heroes, proposing to extend the scope of the exhumation to Central and Eastern Asia. The College of IPN highly assessed these and other projects proposed by Dr. Karol Nawrocki. In summary, the College of the Institute of National Remembrance believes that Dr. Karol Nawrocki, thanks to his skills, experience and mature concepts of the functioning of the National Remembrance Institute, gives the guarantee of efficient, dynamic and effective management of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is why on behalf of the College I recommend that the High House be appointed President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an opinion on the request of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals for the appointment by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland with the consent of the Senate as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish National Dr. Karol Nawrocki. The Commission considered the request of the College on 14 May 2021 and, after hearing the candidate and conducting the discussion, decided to give a positive opinion on this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u26	Thank you very much. I propose that the Sejm listen to the two-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u27	Dear Marshal! First of all, I would like to express my surprise that the candidate for IPN president is not sitting in a gallery where there is room for candidates, but is sitting in a chair right now. [[Applause]] a constitutional body. It's a very strange thing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the PiS finally loses its power, among the many dilemmas facing the future Seym, this... And the R.P.O. candidate wasn't sitting there? No. Yeah, she was. I saw it myself. No, no. Ladies and gentlemen, please. You're welcome, sir. Mrs. Marshal! When the PiS eventually loses its power, among the many dilemmas facing the future Seym, there will also be what to do with institutions that have been so deeply degenerate in the last 5 years that it is hard to believe that they can be saved in their present form. You're afraid of the truth. There was little left of the authority enjoyed by this institution when it was led by the first president of Prof. Leon Kieres. The last 5 years of the IPN operation are from the crisis to the crisis, from the amendment of the IPN Act to the nomination of a high-ranking nationalist, which some politicians on this side of the room have defended to the end. Only this case confirms that the representatives of the extreme right hand felt like fish in the water, making fast and brilliant careers. Let's move on to the candidate. Who are you? Dr. Nawrocki? This is above all the denomination of this authority used once by the PiS to take over one institution. He was used to remove Professor Paweł Machcewicz. You're such a... The political decision to take over the Museum of World War II was made by Nowogrodzka. It led to a change of the main exhibition against the will of its creators. Ladies and gentlemen! It also surprises the last fact. Introduction of gadgetry to the Museum of World War II. On the occasion of the 77th anniversary of the Battle of Monte Cassino... In your day, it was a dumpster. We don't even want to... Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left. I'd like to conclude. The Civic Coalition Club will not support this candidacy, a political candidate. [[Applause)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u28	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club in the case of a candidate for President of the IPN. And I say right away: The Left will, of course, vote against this candidacy. [[Applause]] Of course. We will vote against this candidacy for two reasons: firstly, because of a candidate who is extremely controversial and secondly, because we believe that the IPN should be abolished. Ha, ha, ha! As far as the candidate is concerned, the candidacy is extremely controversial. We have today, yesterday, we had information that the Supreme Audit Chamber will carry out an audit on the running and management of the World War II Museum by your candidate. NIK will examine the business trips of your director and deputies, the regularity of the management of funds or the correctness of the execution of public contracts. Of course, it must not be mentioned how Mr Nawrocki changed the permanent exhibition in the Museum of World War II under PiS dictation. And the very fact of the existence of the IPN. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, PLN 400 million a year... It's a lie. ...for the last six years, 2.5 billion PLN for unilateral propaganda and a false story. This is much more than the annual budget of the State Labour Inspection or the Ombudsman. A few weeks ago, the Left filed a bill to liquidate the IPN. In exchange for the liquidation of the IPN, we propose the establishment of an Institute for the Protection of the Constitution... Eliminate the labour inspection. ...because there is nothing more important today than the debate and education of our youngest citizens in terms of what constitutional values are, what human rights are and what democracy is. That's what this institute's gonna do. On the other hand, the prosecutors working in the IPN will be transferred to the DA's office. There is no need to maintain for a large amount of money prosecutors who conduct a few (the bell) proceedings. Thank you very much, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I beg you, Marshal, to begin... Thank you very much. ... parliamentary debate, legislative debate... Mr Krzysztof Paszyk... ...on a bill made by the Left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u30	Thank you very much, sir. We're at a different point. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. Work inspection eliminate, oh!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! In your CV, in your doctor's academic record, you can actually find many accents that were extremely controversial, but also if you take a closer look at this acquis, you can find initiatives that are hard to deny right and value. Today in this courtroom, High Izbo, it seems that the question of voting is certain. The election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance will be decided by the Senate. I, on behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, Doctor, would very much like to take up, for example. conversation in our club about the rehabilitation of Vincent Witos, who, despite all these years, cannot wait to restore the right place in memory and in the history of Poland. [[Applause]] We would like to propose such a meeting to talk there about your vision of acting as president of the Institute of National Remembrance also in this area. Restoring memory is an extremely important role of this institution and it is, I think, worth remembering. The staff sphere, the sphere of the whole environment, which has actually not been the best in recent years, is of course also an important area, but we would like, first of all, to restore the memory of many important figures, including Vincent Witos... Korfanty. ...very serious talk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Charles Nawrocki could be a good candidate. He could be a really good candidate. Given what he's done with the World War II Museum, I'm very optimistic. But here too is a good time to tell you what needs to be done at the Institute of National Remembrance. We count on a great commitment, for example, to decrypt and show the achievements of the greatest political movement of the Second Republic of Poland, i.e. the endition. The IPN should also definitely take care of defending the good name of Poland in the international arena, because we know that we have been attacked for decades, there are circles that do not like what our story really looked like, which makes us anti-Semitic, makes us Jewish, makes us people who are not civilized. It's true. And that's not true. That's true. Please don't disturb me. It is also time to deal with the information and history of Poland in the internal arena. That's a job for the IPN, too. So this is work on young people, on the young generation, because the last few years have actually been very substantive work, but work that hasn't gone to young people. That's something to think about. And the Confederation will support Mr Nawrocki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The committee's report is just a dry announcement. The candidate Charles Nawrocki gained little support in the justice committee. I'm informing you because, as the candidate for the new IPN president says, the truth isn't gonna stand up for itself. During the committee meeting, the candidate announced the implementation of new technologies for effective intergenerational dialogue. The operation of the Institute of National Remembrance would be translated into the language of computer games. The candidate announced activity in the field of culture, because in his opinion it is possible to educate through concerts or theatre plays. But is that what you need an IPN for? Let the games be created by professionals, concerts be organized by professionals, plays by independent creators, independent no-one and not working on anyone's commission. Because the truth will protect itself. [[Applause]] It is a pity that the candidate did not make a request to the Marshal of the Sejm to postpone the vote on the candidacy until, for example, the preliminary results of the audit by NIK, which the Supreme Audit Chamber announced, as Piotr Adamowicz of Gdańsk requested. Poland 2050 will not support Karol Nawrocki's candidacy, although we are happy that he likes sports - he plays boxing. However, we do not support the fact that the museum he has managed so far is a partner in commercial boxing fights. It is better to promote boxing, sport, its history, even showing the silhouette of the first Olympic gold medalist Zygmunt Chichała after the war. The complicated fates of this outstanding boxer born in Gdańsk are actually worth filming or theatre art, but the director or author of the script does not have to be the new president of IPN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u36	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, elects the President of the Institute of National Remembrance by a majority of votes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Karol Nawrocki as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal, why are such gestures forbidden, and such are acceptable? It's a communist gesture. It's true. 450 Members voted. 248 - for, 198 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm appointed Mr Karol Nawrocki as President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals. [[Applause]] Congratulations. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Mr Piotr Gliński, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am very pleased with this vote, as a result of this vote, because I have been working with Dr. Karol Nawrocki for several years and I can only talk about this cooperation in the very best way. That's what you're gonna say in the Senate. This is a responsible, competent, brave person. However, in connection with a thread that was discussed here, with hurtful and unworthy speeches concerning the changes that had to be made in the exhibition of the permanent Museum of the Second World War, I wanted to present to the High House what these changes were about, because it says all about the candidate and the dilemma that we have in Poland with historical politics and understanding of historical truth. Where are the movies? It is best to present this dilemma and the content of these changes through the content of the application filed by the previous director of this museum, chaired by the representative of Prime Minister Tusk for the construction of this museum. Well, this application, please, of the State which was sent to the District Court in Gdansk, has already been dismissed in the first instance. It included the following requests. It's not about that. Listen carefully... Listen to exactly what people wanted... Sit down! Let him talk about it. ...who organized a permanent exhibition in their lawsuit. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But in what mode? The Prime Minister has the right. The truth hurts. But in what mode? In the first point, the main exhibition of the Museum of World War II was requested to be removed from the portrait of o. Maximilian Maria Kolbe along with a multimedia position. In the second point - removal from the exhibition of the main portrait of Witold Pilecki. Disgraceful! In the third point - removal from the exhibition of the main photograph of Warsaw insurgents taking a military oath. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] At point four... Don't lie to me, man. They're just lies, aren't they? ...removals from the main exhibition photos of the Ulm family along with the media station. Disgraceful! Lying doesn't go away, Prime Minister. In the fifth point - removal from the exhibition of the main mask of Stefan Wincent Frelichowski... Mr President, you sit still and do not raise your voice. You do not raise your voice, sir. The Prime Minister is speaking right now. Please have a seat. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: ... Blessed priest... Listen with humility. Your marshal, lies fall in the courtroom. Mr. President, I don't think we're gonna talk today. In item six - removal from the exhibition of the main exhibit in the form of a census of Poles murdered in KL Dachau, prepared in 1946. Disgraceful! In the seventh point - removal of the main Polish national flag from the exhibition... Shame on you. ...saved in the Soviet Lviv occupied and restored to her place the macaque... Lie! ...presenting the welcome by the Belarusian minority of the Red Army... This isn't about. In your statements, you'll say it. To make statements. ...entering Polish lands after September 17th. In the eighth point - removal from the exhibition of the main exhibitor dedicated to Major. Henry Dobrzanski, Hubal. In the ninth point - removal from the exhibition of the main exhibitor dedicated to Marian Rejewski... He's lying to me. ...a Polish cryptologist who broke the Enigma cipher in December 1932. Disgraceful! At the tenth point - removal from the main exhibition... That's not true. ...an exposition - a revolver of a nagant, an illustration of the type of weapon from which Stalinist executioners shot in the years 1937-1938, killing national minorities in the Soviet Union. At the eleventh point - removal from the main exhibition... That's not true. ...exposition in the form of a drawing of Our Lady and a fragment... The truth hurts, doesn't it? ...passionate with a camp number. At point 12 - removal from the exhibition of the main boards: The 15th of the War... Prime Minister, don't manipulate the facts. This is pure manipulation. Sit down, sir. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: ... Soviet Union, communist state of mass terror. In what mode... In the 13th item - removal from the main exhibition in the section dedicated to... In regular mode. In regular mode, you should know that. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: ...partisans of new fragments... Sit down! ...the content of the input... If you don't want to, don't listen. ...for the subject of the soviet guerrilla, Polish, French, Yugoslav. As you may remember, in the original version of the permanent exhibition, the Polish guerrilla was evenly aligned with the French at that time. In the fourteenth point - removal from the exhibition of the main statistics of personal losses, removal from the exhibition of the main production of IPN, is such a memorable short production which talked about our understanding of history. Restoration of the original stage design of the exhibition in the section dedicated to the Polish Underground State. Finally, at the 17th point - transfer of exhibits concerning Capt. Anthony Kasztelan in the original place of their presentation, that is, to the display case of Rudolf Spanner. That's what these changes looked like, only basic, limited in content... But it was a violation of copyright. Mr President, please don't discuss this. Don't argue, I said. You may leave if you are unable to hear the Prime Minister's speech. How can you tell such things? Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: It's disgraceful here... At this point... Get out of the room. At what point, Marshal? In the rule of law, sir. But this is off the agenda. Where does this gentleman tell it? Take the rules and read them. Prime Minister, thank you very much. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Your Marshal, due to the atmosphere in the courtroom, I'd like to thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u38	Thank you very much. Your Marshal, may I? Sit down! No, absolutely, I'm not giving the floor. Sit down. In what manner is Mr. Prime Minister... We proceed with the examination of item 45 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1220). Please read the Sejm's Rules of Procedure again. Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... If the Member is Prime Minister, then... ...after consulting the Seniors' Convention, it submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1220 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 393 - for, 4 - against, suspended 13. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 11 hours 16 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor, add yourself to the list? If not, I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. I am asking Mr Stanisław Żuk, Circle of Poselskie Kukiz to speak first.15
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Friday 21 May 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union decided to immediately cease mining of lignite in the Turów mine. I believe that this is an unjustified decision affecting Poland's energy independence and the security of jobs and livelihoods for thousands of inhabitants of the region. This far reaching interference in Poland's economic life must be questioned. The Polish government did not fully justify the fact that the possible interruption of the work by the Turów complex would lead to a collapse of the supply of electricity to the Polish economy. I appeal to the Polish Government to engage in substantive discussions with the Czech party in order to reach a common compromise on the issue of the Turów mine. The dispute between Poland and the Czech Republic has already been publicised throughout Europe. The way Poland reacts to this hurtful decision will be a measure of evaluation of our country's diplomacy. All my professional life, I've been involved in the mining and energy sector. I know perfectly well the mechanisms of this market. I know very well what geological, economic, environmental conditions the Turov mine works under. I declare that I declare help and support for all who are at heart of calm and conflict-free work of the mines and power plants of Turów in order to resolve the dispute with the Czech Republic. The objective is one - to develop optimal solutions to safeguard the operation of the Turów complex as an essential element of the national energy system in line with the plans adopted many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u40	Thank you very much for your statement. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The inhabitants of Sępólna Krajeńskie in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and the towns between Sępólno and Bydgoszcz were surprised in April this year. news about the suspension by PKS Chojnice of all bus connections from Chojnice to Bydgoszcz by the district of Sępoleński. Thus, these residents were deprived of the only means of transport to the administrative capital of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, to specialist hospitals in Bydgoszcz, including hospitals and services which are not available in the Sępolenski district, i.e. to pulmonology, infectious hospital or oncology hospital. The residents were deprived of access to the provincial office and were deprived of access to the airport. Disgusted by the situation, the residents wrote a petition to the Marshal of the Voivodship to restore these connections. The county self-governments also called on the marshal to take on the role of organizer of inter-national collective transport and apply for a grant from the Bus Transport Development Fund of a public service nature. Unfortunately, the marshal refused locals and residents who once again felt deprived of the power's ability to communicate and were deprived of transport. As a Member also elected by the inhabitants of the Sępolenski district, I ask the government to use all possible means and programs of government to restore the bus connections between Sępóln Krajński and Bydgoszcz and to take care of them as well as other communication links in other parts of our country. I appeal to the Minister of Infrastructure, to the entire government for real, not just propaganda and facade action to stop, among others. such exclusion of communication. It is strange that the government, which established the Polish Space Agency for the purpose of national space conquest, which is building the largest airport in Europe, cannot effectively handle such a simple matter as ensuring that residents from the village can be transported to the village. Therefore, on behalf of the inhabitants of the Sępolenski district, I once again appeal to the government for such measures to ensure that the inhabitants of the county (Dzwonek) of the Sępolenski bus connection between Sępóln Krajński and Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. And private companies don't open microbuses...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u42	Dear Member, we are not discussing this. If you'd like to speak, please come to the podium. In the meantime, I ask you to make a statement by Mr Sławomir Skwark, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year it is exactly 475 years since King Zygmunt gave the old town Stoczek Łukowski the location privilege. This was probably the case on April 4, 1546. Historically, Stoczek is located in the Czersk region in Mazowsze, geographically - in Wysoczyzno Żelechowska, and administratively is currently a commune in the Łuków district in the north-western part of Lublin Voivodeship, one of the smallest communes in Poland. Currently, there are about 2700 inhabitants in Stochek who are proud of the history of their city. The village wore several names, among others. Poznan Wola, Sebastianowo. Since the 17th century it has been known by its current name. In its history, after the loss of independence, the city was under Austrian partition, in the Duchy of Warsaw, in the Kingdom of Poland and then under the Russian partition. In 1867, as part of the repression after the fall of the January Uprising, Stoczek was deprived of urban rights. He recovered it in 1916. Stoczek Łukowski is known primarily for the first victorious battle of the November Uprising. The Polish troops under the command of General Józef Dwernicki destroyed the Russian corps of Gen. Geismar. Aleksander Świętochowski, writer, publicist, critic, ideologist, conservative of the positivism era was born in Stochek on January 18, 1849. During the interwar period there were the largest horse fairs in Poland and one of the largest in Europe. You could say that I feel sorry for those horse fairs. Currently, the most important cultural event is organized by the Sejmicz Rural Theatre Teams, and the sports course - which has been taking place since 2001 - is the main street run of the Stoczki cannon. In connection with the anniversary of the city council, in cooperation with the institutions and social partners, he prepared a series of events to bring about events related to the history of the city. The city council will hold a formal session on 12 June. In September, a celebration was planned for Stokka's Day with a cock in the coat of arms, and on November 29th, the party was planned. The Echo of the Battle of Stokzkie. In connection with the anniversary of granting city law to the inhabitants of the castle with cock, city fight and weapons, I wish the local authorities a bold vision of development, the realization of intentions always based on history, culture and tradition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice, will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My speech will concern the Polish Tourist Bonus. This is a program and a tool that, in President Andrzej Duda's election campaign, sounded out loud. This program was supposed to last for two years. The work in this programme is due to end in 2022, in March. See that recently, when it comes to the coronacrisis, the coronavirus has attacked so seriously that all tourist units have been turned off, at least for hotels that were supposed to receive funding from which more than 6 million children would benefit. Here this program will not fully meet the expectations of Polish citizens, because it can only last for a year. In this case, I sent an interview to your Deputy Prime Minister, Jarosław Gowin, because he is responsible for the resort, which could change this bill. On the other hand, I also requested support for President Andrzej Duda, because I know that this was a very important point in his election campaign. I think that this situation, with regard to the extension of this voucher until at least 2023, until March, may cause us to extend the possibility of benefiting from this benefit. Now citizens come to the Members' Offices and ask if they are able to benefit from this gift only on this holiday and during the winter break, if there is a possibility of renewal so that everyone can benefit. I think, as the government said, as the president said, 6 million children will benefit from this bonus of PLN 500. So that during this speech I ask Mr Gowin to lean on this program, to extend this program. I also ask President Andrzej Duda to agree to a positive recommendation so that this project can function a year longer in order to extend the implementation of this project. I also ask for the support of Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, who is the youth adviser to the President, was a member of the 8th term of office of the Sejm. I hope that this year we will be able to amend the bill, we will be able to revise the programme so that we can extend this tourist voucher to the children by 2023. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u46	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u47	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Referring to my speech in the Seym on 2 March Ub. I again appeal to the authorities of the Republic of Poland, representatives of the government and parliament, to take courageous and decisive action to properly honor the soldiers of the cursed Polish Army who were faithful to their homeland to the end, and to all those who died in the fight for free and independent Poland. I call upon the environment with the special care of all places shed with blood and marked by the suffering of soldiers of the anti-communist underground. Their attackers should be clearly pointed out and, if possible, prosecuted as well. Supporting efforts to seek historical truth and discover places of secret burial of victims of the communist regime should be our commitment. The heroes of the nation should return to the cards of Polish history with a name. Their remains must be taken from nameless pits, identified and deposited with their honors in a worthy place. An unselfish example of delaying actions and lack of courageous decisions is the matter of the Ł Cemetery of the Military Cemetery in Warsaw Powązki. From this place I appeal and ask that the place of secret burials in the territory of the Military Cemetery in Powązki, the premises of the Ł, become a true national pantheon of memory. It is time for there to be a monument of memory and gratitude for the sacrifice, harm and suffering suffered by Polish defenders to be worthy of free and independent Poland. The area of the link is almost directly adjacent to the monument and tombs of the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. One of the well-deserved avenues begins there. This makes this part of the cemetery the main place of many celebrations and a permanent, mandatory point of many tours and history lessons. A new main gate built from the south-west side should be added to this place and the future national memorial site. After it was crossed by every visitor of this place, starting a tour, he could first bow his head to those who were to be forgotten by the will of communist power by the Polish government. As a nation, we owe our heroes special gratitude and systematic care of their graves and, in cases of insult, effective protection of symbols and defence of memory, including by legal means. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The reasons for possible difficulties and difficulties in achieving these objectives should be addressed without delay, both in terms of legislation and in terms of implementation. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u48	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Eve Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u49	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 27 May 1990 the first municipal elections took place in Poland in several decades. At the same time, they were the first fully free elections in the Third Republic. Poland has one of the longest traditions of local government in Europe. It is worth recalling that already in the Middle Ages there was a system of local authorities and seymists. The system played an important role in the functioning of the country at that time. The continuity of the existence of local government was broken with the fall of the Republic of Poland in 1795. After regaining independence, practically immediately measures were taken to rebuild the structures of the local government. In 1918, by decree of the head of state of Józef Piłsudski, local government was established, and in the following years - municipal and district authorities. After the war, the communist authorities briefly restored the local government, but with the ongoing Sovietisation of the political system, it began to be liquidated. In March 1950, the local government ceased to exist. National councils took his place. The operation of the new system contradicted the ideas of self-government. 27 May 1990 The Poles chose their representatives for city councils and municipalities. Many of my colleagues in the Sejm have experience working in local governments. It's the same for me. Working in the local government is now helping me with my parliamentary mandate. We should not forget that the local government operates within the state. Self-government is a local community that has received far-reaching decision-making powers in matters that directly concern it, but it is important to remember that these decisions are fully responsible. Local government units carry out tasks commissioned by the public administration and carry out their own tasks, which are important for communities of the municipality, city or voivodship. Importantly, these tasks must not be of national character and importance. Both the first and the second tasks require considerable funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from self-government and government support. I wish all self-governments the satisfaction of working for their local communities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u50	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Mariusz Goska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u51	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The opposition has been living for 2 days on a heated topic related to the presidential election in May Ub. Mr. Pretext and opportunity to do so are the last statements of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Marian Banasi. From this point of view it is worth recalling, hearing these media statements, that it was the opposition who claimed that elections should not take place in May, but in autumn. Boris Budka was supposed to have expertise that indicated that the pandemic would be decreasing in the autumn. As she was growing, we all saw very well: we were at the top of the disease. I heard Boris Budka had expertise in this area. He never introduced them. It was about switching candidates. We all know that, because that's what happened later. It was the duty of the state authorities to hold elections for the office of President within a constitutional time limit. The actions were taken precisely in this direction by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and by the Government of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska and the Agreement. After all, we all know very well that the President's office cannot remain unattended, even for legislative reasons. It's not enough, you have to remember that we were in a special time. It was a time of madness. The COVID has removed jobs, and entrepreneurs have fallen very often. The legislative process was crucial here and, after all, at the end of the legislative process, it goes to the President. How could action be taken in such a way that the President's office should be unincarcerated, and this position should be a vacancy position? On the other hand, as far as information is concerned about this notification of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber is concerned, it is worth noting here, and the Minister of Justice, Prosecutor General Zbigniew Ziobro, has said in this regard that such notification has already been recognised. Of course, if there are new circumstances, everyone has the right to make another such notification, but I would ask politicians - because it is the independent authorities of the prosecution that decide whether to recognise such requests and to issue final substantive decisions - to mediaally not to put up early, not to formulate so far-reaching conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u52	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to make a statement by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u53	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, less than 3000 applications for international protection were submitted in Poland. It was received by 400 people, including only 81 Belarusians. Unfortunately, these figures do not include the kidnapped and unjustly arrested Roman Protasiewicz. Why was the Polish Foreign Office bragging that it gave him asylum when it didn't really give it to him? Why are you lying to me like that? You don't respect refugees, even as heroes like Roman Protasiewicz, heroes who, without any support, could create a center of independent information and who pay the highest price for criticizing the dictator. It is much easier, as it is today in the Parliament hall, to adopt a resolution than to really help the Belarusians. How is it possible that one president of the ruling party protects 40 policemen around the clock, and yet he does nothing important, and people who risk themselves and fight against the regime for a free homeland, who often face criminal threats, do not provide Polish protection? By the way, as Prime Minister Kaczyński is so afraid, maybe he shouldn't be responsible for the safety of others. It happened that for Belarusians and Belarusians, little Lithuania becomes a good mother, and Poland, like a stepmother, cannot love them and feel sorry for them in human terms. After all, these people want to work with us, pay taxes, learn, and every case they try to settle involves a lot of bureaucracy and I'll be in line for hours at the office. How many more diamonds must be lost on Poland's land, fought in Belarusian detentions for life and their free country, so that we can start mass sheltering and supporting our brothers and sisters from the East and show them understanding? Long live free Belarus!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u54	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Michael Urbaniak to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am going out with an appeal to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Prime Minister Gliński and to the Secretary of State of Mr Jarosław Sellin. Almost 40 years ago, the inhabitants of Pruszka Gdansk, together with the parish priests of the Uplifting of the Holy Cross, demanded the return of the Antwerp altar from 1550, which is now in the collections of the National Museum in Warsaw as a wing altar, a triptych from this parish. The work was created in the 16th century. It was made by Colijn de Coter. The altar is one of the most important things, one of the most important symbols, monuments of painting and Dutch sculpture in Poland. It is an important part of the culture and history of Pruscz Gdański. Even in the time of the commune, in 1982, it was decided that this altar should return to Prusz. In 1990 this decision was upheld by the then Minister of Culture and Art, Ms Isabella Cywińska. She recommended the Museum Director to return as a matter of urgency. Unfortunately, this command was not executed, while both from the parish and the city the conditions imposed were met. The situation is unsolved. In 1945 the altar was transferred to the National Museum in Warsaw, but as a deposit, i.e. it had at the request of the owner, or parish, to return to a specific place. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. In 2016, because the case continues, as I said, for a very long time, the Senator of the Republic of Poland Mr Antoni Szymański, notabene then also from the ruling party, asked about it and learned that on the basis of communist decrees there is no possibility that this altar would return to Prusz, that it became the property of the National Museum in Warsaw. This is a certain kuriozum, because for the last 70 years such records - we are talking about the bill on abandoned and German assets from 1958 e.g. - did not concern churches which were taken over after 1945 by Catholic clergymen. This altar is important to Prusz, so I appeal to the ministers to finally return to the proper parish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u56	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice, will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have today's statement on the card. Stefan Wyszyński on the 40th anniversary of his death. It's been 40 years since the Cardinals died today. Stefan Wyszyński. I am glad that the Sejm appointed him as one of the patrons of 2021. The Primate of the Millennium was a prominent spiritual leader, professor of canonical law, field chaplain of the soldiers of the Home Army, twice participant in the conclave, organizer of the pilgrimages of John Paul II to Poland and celebrations of the millennium of Polish baptism. He participated in all the sessions of the Second Vatican Council. Arrested by the communist authorities and interned for 3 years, he developed a program for the renewal of religious life in Poland contained in the idea of Jasna Góra's Vows of the Nation. The cardinal's beatification will take place on 12 September 2021 in Warsaw. Cardinal. Wyszynski left behind a great legacy. He understood that faith and Polishness cannot be separated from one another. He was one of the creators of social change, which led to the fall of communism in Poland. Peace of his soul. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u58	Thank you very much, sir. I now invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u59	Mr. Marshal! I think I'm gonna take that mask off 'cause there's no one in the O.R. anymore. Mr. Speaker! You're doing this on your own responsibility. I can't say yes to that. Thank you very much. Well, I would like to state that I do not agree with the way in which the Sejm dealt with the very important issue of the kidnapping of the aircraft by the regime of his Excellency Alexander Lukashenka. It was an act completely unheard of these days. I don't think anything like that's happened since the war. Yes, the Americans once blocked the flight that they suspected was Snowden, but they didn't send any fighters, they just prevented the flight over France and Italy. Well, this extraordinary thing was connected by the Sejm with a whole bunch of things that had nothing to do with it, with the treatment of oppositionists by the Lukashenka regime, with the praise of some oppositionists, who, incidentally, for Polish money lied about various things. Not everyone had to agree. Of course, this kind of feat of the Lukashenka regime must be severely punished. For example, I propose that all state aircraft and trucks, vehicles of the Belarusian state, are simply controlled in each country for several hours in terms of whether or not they contain e.g. bombs. If something like this were done, then the regime might have learned something. However, making statements that are not necessarily consistent with each other, making thousands of words does not change anything. Lukashenka's regime survived no longer such statements. After all, it's not to have a chat, it's to have this kind of action punished, because if this type of action is not punished very severely, tomorrow the regime of his excellency, Santa Maduro, will kidnap the plane from Brazil to Colombia, Israel will kidnap the plane from Egypt to Lebanon, and Poland, as it goes well, will kidnap the plane from Germany to Ukraine and we will continue to kidnap it all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about condemning this particular act and we did not do it, and for that we put people, like me, in a stupid situation, because I condemn this particular act, but I do not necessarily share other parts in this long, long announced declaration. What was I supposed to do? Was I supposed to leave the room? Sit down? Because of the acclamation, that's not the way to do it. Such acts must be made decisively, clearly and clearly, so that we know what is going on. And it was about damning the kidnapping of the plane. Unfortunately, it wasn't visible after the Seym statement. It died in a crowd of normal, banal words that have already been uttered in this room and in other halls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u60	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u61	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the May Day of the Local Government, which is at the same time the Day of the Local Government, I wish all present and former local officials: officials, councillors, staff of cultural centres, schools, kindergartens, social workers and employees of organizational units. I wish you every success in representing and realizing the interests and needs of the inhabitants, the satisfaction of working for the local community, many further successes and new ambitious challenges. Your commitment and hard work contribute to increased local development and the construction of civil society. I would like to express my sincere thanks for your efforts and your dedication to our society and wish you all success. May your efforts always be noticed and appreciated by the inhabitants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-28-sejm-30-4.u62	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 30th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm scheduled for 15 June 2021 will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Are we still in session on June 15th? Yes, sir. We're adjourned. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 16 min 48]]
