ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and means of communication together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 10.30, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 11, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 11, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 12, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12.30, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 13, - Legally, at about an hour. 13.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - at hours. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 17, - Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 18. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to an important communication now. The Sejm Office reminds us of the planned introduction of dual-component authentication in the e-mail seym system from 17 December 2021. Members who have not yet received or configured the tokens are asked to report to the lower smoking room. The consultative posts shall be open until the end of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u2	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. The first proposal, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For 100, maybe 200,000. Polish families coming Christmas will be very sad. There will be grief, there will be tears, there will be memories of those who, unfortunately, will be missing at Christmas table. To this day, more than 88 thousand died because of the pandemic. Poles, and at the same time there were about 140 thousand. excessive deaths. The dead may have had political views, but they did not die as supporters of one party or another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles, citizens, died fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, wives and husbands, daughters and sons. We will not bring them back to life, nor will we reduce the grief that comes from their absence, but we can make a gesture of respect for the dead and show the warmth of their distraught relatives. That's the minimum we can and should do. The gestures, including these symbolic gestures, are important for individual people and for our entire national community. They are always important, but in this pre-Christmas time they are both necessary and necessary. We must bow before the dead and embrace the thoughts of our grieving compatriots. We can afford it. In fact, it's our moral and just human duty. I have a deep conviction that everyone here That's what we understand and feel. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask that we bow low to the dead and to those who mourn them. Let us surround them with sincere prayer or heartfelt thought. Thank you very much. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Amen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u4	Thank you. Here you go, with a formal request from Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that Mr Morawiecki adjourn to stand before the Poles in the truth for once and tell them how he ruined them for Christmas. We know that inflation and expensive prices are in your hands, because then the government's wallets swell and they lose Polish families. [[Applause]] [[Part of the Members get up and show the pages with the inscription: PiS = expensive]] I call you, Prime Minister... I know you were a banker, but I'm calling you to lean over those who count down a penny. Lean over Polish pensioners - those who collect starvation pensions, there are over 300,000. - over a single mother who was allowed to buy 30 eggs for 8 zlotys in a popular discount six years ago, and now buys them for 16 zlotys. It's your responsibility. The shield's not working. You guys made it happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u6	Thank you very much. As a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Just a moment.]] [[It's not working.]] Who doesn't it work with? [[Voices from the O.R.: It works, it works.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: What's going on with you two?]] It's working, thank you. 421 Members voted. 196 - for, 220 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to close the session until both the marshal and Prime Minister Morawiecki present the full information with whom and in what manner we are proceeding in the Chamber. Is Masha with us or isn't he with us? Where's Majza? On leave from responsibilities? [[Applause]] Because there's already nothing on vacation, we know that. [[Member, are you kidding me?]] Prime Minister! I'm asking for an explanation of political corruption, because offering government positions in exchange for a vote on the budget or the muzzle of the Black Man, this is an absolute scandal. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Are you serious?]] Mrs. Marshal! It's about information when Masa makes a statement of property, how he's the only member who doesn't have the rules, a statement of property, reliable, true, telling us where a guy with debts has a lot of money... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Are you serious?]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u8	Thank you, Member. Mrs Mejza has made a statement... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs... [[But don't yell.]] You're not from saying which is properly complex and which is not. That's what the Board of Ethics and CBA are for. [[Member Anita Kucharska-Heir: Marshal...]] In addition, Commissioner, you have made an irregular request because we are considering the budget at this meeting of the Sejm in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Why are you defending Masha? Why are you defending Masha?]] When the budget is considered, the Sejm cannot be closed. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. [[A voice from the hall: Why are you so full of crap?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was the 40th anniversary of martial law. [[And Gregory doesn't have a mask again?]] It is a good fact for your marshal to take out the drawer and put to the vote a request from the Confederation that the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm call off the PZPR officer, the soviet army glorifier, and at the same time a man who disgraced the High House during the parliamentary debate... [[Terletsky.]] [[Hawk, there's a question for you.]] ...hanging a new symbol of the left, the rainbow left, in the place where your marshal is sitting and running his deliberations at the moment. [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Come down or they'll take you down.]] This is a good time, ladies and gentlemen, to put the Confederate's motion for an appeal from the function of Deputy Marshal of the Sejm of Vladimir the Charzasty to the vote. [[Applause]] Forty years after martial law, it is necessary for this House to fall very strongly also through actions, and not only through words: away with communion, with leftyness, away with lefty and old and new. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He found himself...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u10	Thank you, sir. Since this was not a formal proposal, I will not put it to the vote. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The yeast destroys the wallets of Poles and Poles. These actions, which the government and the majority take, are insufficient, too shallow and will not change anything. Specialists say that what you have proposed is not worth... is not what Poles need, and Poles today need real support. Specialists say inflation's gonna stay with us for a while. You're misleading citizens. Tell the truth: How long will the price stay with Poles, this expensive one which today destroys the wallets of Poles? But I would also like to ask what happened to our project to suspend the levy, the fee that the PiS government introduced and which unfortunately means higher fuel prices. You guys rejected this project at the committee meeting. And, Mrs. Marshal, I am asking for a break until this good project (the bell) of Poland 2050 goes to session... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u12	Thank you, sir. You can't decide that, but we can decide on a break now. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 194 - for, 221 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. And the last motion, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear, dear Civic Platform, full of hypocrisy! After all, a few days ago you voted against the fight of the Polish government... [[Voice from the hall: Shut up!]] ...about low energy and heat prices, and now you're talking about expensive. The yeast in the European Union has the face of Donald Tusk and the European People's Party. You are responsible for the high prices of energy and heat. [[Applause]] And show Donald Tusk these pictures. Speaking of Donald Tusk, ladies and gentlemen, read a piece of my book about Donald Tusk... [[Get down!]] ...about your pro-Russian politics... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...because it was you who moved Poland east in 2010, you wanted to concrete Russian gas by 2037. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members chant: "Drożyzna! I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. I'll be right back.]] Read about how President Jarosław Kaczyński in September 2010 caused that we did not extend the contract with Putin until 2037. It is Donald Tusk who is the most proputinist prime minister of the Third Republic of Poland. Read it, even though I know you don't read very many books. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the gym: Chairman got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u14	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the Government's draft budget law for 2022 (prints 1624 and 1819). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee. [[Does he have the president of this staff?]] [[Voice from the hall: Hey, give it to me.]] [[I hear he's got a lot of time right now, but he can't read.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u15	My dear Miss Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Draft Budget Law for 2022. The first reading of this project took place on 14 October this year. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I am so sorry. I'll take a moment, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important budgetary debate, which is why I ask all Members who have other activities to leave the plenary room as quickly as possible so that they can present a report. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Just a moment, sir, just a moment. The first reading of this project... Sir, just a moment, sir. I would very much like to ask Members to leave the room smoothly, because this is an important debate. Let us allow him to present a report. Please, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal. The first reading of this project took place on 14 October this year. On 30 September, the government of the Republic of Poland passed the bill to the Sejm, after which, in accordance with the article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance to submit a report by 3 December this year. The Committee on Public Finances considered the draft, following a timetable adopted by the Sejm Bureau, and the result of this work is presented the report contained in the Seym printing No 1819. The draft budget law for 2022 was prepared under conditions of uncertainty and the existence of a risk of unfavorable economic developments over the next few years. However, the European Commission's latest autumn 2021 forecast assumes a 5.2% increase in gross domestic product for Poland next year. In the project, the government assumed an increase of 4.6. However, as economic growth will eventually develop next year, it is still unclear, because it is difficult to predict not only the development of the pandemic, but also the responses of governments and entrepreneurs from different countries, including in particular our main trading partners. It is also difficult to predict developments beyond our eastern border. The budget presented by the government assumes that in 2022 the general government deficit will be 2,9% GDP, i.e. below the 3% reference value GDP as defined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in Article. Article 126 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The European Commission's latest forecast shows that this deficit could be lower and could represent 1.8% GDP. The government also assumes government and local government debt of 56,6% GDP and the Commission's latest forecast indicates a lower volume of 51% GDP. It can therefore be concluded that Polish public finances adequately respond to the current difficult situation after the COVID-19 pandemic and should not be a threat to socio-economic development in the longer term. The government assumed a 3.3% increase in consumer goods and services prices for 2022. This increase may be slightly higher - according to the European Commission's latest forecast is estimated for Poland at 5.2% , for the European Union at 2.5%. The draft budget law for 2022 meets the requirements of the Public Finance Act concerning in particular the application of the revised periodically stabilising expenditure rule. The amount of expenditure for 2022 has been increased by 1/3 of the projected financial impact on revenue and expenditure arising from discretionary actions directly directed at halting and combating the effects of the epidemic in 2020 and directly supporting the affected entities. In addition, the amount of expenditure for 2022 took into account the updates made so far and the effects of the new discretionary measures on taxes and social security contributions. In the draft budget submitted to the Sejm for 2022, the government adopted revenue amounting to 481 436 950 thousand. PLN and expenditure in the amount higher, 512 361 550 thousand. Evil, which results in... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Minister, I'm so sorry. May I ask Members to silence their conversations? Thank you very much, Marshal. ... resulting in the adoption of a government budget deficit of 30 924 600 000. zł, i.e. representing 1,1% GDP. Revenues will be nominally lower by 0,3% and really by 3.5% for 2021 In addition, their relationship to GDP is to be significantly reduced by 1.4 percentage points, from 19.1%. 17.7%. Such a reduction in budget revenue is due first to the loss of non-tax revenue, by PLN 23.3 billion, i.e. 41.9% , and secondly, the reform of the tax system, which is to result in inter alia. less by PLN 4.2 billion the collection of personal income tax, PIT. State budget expenditure for 2022 will, on the other hand, be 2.1% lower - lower than the expected implementation of budget expenditure in the current year. The Government's draft budget law for 2022 provided funds, among others.: to finance the 500+ family programme; to implement the government's commitment to increase expenditure on health finance to 5,75% in 2022 GDP; for the valorisation of pension benefits from 1 March 2022, the rate of state valorisation at 104.89%; for the financing of tasks under the Solidarity Fund and for the implementation of family benefits with an increase in the amount of care provision from 1 January next year; for the financing of defence needs of the Republic of Poland at 2.2% GDP; to finance tasks in the area of housing, land transport: road infrastructure; to implement multiannual programmes in the maritime economy; to implement investments in the area of culture and national heritage protection, including the reconstruction of the Saski Palace and the Brühl Palace; to finance tasks in the area of agriculture, including aid for agricultural and livestock insurance, combating infectious animal diseases, aid for agricultural fuel. The draft budget for 2022 was developed in order to secure the financial resources necessary for the continuation of the government's previous priorities in the field of socio-economic policy pursued by the government. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to bring forward the detailed work of the Committee on Public Finances, which took place in the first reading and led to the preparation of a report on the work of this committee. The Committee on Public Finances discussed its own budgetary parts at its meetings. In addition, it considered the views of the other Sejm committees within the scope set by the Marshal of the Sejm of 13 October 2021. During the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, opinions were presented on the sections of the budget discussed by representatives of other committees and members of the Committee on Finance. Members presented the most important information from discussions at meetings of other committees. Members were particularly interested, among others. issues relating to the macroeconomic assumptions of the budget, including inflation, deficit and public debt, and employment and wage levels in different entities. As regards the work of the other committees to which the draft budget law was addressed, it should be pointed out that the Sejm committees have submitted a total of 25 opinions to the Public Finance Commission. These were positive opinions. Only two opinions of the committee contain amendments. Part of the committee's opinion was accompanied by separate opinions, with 32 in total. I will briefly describe the amendments to the draft budget law for the next year. A total of 599 amendments were tabled. The 132 amendments concerned the revenue of the State budget, as set out in Annex 1, and indicated the need to raise tax revenue, excise duty and duty on goods and services in order to finance specific expenditure. 456 amendments concerned State budget expenditure. These amendments referred to the reduction of expenditure, inter alia. Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court, National Council of Radiophony and Television, Institute of National Remembrance, Ministry of Justice, Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, Church Fund, as well as expenses provided for national defence, the service of the Treasury debt and special provisions. In the vote held at the committee meeting on 2 December, 55 amendments were accepted by the committee. The Commission did not accept 544 amendments, the vast majority of which were re-notified as minority proposals - 498 of which were included in the committee report. The Commission did not accept all these amendments, which the Government representative expressed a negative opinion on. It should be pointed out that these amendments did not have a significant impact on the overall size of the State budget, as the total amount of revenue and expenditure of the State budget has not changed. This opinion concerns those amendments that have been adopted and not all the amendments that have been tabled. It can be noted that the expenditure of certain entities with budgetary autonomy has been reduced, including: the Senate Registry - by 7%, which is mainly due to the fact that by PLN 10 million the expenditure planned for carrying out the tasks of care for Polish people and Poles abroad has been reduced, as expenditure for this purpose has been included in another part of the budget; the Supreme Court - by 5%; the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court - by 4%; the State Labour Inspection - by 3%; the Institute of National Remembrance, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman - by 1%. The expenditure of the general courts and the expenditure included in the special provisions has also been reduced by 3%. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I have tried to convey this report in the form that is as short as possible and as disciplined as possible. I would like to thank all the Members who participated in the work of the thematic committees and the work of the Committee on Public Finance. I would like to thank the referents, the kodeferents, for their good preparation. I must say that the work on this budget in the finance committee has been extremely efficient. Thank you for the atmosphere of this work. This can be proved by the fact that these almost 600 amendments have been voted out, I think, in a very good time. First of all, according to your wishes, we were able to deliver a report on our work at the right time, respecting the timetable. I would also like to thank all representatives of government institutions, constitutional institutions for their preparation and their substantive contribution to the debate. I would like to thank all those who have taken an active part in this debate. Well, it remains to me that the Committee on Public Finances, after considering the draft budget law for 2022, together with the positions forwarded by the relevant committees, requests the adoption of the attached draft budget law for 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u16	Thank you very much. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 49 and 4 minutes, i.e. short-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! What can be said about the budget that has been said so much already? It is a document which, as every year, is a signpost for business, for people, for administration, for all social and professional groups, for industry groups. It also reflects the state's finances. This year, or actually the year 2022 referred to in this Budget Act, we are faced with the challenges of a very unstable market economy. Today people in Poland are most interested in several topics. According to social studies, it is a matter of internal security, but also of border security. This budget once again responds to these expectations - by having 2,2% expenditure on the army, on arms, on salaries for uniformed services, for the army. At first reading, our club has tabled an amendment which will allow us to allocate over PLN 1 billion for the modernisation of these services. It is those who serve today and work hard on our eastern border. I think this is a good signal for all these people, saying that the Sejm of the Republic, Members, MPs think of them an hour after an hour and day after day. Another topic that is very concerned with our citizens in relation to the COVID pandemic is health. Here, the good news that the government has prepared regarding the draft budget is the issue of increasing health expenditure. I would remind you that as we took over power, the NFZ implemented a budget of 71 billion. Today it is 132 billion PLN. We are implementing this budget not without obstacles, because COVID has caused an increase in external factors that translate into an increase in inflation. This is not only a serious problem in the countries of Wednesday Europe, including Poland. This problem is also affecting powers such as the United States, where inflation after November is 6,8% countries like Germany, our immediate neighbours. There, inflation has been high for 30 years, and in the United States, inflation has been high for 40 years. Of course, the government is preparing a protective package, an anti-inflationary package. Today we already know that the amount of support will be at least PLN 10 billion. We will act courageously and respond flexibly to the needs of our society, especially those of the less affluent, whom we will try to give basis to operate. Let us not forget, too, that by reducing excise duty, fuel levy, VAT in this anti-inflationary package, we are making everyone who works in the transport industry today, but also the owners of companies, all of whom will benefit from this State aid. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is to be implemented under conditions of uncertain supply and drastic increase in world prices of energy, raw materials, electricity, gas, oil, freight. We know that in particular these energy carriers translate into an increase in inflation, which is, nothing to hide, severe. What is the answer to this budget for those who want optimism who care about the future? We do not inhibit growth, we do not inhibit wage growth, we increase pensions, we increase pensions. [[Voice from the room: Inflation is rising.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have constructed this budget, closing it with a small deficit and not selling out Polish family silvers, we do not sell out Polish companies, and our predecessors have done so almost every time. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're not holding back the investment. Polish Load is the amount of more than PLN 100 billion, which is now powered by the funds of local government units - there are huge expenditures on municipal infrastructure at the discretion of local authorities, according to the priorities that they set themselves. We maintain social expenses, we maintain the 500+ program, the good start program, the baby+ programme, we maintain benefits for the ladies who gave birth to four and more children. I mentioned the army's expenditure on arms. When it comes to health, we implement social agreements - the amount allocated to health expenditure is 5.75% GDP. We're protecting jobs. Do you know how much we spent in the COVID year protecting these jobs? We know it's harder to recreate jobs than to keep them. We want to reduce unemployment and we have reduced unemployment by a million people compared to our predecessors. At the same time, we raise the tax-free amount to 30,000. zł. We keep zero PITs for young people up to 26 years old, many of them don't go abroad because they have to pay for living where they get a job. But we also maintain a reduced PIT tax for all, for 26 million Poles, up to 17%, please don't forget that. Other parts of the budget will be discussed in detail by my colleagues in the framework of the debate of the time for the club Law and Justice, and I do not want to play their part. But we increase subsidies for local governments from PLN 51.3 billion to PLN 72 billion, spending on education - even though students in relation to the time when the state ruled, when the opposition ruled, lost about PLN 1 million in schools - we increase from PLN 40 billion to PLN 53,4 billion. I would like to refer, ladies and gentlemen, also to the strongly discussed issue of debt. The debt of the public finance sector in 2015 amounted to PLN 877 billion, last year amounted to PLN 1111 billion, we do not hide these amounts. On the issue, I am talking about 2020, government debt, it was 923 billion and at the end of 2020 - 1336 billion PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have led to the fact that the share of currencies in our credit obligations has fallen below 25% and this debt is freed from this risk factor of exchange rate differences, which has been a nightmare for decades in the financing of public debt. General government debt will be 56,6% GDP, although, as I read in the Commission's report, we can be optimistic that it will be a little smaller. We want registered unemployment to fall from 6 to 5.9%. Budgetary wage growth will be 4.4% and the prize fund will be launched - 3%. Average salary in the national economy will be PLN 5922, minimum salary - PLN 3010 and minimum hourly rate - 19.7 zł. I'm not gonna remind you how long it's been. Ladies and gentlemen! These elements that have allowed the sustainable budget that we brought in 2020 are bearing fruit today. It produces reform of the National Tax Administration, customs sealing of the border, introduction of SENT 1, SENT 2, SENT 3, boldly introducing the regulations contained in the Act on Auditors, audit firms, introduction of audit committees, separation of the possibility of providing advisory and audit services by the same large entities. Without control, without the involvement of the National Tax Administration controllers, we can count on a higher revenue to the state budget. I am proud to say one thing: I support the Government of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. I am proud to stress one fact that the postulates recorded then by the trade unionists in Gdańsk Shipyard on the board, which entered the UNESCO World Heritage List, have never been carried out in such a broad way, reflecting social sensitivity as in the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] I want to say it proudly, and I don't think anyone can find any arguments to deny it. But there is another element that we plowed and changed dramatically: benefits for a family without income. I think those who created this board at the time did not even think that such preferences would be directed from the state to every citizen. We come with a budget that will support economic growth and give a real chance for a decent life for every Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u18	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Noblekhta. [[But Mrs Leszczyn.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Oh, I'm so sorry, sir. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u19	Thank you, Marshal. In fact, in this equation, you could... [[Applause]] Yes, this equation shows all of your next year's budget - the pro-inflationary budget, the budget unbalanced and finally the facade budget. Yesterday there was a debate in the free democratic Senate on the transparency of public finances, a debate that could not be held in the Seym managed by Marshal Witek. There were three former finance ministers, one from the PiS government, five former deputy finance ministers. Everyone is deeply concerned about spending outside the budget and lack of control over public money, lack of control of the Sejm and lack of control of public opinion. In the context of lack of transparency, in the context of the faculty of this budget confirmed by the Supreme Audit Chamber, it seems reasonable to ask whether it is worth talking about this residual part of public finances at all. Because, in fact, we're only misleading public opinion. Why is the budget facaded, unbalanced and pro-inflationary? Because the macroeconomic indicators in this project are taken from the ceiling, they're like throwing a bullet in the fence. Because the budget bill has been breaking the article for several years. 219 of the Constitution, which states that the Sejm adopts the state budget for the financial year, not for two years. We will take a report on the implementation of the budget at a time when the loosening of government consumption will continue to be the best. [[Voice from the hall: Where is the Minister of Finance?]] The budget is facade, because from the expenditure limit, stabilizing the expenditure rule, you took out the COVID fund and that's all that's in BGK. It means that the stabilizing expenditure rule does not see the expenditure of the PFR, does not see the expenditure of the BGK fund. Then why do we need a rule like that? So what are we talking about here? We lied to the Poles and Poles from this platform. Why? You need it, I understand. But we're not gonna be a part of this. The minister put some left evidence into the finance rule to expand his public spending space even more. The debt outside Parliament's control, outside the budget - next year it will be PLN 350 billion. [[Applause]] How can you even speak of a low deficit? 350 billion PLN outside of budget control, and the deficit you had to report to the European Commission is 143 billion. There's the papers. Why aren't you guys talking about this here at the Parliamentary Speaker's? [[Applause]] You're still handing out bonds, handing out Kurski's TV. You know what that means? It means that the future democratic government will pay for Kurski's propaganda, for the aesthetic tastelessness of this television and for the ethical fall of propaganda television, PiS-owska. [[Applause]] This budget is out of proportion because you have 35 newly created funds: institutes, agendas for which you want to spend 40 billion PLN. The depravity of the state during the pandemic is simply immoral. Hundreds of people die every day, 0.5 thousands. People die a day, and you know how much money PiS spends on health? Attention, it's worth remembering. They're lying. They're allocating 5.75%. GDP for health. In fact, in relation to next year's GDP, but calculated on the basis of real macroeconomic indicators, not those invented by experts from NBP and the Ministry of Finance, they will allocate 4,89% to health. GDP in the second year of pandemic. [[And nominally?]] 4.89% , of which, attention, all these are actually contributions that you pay to the National Health Fund, and from the budget comes only 0.8%. [[Applause]] [[Nominally?]] [[Voice from the hall: What nominally?]] How embarrassing are you? This is why the lives of Poles have been reduced by 1.5 years during your reign. [[Applause]] [[Tough charge, oh, tough one.]] [[Your success.]] [[Voice from the room: Not fair.]] Why is this budget not yet worth taking seriously? Because PiS betrayed Poles. And betrayed Poland. They had a choice of over PLN 20 billion in advance this year and further tranches from the National Plan for Reconstruction next year to provide funds for investments and for the real well-being of citizens. They chose party courts, revenge on brave, independent judges, and the liquidation of self-government autonomy. [[Applause]] You know what it turns out now? That the Civic Coalition club was right when he wanted to put the presence of local authorities on the monitoring committee at the vote on the Reconstruction Fund. Because today it is one of the conditions of the European Commission that we should get this money at all. [[Applause]] Since we cannot rely on this money, this budget must become more investment and less destructive. If the Minister of Finance considers that the amendments tabled by Mrs Zofia Czernow will receive a positive recommendation and will be accepted, perhaps we will withdraw the proposal to reject this budget at second reading, which I will present to the marshal in a moment. This is your budget. This is 2022. [[Applause]] [[This board is an expression of your powerlessness.]] [[Voice from the room: Truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u20	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will now speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the draft budget presented is a project that has nothing to do with reality. It's a kind of fairy tale from moss and ferns that the Law and Justice government has been writing to us in the next budgets since 2015. It is a budget of chaos, it is a budget of stagnation, it is the budget of the next year of obscuration of state finances, because we have the impression that it is very good for you to move in such muddy water, but it does not bode well in terms of the economic situation, the state budget situation in 2022. There are some unrealistic assumptions that have emerged in this budget and which, you can say, disqualify this draft budget. This applies, for example, to inflation at 3.3%. After all, we are all seeing what is happening with regard to inflation this year, therefore the assumption of such a level of inflation in the budget - I know that the budget was prepared earlier - makes this budget unrealistic. Here's another thing. You are planning 86 billion funds from the European Union. The question is whether the European Union's resources will really come, because we know very well that this year there is no chance that the European Union's funds will come. This applies to the first tranche of the recovery fund. Funds from the European Union in 2022 are also in question. For the sake of clarity, you can curse reality, but it is only your fault that today we all as Poles suffer because we do not receive these funds. These internal fights, the fight against the European Union, all these things that we've been dealing with in the last few days, even if it's completely idiotic waving a saber and saying that if the Union doesn't give us, we're not going to pay, it's just not serious. And just so we're clear, we're all suffering from it. The increase in debt is planned at the level of PLN 140 billion. 140 billion PLN. I would like to remind you that with regard to the Supreme Audit Chamber and the audit carried out this year, the Supreme Audit Chamber has shown that about 290 billion PLN is spent outside the budget. [[Voice from the room: This is against the law.]] In this situation, the question arises as to the projected budgetary revenues, whether they are actually well forecasted. According to our assessment, the underestimation of tax revenues to the budget alone is at the level of PLN 30.40 billion. What does that tell you? This is due, for example, to inflation issues. I would like to remind you that, with regard to the 2022 plan, only VAT is projected to increase in real terms compared to GDP, compared to 2021 and the share of this tax is 8.6%. On the other hand, we are surprised that there is a plan to reduce income in terms of excise duty, because in this Chamber we are debating a law that raises excise duty, and therefore a horse with a row of people who can explain how excise income is to be reduced in 2022. [[Voice from the room: Lower.]] The influence of CIT is decreasing, the influence of PIT is decreasing. And this raises the question - because we remember that in the pockets of Poles, as the Prime Minister said, thanks to Polish Ład 11 billion zlotys are to remain, while PIT revenues decrease by 4 billion zlotys - who is right in this regard, or the Prime Minister in terms of the provisions of the budget law or we. We say, however, that in the case of the Polish Government we are dealing, in short, with a large fraud against Poles and Poles and it will not be so nice that the amount free of tax will actually cause less revenue to the budget. Investment is a key issue. There is no doubt that today we have the lowest growth in investment compared to GDP actually since the beginning of the transformation, that is 16%. And also in this budget - which best shows the philosophy of law and justice and government - we have a reduction in investment expenditure from 7.7% in 2021 up to 5.6% in 2022 We note that without investment there is no development, no fight against inflation, no new and sustainable jobs. The issue of investment is a key issue. If we add this great question mark to this, with regard to the European Union's resources, we have a very serious problem. As regards specific expenditure, because of course the budget deficit is planned at the level of PLN 31 billion, these expenditures are, however, of concern to us, and there is no doubt about it, because, firstly, the remuneration rate according to this provision is planned at the level of 100%. - so freezing wages. Of course, the government is declaring moves on and on the prize fund, and yet some sort of correction, but it's not enough with inflation at 7,7%. which has been recorded only this month. It's definitely not enough. As far as TV subsidies are concerned, this has already been addressed. Issues of property spending on roads, issues of subsidies to local governments... Let us just remind you, speaking of expenditure, that you have entered a development fund of PLN 11 billion for local governments. You just put it in the budget of 2021. The question arises as to why there is no continuation of this in the 2022 budget. Because this item doesn't apply to local expenditure. Investment expenditure is at the level of PLN 0.5 billion. There is a big problem at all about local governments and their functioning, and we have no doubt about it. In addition to the amendments we tabled at the committee meeting, the Left Club wants to make two more very important amendments. The first concerns the health area. You don't take this area seriously, and it's 5,6%. GDP is definitely not enough. In general, we propose an amendment which will increase the subsidy for health tasks by PLN 10 billion. The same is true when it comes to compensating local government units with tax losses of PLN 4 billion. The blackout of this budget is interestingly visible in the special reserves. You've left almost $40 billion in reserve. And what do we have in these reserves? Well, we have, for example. the provision for the increase of the appropriations for the payment of salaries to persons cancelled from management posts. So you're gonna cancel again so you can give someone some money. We have a reserve to rebuild state budget revenue - 2,3 billion PLN, provision for improvement of public finances, provision for availability of pre-school education and rightly so. The question is, why doesn't it appear in the budget? We have reserve for system changes and some organisational changes, including new tasks - 3 billion PLN. Is anyone in this room able to answer what new tasks the government wants to spend PLN 3 billion on? Fund of subsidies to finance payments in the context of social and municipal buildings - PLN 1 billion. Let me remind you that this is very important and should be included in this budget. These are the things that appear in the draft budget. 40 billion PLN in reserves alone is in our view a complete blackout of the budget and any control of these expenditures in the future. In this situation, the Left Club presents its amendments. If they are not adopted, we will vote against the budget law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Czesław Siekierski, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u23	I came so quickly, I'm asking for extra time. [[Yeah, there you go.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The changing macroeconomic conditions make the provisions of this draft budget for 2022 obsolete in many cases and will need to be revised and updated in the near future. This applies not only to the constantly increasing scale of price increases and thus the already outdated inflation projections for 2022, but also to the assumptions regarding budgetary revenues. The same is true for budgetary deficit assumptions. Much of the expenditure is out of the budget. If they were included in the budget, the budget gap would, of course, be much, much larger. The increase in interest rates is not only the increase in instalments of existing mortgage loans, but a further increase in budget expenditure on debt management. The Polish government's bonds have lost value as soon as possible for several years. I'm moving on to the Polish Deal. Polish Load is primarily a large uncertainty, chaos, complications of the tax system, a significant increase in taxes for companies and a permanent reduction in the income of local governments. So, companies and local governments. It is clear that all the changes announced in the Polish Order will be financed by the mentioned local authorities and by entrepreneurs. The negative aspect of the Polish Government is also centralization and twice mentioned by me the permanent reduction of local government revenue. The Polish Load will not only increase production costs in the production process, but also increase administrative, accounting and other costs when it comes to entrepreneurs. The increase in manufacturing costs, mainly due to the increase in fuel costs, energy costs, will translate into an increase in prices for goods and services. Yesterday I was at a meeting with entrepreneurs and some of them show fear in their eyes. They say stocking the company is a 100% increase in costs. This is the situation with regard to companies. Farmers are in a similar situation. The increase in fuel costs, but above all gas, which translates into an increase in fertiliser prices, is two - three times. This is all a threat to full production next year. All consumers will pay for the increase in living costs. There was talk of expensive. It is all the more felt that Christmas is coming. Anti-inflationary package, cover package. The 10 billion mentioned by your president is much, much too little. Finally, we need to think about how we could not reach, how we could not use EU money under the National Reconstruction Plan, which was on the table, were available. All you needed was good will. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget isn't just numbers. The budget is the living conditions of Polish families. Let's think about the poorest ones. That's one thing. Secondly, yesterday, one of the voters during the conversation says: Mr, there is nothing to live for. He realized that he had put it this way, and he says, "I ask you what to live for." I am asking this question on behalf of this voter, and I think, on behalf of millions of voters, I also address to the Prime Minister: What to live for? It is difficult to support such a budget in such a situation. Therefore, we propose as the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party amendments. We want to allocate, increase resources for the creation of a special reserve for a national program for the extension of hospitals - 5 billion. We know the situation in hospitals, especially in county hospitals, but not only. Secondly, we also want to increase the educational part of the general subsidy for local self-government units. Self-governments bear huge costs of funding education, especially as regards teachers' wages. This does not allow them to make other investments that people are waiting for. Thirdly, we have three amendments financed from different sources when it comes to setting up a special reserve for a disaster fund for farmers. I was talking about the difficult situation of farmers. They require support because it is a problem of food security for all of us. Another amendment concerns the creation of a reserve for the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases. We know what a serious situation this is when it comes to financial needs related to the prevention of cancer reduction. Finally, the funds for the antismog programme. Thousands of Polish citizens die as a result of smog. Finally, a small amendment concerning the financing of the activities of the Mausoleum of Martyrology of Polish Villages in Michniów. There is a need for funding to spread the problem of Martyrology as well. Hence the need to finance this museum, which has been expanded, for which I would like to express my thanks to the previous government, as well as to the present one. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. There is still time to use if you or one of your colleagues wanted to speak later in the discussion. I now ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me tell you a secret: Perpetuum mobile doesn't work, doesn't exist in classical physics, nor does it exist in economics. Prosperity does not come from public subsidies, prosperity comes from the hard work of citizens, and from transferring public money from account to account, from fund to fund, from budget to non-budget funds, and vice versa, this prosperity simply will not arise. Citizens in this whole mechanism can only lose, because your system is holes and just leaks, just like any public finance system. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we're debating is the most important bill of the year. This is a budget law, and the state - I am talking about the majority of the parliament - has agreed to hold a short debate on this law, i.e. The Confederate circle was only five minutes away. 676 pages of the law, 230 pages of justification and 820 pages of the committee's report - a total of 1726 pages and the State gives the Confederation only 5 minutes to discuss. [[Voice from the room: Too much.]] Really too much, too much. That's a very substantive approach. Allow the Member to speak. Well, let's get back to the meth lab. The budget is a plan. The plan can work if it has reasonable assumptions. What are your assumptions? Let's see. 4.6% GDP growth, 3.3% inflation. Do you really believe that? Let's look at the declarations of the person most responsible for the costing or inflation in Poland, i.e. declarations of the President of NBP, who is responsible for monetary policy in Poland. At the beginning of 2020, President Glapiński said that GDP would grow by 2%. At the end of the year, GDP decreased by 2.7%. To make a mistake by 4.7% In GDP growth, you really don't need to be an economist. In April 2020, the NBP President threatened us with deflation that prices would fall, that we would not be at risk of cost. As it was, we all saw. In January 2021 we heard that inflation, i.e. the cost, will fall and we are still threatened with deflation. In March 2021, the President of the NBP announced that inflation would occur in 2021 and 2022, but would reach only 2,5%. Already in June it reached 4.5% And then we heard from the NBP president that this is an absolute summit, and today inflation year to year is 7.7%. That's what comes out of your plans. And it's not like you made a mistake. This is due to the fact that you do not know where the cost comes from, where the decline in GDP comes from. This is because of how you are trying to prevent it. The state decided last year that they would close the economy for three months, and citizens would not feel it, because the state would create public subsidies. You thought that the perpetuum mobile works and that through the money that the NBP has printed, the state will create funds that are funds, money will pump into the economy, and therefore the economy may not function. The money's gonna pump in, and it's gonna be okay. Even then, we said that adding the money to the market would cause incredible inflation. And for your actions, for the closure of the economy - this prosperity does not come from the air - all citizens will pay. Indeed, we all pay a huge price, with inflation of 7.7%. Thank you very much. I hope the government that's so often wrong about such important things... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't bother the gentleman. ...will have no more impact on such an important bill as the Budget Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will be presented by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, After many weeks of work in the Committee on Public Finance, this budget can be summed up in one sentence: instead of spending money on saving the health and life of Poles and Poles, you prefer to spend it on Kurski's TV and the Ministry of Sport, for Meisa. The year of inflation awaits us, and the cost will cause insomnia in Poles. The shield won't work - that's known. Inflation will continue to remain at close to 7% on an annual basis. Prices will increase at least until spring, if not longer. It is assumed that even in 2023 prices will rise at an unacceptable level, difficult for Polish and Polish wallets. These are the latest forecasts. How does the government react to these predictions? I'm proposing a cover-up. What's that? A failed attempt to reduce energy bills or heat the apartment. You offer exactly 17 PLN, up to 17 PLN per person in the statistical 3-person Polish family at the price of coal - 1500 PLN per 1 t. It takes 5 tons to heat the average 100-metre single-family house. Think about it. The Energy Regulatory Office has already received requests for changes in household tariffs. The scale of the proposed increases is 40%. It is estimated that we will end up at a 20% increase at the beginning of the year. Let me stress: at the beginning of the year, i.e. it is not yet fully consumed, it is consumed only at the level of production inflation, not consumer inflation. To solve the problem of rising electricity prices, we must first of all start investing in energy, in the development of renewable energy sources, in the development of energy networks, in the construction of energy warehouses. There is no money in this budget, even though it will once again affect it - another, because this year it has also affected - over PLN 20 billion from the sale of emission rights. You guys just burn that money in a coal furnace. Nor can you take care of the interests of Poles and Poles in Brussels. I don't know, I really don't understand how it could have been in such a difficult time, with such a unstable market economy, to make sure that this advance doesn't affect our bill by the end of the year. Of course, I am talking about the advance from the Fund for Reconstruction, or about EUR 4.7 billion for investments in Poland. Even if now the Polish National Reconstruction Plan will be accepted and this money will be launched for us, the advances will no longer be available, it will be gone by the end of December. We will have to trigger pre-financing for these investments, so credit funding, which will further stimulate inflation, and the condition for controlling drastic price increases is to master debt growth. You still owe us outside the budget and out of Parliament's control, and so beyond the rules of the game. And saying, Mr President, that's not true, because you're not hiding anything, isn't true. You follow the rules of the game, you celebrate the spending rule, you celebrate parliamentary control. You know very well that you bend the law, because the around budget bill is full of various expenses, which will be financed from extra-budget money, from the bonds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. In this way, you are simply misleading citizens. Health is another can of Pandora buried deep underground by you. The Medical Fund was supposed to give billions of dollars to health. In this and next year it was supposed to be a minimum of PLN 6 billion, and in fact it could be almost PLN 8 billion, almost PLN 9 billion. How'd that work out? This year you were to spend more than PLN 4 billion, you allocated less than PLN 2 billion from the budget, and spent, attention, PLN 171 million. In fact, you have made access to medical services more difficult by moving tasks to the Medical Fund and by not running any money and no competitions. This year again we have a limit of over PLN 4 billion in the fund, but the money secured is PLN 2 billion. Of course, the question is, how much will you spend? What is the effect (the bell) for citizens? Mr. Marshal, just a moment longer, because I'm finishing up, but this is a very important matter. What is the effect for citizens? E.g. If you have cystic fibrosis, you could take medicines available in the world that inhibit the development of this disease, but this medicine is too expensive for you, and you just don't refund it. Even though you've been promising a refund since January 1, we already know she won't be here. This drug is refunded practically throughout Western Europe: in Germany, France, Austria, Italy, also in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but not in Poland. Why? [[There are talks, negotiations.]] It is not refunded in Poland, because instead of spending money on saving people's lives, you prefer - I repeat - spend it on creating a position for Meza and maintaining propaganda on Kurski's television. [[There are negotiations with producers.]] It's not a budget for people. [[That's not true.]] We will request that this budget be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u28	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj will now present the position of the Polish Case Circle. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! About Polish cases has even less time than the Confederation, because only 4 minutes, but isn't it enough to refer to such an important bill as the budget bill? The state budget isn't just numbers. There is a philosophy behind its creation. This makes it possible to assess whether a given government manages well the hard-earned resources developed by Poles. Can this be assessed in this case? No, because this law was created on the basis of falsified data. The opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber has been repeated here, which said that not only the appropriations entered in the Budget Act but also the non-budget resources, which are 290 billion, are taxpayers' money. We do not know how they are spent because they are outside the budget law. Nor do we know how PLN 100 billion was spent. In fact, it took place without control, without the Public Procurement Act. This was mentioned by the Public Procurement Office last year. We don't know how much money has been printed, because inflation doesn't come out of nowhere, money has been printed. We don't know what the real deficit is because we don't know how much debt we owe. You once said that the budget should be balanced - that was the intention of Law and Justice - that is, revenue should close at the same level as expenditure. We are very far from this intention, so it is not clear whether the budget is good for future generations. That's how we should look at the state's finances. It's not like it's gonna be another year, just until the election. Unfortunately, such a philosophy is behind this budget. It's hiding, creative accounting, and the said abolition of the investment expenditure rule. We don't know how much investment debt was actually incurred. The money was hidden in various ministries, different funds, new agencies. There are no reforms of individual institutions. Every problem that has arisen has led to the creation of a new institution. Didn't the 500+ program work? Let's set up a family institute that will solve the demographic problem. Reforms related to the pension system are missing. The next generation will not be part of a substitution-based system and will not have good pensions. No one has prepared any reform proposal for them. Is this the way the state budget is supposed to look every year, that it will somehow be just until the elections, or will we start thinking about state policy as a responsible policy that will affect the next generation? We can't leave them any more debts. We've already paid our debts. We've been told that we can't make what our peers in the West earn because we pay our debts after the commune. Aren't we gonna leave the next generation of people with even bigger debts? That's what's gonna happen. They're gonna be paying off their debts. We will continue to burden them with new taxes, which we will call tribute, excise duty or otherwise, and they will never be able to live at the same level as their colleagues from the European Union. You are not much and reluctant to talk about our reforms, but you are happy to talk about reforms outside our borders, in the European Union and in other countries. Let us work on Polish expenditure, on the Polish budget, so that it is clear, clear, task-oriented. That's the solution. It's important that we show everyone how we spend our money. It cannot be that each ministry will be a separate principality in which there is money to be distributed in certain districts and it will not be subject to any control. Let's start looking at the state budget as a budget for our own household. It's supposed to be economical and economical. Let's start wondering if the Poles will be happy to trust us next time by entrusting us with their money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u30	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! In the record budget of the State for 2022, which exceeded PLN 0.5 trillion - exactly PLN 512 billion - the record value was a general subsidy for local government units. The amount of this subsidy is PLN 72 487 million. It was 40% higher than a similar subsidy from 2015. This high subsidy and large financial resources were allocated from the state budget to local investment. Recently more than PLN 24 billion have been allocated to all local governments according to the criteria of needs, and not, as the opposition tried to convince Poles, according to political affiliation. This shows that the government of Law and Justice takes good care of Polish local governments. Further amounts from the State budget were allocated to investments in sewerage and water networks. It is about over PLN 4 billion for more than 1700 municipalities. More than PLN 340 million were allocated to the Popegeer communes, which all the former rulers forgot. There were also funds for over 200 mountain municipalities in the amount of nearly PLN 700 million. This demonstrates the concern of the government for Polish local governments. In the State budget for 2022, education subsidy amounts to over PLN 53 billion. There are 13 billion more than the 2015 subsidies. In the first year of the PO-PSL coalition, education subsidy amounted to just over PLN 30 billion. After 8 years of these governments increased to 40 400 million, i.e. by about 10 billion PLN. The average teacher's salary was PLN 3100 and is now over PLN 5,000. zł. Education and education tasks are carried out by eight ministries, voivodships and a cultural aid fund. It is a consolidated amount of PLN 56 440 million this year. This is more than 40% higher than the 2015 amount. It is also important for the government to achieve the objective of a long-term scientific, scientific and technical and innovative state policy, as well as higher education. The consolidated amount of expenditure on higher education and science is in the budget for 2022. PLN 32 850 million, of which more than PLN 27 billion were allocated to higher education and science and nearly PLN 6 billion were allocated to research for practical applications. The highest position in heading 730: Higher education and science are expenditure on teaching and research activities, i.e. PLN 17 billion. For grants and subsidies, the budget is planned for over PLN 24 billion, for current expenditure of higher education and science budgetary units - over PLN 1.5 billion and for property expenditure - over PLN 1 billion. More than PLN 1527 million were planned for material aid for students and PhD students, for the activities of the National Centre for Research and Development - PLN 1240 million and for cooperation abroad - PLN 650 million. As part of the multiannual programmes of higher education and health, strategic tasks were planned, such as the construction of the campus of the Music Academy in Bydgoszcz, the total cost of which is PLN 290 million, the extension of the infrastructure of the University of Warsaw - PLN 188 million in 2022, the reconstruction and extension of the hospital of the Medical University in Lublin - over PLN 72 billion, the second stage of the construction of the Clinical-Dydactic Centre of the Medical University in Łódź - the amount of PLN 140 million, the extension of the University Hospital No.2 in Bydgoszcz - and the modernisation of the Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin was planned for PLN 114 billion, and the cost of the entire modernisation project was planned for PLN 0.5 billion. Such a large budget expenditure on higher education facilities and clinical hospitals has never been before, it is the last several years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition, to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today there is a very important debate about state finances, the security of public finances, the money of Poles. I ask, where is the Prime Minister? [[Applause]] Where is the Constitutional Minister of Finance? The lack of these people is eloquent, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing how the Poles' money will be used. It is about meeting high social and economic challenges, such as a pandemic that collects heavy death tolls, inflation and associated costs, as well as lack of effectiveness in fighting smog. Unfortunately, these problems are not effectively solved. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club is proposing amendments to the draft budget. Firstly, we demand, I stress: we demand an increase in health expenditure by PLN 20 billion, [[Applause]] to prevent a health disaster. We propose to allocate this money to the treatment of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, psychiatric care and much more. This will improve the GDP rate for health, which is only 4.89% And the Prime Minister is lying, saying it's above 5%. [[Applause]] This is one of the highest indicators in the European Union. [[Voice from the room: Lowest.]] Sorry, the lowest. The source of funding will be the inflation tax removed from the pockets of Poles. Poles demand their money back because they want to heal, heal their loved ones and live, just live. Another amendment. For energy transformation we propose PLN 10 billion, [[Applause]] because it is not only a command of the moment arising from the decline in the power of outdated power plants, but at the same time it is important and effective anti-inflationary measures. Otherwise, there is a further sharp rise in energy prices and the need to buy energy in external markets. We do not agree to undersell the proceeds of the sale of CO2 allowances and tortoise energy transformation rates. We say: not a leaping and unjustified increase in the expenses of the Prime Minister's office, the President, the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, numerous agencies and institutes. [[Applause]] We say: not a leaping and unjustified increase in the expenses of the Prime Minister's office, the President, the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, numerous agencies and institutes. [[Applause]] A decisive fight against smog is needed, and so far programmes are unfortunately dilated, such as those relating to the promotion of the exchange of heating in multi-residential buildings. That's where most Poles live, where the poorest live. We propose to allocate PLN 1 billion from the sale of CO2 allowances for this purpose. [[Applause]] It's about time teachers had a decent salary. We propose to allocate PLN 6.5 billion for this purpose, to increase salaries in two stages: from 1 January - by 6% and from 1 September introduce a second stage of wage increases. [[Applause]] The source of funding will be the money that is in the budget, but hidden in different reserves. It is about 40 billion zlotys hidden in reserves for everything, so that later on, I would like to stress, without justification, to have them. The remuneration of the budget area has recently been significantly dilated. In order to partially eliminate this, it is necessary - and we propose - to increase the remuneration for administrative staff of courts and prosecutors by PLN 390 million, the increase in wages for civil servants in the Police and Border Guard. It's time to claim these employees. [[Applause]] The government is not responding, High Izbo, to avalanche growing problems in the countryside, including particularly the several times increase in fertiliser prices, which directly translates into rising food prices and costs. Farmers must receive aid to reduce inflation. We propose PLN 800 million for farmers' subsidies to purchase fertilisers [[Applause]] and an increase of PLN 200 million in aid for agricultural and livestock insurance. That money was already in the budget, but the PiS at the last meeting of the finance committee took it. Unfortunately, that's the truth. [[Applause]] There are many social problems that can be solved with relatively low inputs. We propose that the High House resume its in vitro fertility treatment programme, a significant improvement in the psychiatric treatment of children and young people, the launch of a real-life trust phone. It really doesn't work very well. [[Applause]] and young people commit suicide. How long is this gonna take? What are we waiting for, High Izbo? A very important amendment, which is not only needed support, but also an expression of solidarity with municipalities covered by the emergency zone. We offer for this purpose 280 million PLN, each 10 PLN for each municipality. [[Applause]] Those communities need that money. To conclude, I urge all Members to support these important and valid amendments, which will show that we respect the money of Poles and we count on their urgent needs and expectations. We also make two amendments to the text section. [[Applause]] I'll pass on our amendments to the Marshal in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u34	Good. Thank you, Member. Time of the Left, Mr Jan Szopiński continues.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether this may be due to the omission of the fact that the proposed amendments to the budget do not contain an amendment by the PiS Members who, after all, have tabled a resolution on calling on the European Union countries to suspend the EU's emissions trading system and to take action to reform by abolishing their rights to trading. I understand that all the PiS Members signed under that resolution will ask for the rejection of the draft budget, otherwise it will be a declaration that it is extremely propaganda. Its aim is not, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, to protect Polish interests, but, on the contrary, to consent to speculative financial operations of the government, causing the drainage of the Polish taxpayer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u36	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to continue his speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, on the occasion of the budget debate, I would like to ask for the financial condition of Polish local governments, because the propaganda from the rulers flows all over, while you have adopted the method of giving to the left pocket, but forbids much more from the right. Today, this makes the money that local governments have exclusive influence on very little. Of course, you are trying to mask the support that is dedicated to these investments that the voivode or other governor of power will recognize, but that is not the case in local government. The second thing that today must also sound on this occasion: the measures that local governments have been waiting for from the European Union (the Bell) are also at great risk today as a result of your policy. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland makes further regional amendments that meet the real needs of local government, which unfortunately cannot be met as a result of bad regional policy of the state. We believe that it is in this context that the state budget is unfortunately insufficient to implement good regional policy by Polish local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki will now speak on behalf of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This budget isn't gonna stick. This budget will not close in 2022 unless Poland joins the radical fight against inflation, with cost, with the economic processes finishing our industry, finishing our households as well; if Poland does not deliver the European Union's climate and energy package; it will not stop the crazy increase in electricity prices; it will not stop the crazy rise in gas prices and any other energy media by radical tax cuts. That's not in this budget. This is a survival budget, not a development budget. We demand radical steps to reduce the cost of life, but they will also contribute to the development of our economy. This is the Confederacy's request and we must finally (the bell) in the European Union start to fight for our interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Today we have a second reading of the Budget Law for 2022. I'd say a very special procedure... I'm just experiencing some action aimed at, I'd say, anti-Germanity. What does that mean? At first reading, we had some amendments tabled to the budget aimed at reducing the resources for the functioning of national and ethnic minorities in Poland. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It's unprecedented. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, these amendments were rejected in the substantive committees and, above all, in the Committee on Public Finances, for which I would like to thank my colleagues from the committee warmly. Yesterday, however, I learned that this is not the end, that there is a complex amendment, which has the approval of the Ministry of Education, Minister, for the amount of 39 800 thousand. zł reducing the educational part of general subsidies for local governments. Because you know the system, you know what it is - there is no money allocated to individual minorities, there is no possibility. If there are resources, then either to carry out tasks in the field of teaching the language of a minority, or to projects which are submitted by minorities in the Ministry of Interior and Administration. I can say that right now we have a positive situation, which is to propose an amendment by the Ministry of Home Affairs adding PLN 1 million to minority projects. On the other hand, I would like to concentrate on this proposal, from which I started to make 39 800 thousand. reduce the subsidy by allocating this amount to the special reserve Mt. The resources for teaching Polish language in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't mind adding money to Polish language learning in Germany. I am voting in favour of this with two hands, but I am opposed to taking funds from education subsidies, and this is also pointing out that these are measures that must be deprived of the German minority - see: children learning German as their mother tongue. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this is an impossible thing to do. Unable to do, Minister, because it is a general subsidy that concerns local governments, because it is they who receive it. Self-governments use these resources to carry out tasks at school, i.e. to receive them by school heads, to cover costs, even in connection with the employment of teachers. So we're really hurting the kids. In the German minority, there are over 48 thousand, almost 50,000. children, Polish citizens, children who have the right, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities or in accordance with the Law on Education, to learn this language. And today someone is proposing to take these measures. Ladies and gentlemen! Here's what I'm gonna say. We've been hearing a lot about the use of symmetry lately. Nobody who is interested in the functioning of minorities, the minority environment does not recognise such rules. Every right acquired is a respectable right. And here, to talk diplomatically with the German side, there's a kind of hostage situation, because, I'm sorry, but me and my environment feel like hostages. We, citizens of the Republic of Poland, loyal patriots living in Poland, become hostages of Poles living in Germany. I think that in the 21st century it is unthinkable. I would therefore ask you very much, Minister Skuz - I am directing these words to you, because you are probably the most appropriate person here, who has a view of the state budget and, also, for the sake of the application of the law - please do not accept this amendment, which I believe is primarily aimed at reducing resources for local governments. After all, local authorities are not exempted from the obligation to carry out the task, the local government must carry out the task, but it will have less resources to carry out the task. And you know it's a difficult situation, especially you know how it is in local governments. That is why I would like to appeal to you and to Minister Murdzk for this amendment to be given a negative opinion. And to you, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, I would like this amendment, if it comes to plenary, to be rejected by you. That's what I'm asking, and thank you for that. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, because, I think, this is the only centre that understands the issues of national and ethnic minorities and makes sure, however, that the tasks that are imposed in the laws (the bell) are carried out by the Polish state as best as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u42	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating the budget for 2022, a budget that is undoubtedly not only in Poland, because it is similar in Europe or in the world, will be a specific budget. This is de facto the case for most of the world's economies for two years. We hear from the opposition about all possible ways of changing information about the growth of the Treasury's debt, the increase in expenditure in the various areas on which you feel that they are not the right ones, although we will think that support for entrepreneurs, support for families, support for health services and support in the situation where we are today - I think of the Polish army, Polish services - is necessary and not only necessary. And without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, we will be different. Now a little bit about the truth, about the numbers that we should talk about here first of all as members of the finance committee who speak on matters of the state budget. It is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the Treasury's debt without reference to the pandemic situation. We would like to say postpandemic, but she is still a pandemic situation. I think 2022 will, without a doubt, be the same. Ladies and gentlemen! The debt of the State Treasury in 2021, i.e. the one we end up with, is PLN 1102 million. Next year it will be PLN 1155 million, which will be 42% in relation to GDP. We're still a long way from the prudential thresholds, ladies and gentlemen. If we look at public debt - this year it will be PLN 1147 million, representing 45.4% and next year it will be PLN 1192 million, representing 43.8% - this value is also far from the prudential thresholds resulting from the Polish Constitution, the Public Finance Act, but also those thresholds that the European Union provides for. I think that a few years ago we could still dream of that amount of debt. Let me remind you that at some point in our country we had to or the parliamentary majority at that time had to make a decision that would be considered, I think, for generations. It was about taking money from open pension funds so as not to exceed a certain debt, the maximum debt laid down in our constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about the sovereign debt, it is still under control and is the debt which is one of the lower, possibly central states in the European Union. But you're also repeating like a mantra of inflation information. You show these plates of yours: PiS equals cost. If we look at the cost and inflation in Europe, in the world, it must be made clear today that the world is expensive and not one or the other political party that represents our parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! Get to the point. Inflation this year: European Union - 4.5%; Germany - 5.5% , highest in 30 years; Italy - 3.5% , the highest up to 10 years; France - over 3.5% , highest in many, many years; Spain - almost 6%, the highest, ladies and gentlemen, for more than 30 years; Lithuania - more than 8%, highest in many years; Belgium - 5,8 , highest in 30 years, Netherlands - 4% , the highest for more than 25 years; the United Kingdom, which is outside the European Union, but we still have very close relations as members of the Union also in the United Kingdom - almost 4.5% Or 4.5%. These are, ladies and gentlemen, countries that have not had such a high level of inflation in decades. I would like to say that social democratic and left-wing coalitions rule mostly in those countries that I have pointed out. And speaking about the fact that we, as the government of Law and Justice, introduced the Polish state and the Polish economy on some inflationary ground, is not true. I will no longer talk about the economies that have been mentioned here, such as the United States - a reading of 6.5% or 6,8% , even some say, definitely higher in the United States than expected; Turkey - 20%; China - the highest in years. All this causes, ladies and gentlemen, that there are some reasons that build inflation levels not only in Poland, but also around the world. This is above all the biggest price shock since the 1990s resulting from energy carriers, mainly oil, gas, and in the case of Europe and in the case of the Polish state gas will be of great importance. Unfortunately, some of the representatives of the Polish political scene, representing our interests at the level of the European Union, often forget this. But there are also positive aspects to our budget. The inflation needs to be read, ladies and gentlemen, with several factors and economic factors. GDP in the European Union at 2% , we - over 5%. This is something that makes us happy and gives us great hope, shows us that this Polish economy is being conducted properly. Unemployment rate - less than 5%. We are approaching the natural unemployment rate, which has never, I am sorry, been our share in Poland for the past few decades. All this shows, ladies and gentlemen, one thing: Polish public finances may not be in an excellent form, as we all wish, also we on the part of the Law and Justice, but they are definitely in a better position and condition than the public finances of many European Union countries or many countries in the world. Anti-inflationary packages, aid packages, tax reduction packages mean that for Poles, despite the increase in inflation, which you are talking about so much and to which we are also spending so much time, it will be much easier to survive another year in hope - I think it is not only my hope, but also all of us - that next year will bring really the first major fall in inflation during the spring period - the beginning of the summer, when both gas and oil are becoming less important, but also the level of food prices naturally falls everywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good budget. We kindly ask you to consider all the comments you are making. We will also consider them. We ask you to support this budget, which is a good budget for our country, for our citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u44	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! White is white and black is black. [[Applause]] This PiS is responsible for the cost in Poland and no one will tell Poles and Poles otherwise. PiS is expensive, and expensive is you. The inflation is like a proverbial goat, I talked about it in the finance committee and in the previous session of the Sejm. Yesterday, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance wiped their hands because it made the budget revenue go up. It was possible to update further budgets, telling that the government was taking away the mobs, that it effectively sealed the tax system. But that is not true, this increase in revenue was mainly due to rising prices of products and services. These are Polish households from year to year, from month to month they must spend more and more to live normal lives. VAT revenues are growing, but what do Polish families get out of it? They were supposed to have money for a decent life. They're barely alive today. A growing scale of poverty is a clear proof That's what I'm talking about. But that's not all, because inflation raises nominal GDP. Thanks to inflation, gross domestic product is increasingly higher, impressive in this nominal dimension and thus falling relatively debt. You're growing out of debt, you'd like to say perversely. The inflation allows you to indebt the state on a scale that has not yet been recorded completely without control. You give away money for your own in the formula, which I have repeatedly quoted: to whom on whom not. It's basically a commune in its pure form. You base economic growth on debt-funded consumption, your investment rate is falling, your savings rate is falling. Plus, it looks like this year is going to be the first year in which household savings fall. [[Applause]] [[It's all bad luck.]] This is feeding this goat and creating its excellent conditions. She pushes herself around and shows the horns. She denied it, and you can't move out that easily. And the history of this disease is a leaf behind a leaf, more than 40 new taxes and charges, and an increase in existing ones. Each time we said that this is driving inflation, that these are further inflationary impulses, because rising tax costs in business are passed on to customers and prices of products and services, and prices of products and services are rising. How much more is the president's word that says you won't raise taxes? We're also dealing with inflation here. [[We just lowered it.]] Remember the story of Kozusze Liars? I didn't eat anything, I didn't drink anything. And you guys are still feeding that goat. This appropriation is New Deal, the highest increase in history when it comes to people doing business. The letter behind the note, so it's no wonder that the goat and the bod are holding back. And then there's wealth management. I have talked about this many times, I have quoted: Turów, Nowe Jaworzno, Bełchatów, Ostrołęka. [[Billions of profit... billions of profit.]] We must also not forget Don Orleone, because here we are dealing with a huge band of successes. A few years ago, oil on the world markets cost $128 per barrel, today - 75. I'm not going to quote the prices at the stations because everyone sees them and swears where the world stands - expensive+, that's the PiS, that's what people say when they pay the bills. [[Shame! Shame, sir...]] You say the course has changed. Then I will ask who in the Polish country, who in the country of PiS is really responsible for the strength of Polish zloty. Am I supposed to remind you of extremely irresponsible intervention in the currency market to bring the government a few billion dollars as a gift? It is completely independent - but probably from common sense - the President of the National Bank of Poland. You're winding up an inflationary spiral. The inflation shield, which the Prime Minister says is to partially mitigate the effects, will only wind this inflation and the causes need to be eliminated. I have said this many times: stop milking the state and citizens, stop the New Deal in the business section, change the President of NBP, just to a good start, and introduce a new budget based on real assumptions, because this is actually unacceptable. [[Voice from the room: Balcerowicz...]] It's a motion to reject this budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I was going to start with the part I was going to talk about, but two words of reference to my previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is a strange situation that the former minister says such words: that a clean commune in a clean way, that no one is watching over the debt, finish the money handout, maybe Mr. Balcerowicz's return, maybe Mr. Rostowski's. Minister, as long as you do not have authority, try not to disturb, but to listen to the proposal we have for our citizens. What do we have to offer? Above all, in this area, which is important, about security, which citizens always think is very important, but it has not always been used in practice in the past. It goes on, among other things. with very important expenditure on national defence, on internal affairs, as well as financing the voivodships' budgets primarily in terms of the actions of the Member States. and all the anti-crisis elements. These expenditures, please, next year in the state budget plan total PLN 104.6 billion, i.e. over 20% the budget that goes to the security of the Polish state. Why are we spending so much money on this area? Because that's what citizens expect directly. They look forward to peace, security, ensuring that the state services care about this sphere, and it's not just declaratively speaking that they're trying to do it, that they're spending specific money. Since the budget law was at first reading, the Polish Parliament has passed three very important laws which will complement the budget, specifically certain spheres, i.e. the police, the fire department, the Border Guard and the State Protection Service, through the modernisation programme. Over PLN 10 billion will be allocated in the next 4 years, and this year it will be about PLN 10 billion. It's also about the additional police stations. Let me remind you that next year there will be 250 stations restored. How many, ladies and gentlemen, have these stations been decommissioned? I heard at a committee meeting, and you said to the Civic Platform that the self-governments in the past had asked for the removal of police stations. Such hypocrisy and such deception are hard to listen to, but this is clearly your narrative. [[The station doesn't provide security. It's patrols. There's a difference.]] New equipment and equipment, new police jobs, new employees, also working in the police, new work is already underway - police school, increased training of police officers, new posts in the fire department, 53 new guards, 67 modernization of existing and 40 specialized high-end fire protection vehicles. The second point concerns a law, which may have a smaller budgetary expression for the time being, but is very important, and was adopted in consensus in the Polish Parliament. It's about the volunteer fire department bill. This is a very important thing which, through the budget, also gives stability to such an important sphere. Finally, what is important about 1800 posts in the case of a new law on the Central Cybercrime Office. This is really, ladies and gentlemen, very, very much needed these days. This is a sphere of huge threats. We see not only as citizens, but also as those who perform public functions, how easily it is to be exposed to such threats that affect us. So much for certain areas of internal affairs and public order. National defense. Let me remind you that we are allocating 2.2% as an important subject. GDP for defence. We maintain this and spend this money. I will remind you of the goals of spending this money: technical modernization of the Polish Army, strengthening the operational capacity of operational units deployed in the east of the country - I do not need to explain to everyone why this is to be in this part of Poland - increasing the number of Polish Armed Forces, creating conditions for increasing the presence of the United States troops in Poland, forming structures and building operational capacity of the territorial defence units, forming structures and building operational capabilities of the Cyberspace Defence Army, implementing the training process of the Armed Forces, in particular as part of national and international exercises and trainings, increasing the capacity of the military health service to combat and combat epidemiological threats. At this point, it is also a very important element, as Mr Costowniak said, which affects Poland, COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, two words about how the work was done and how long this work lasted. My predecessors at the Law and Justice Club talked about it. The opposition has tabled 132 amendments to increase the state budget by more than 20 billion. You are talking about spending money, you are talking about spending money. So how do you treat these conclusions? I mean, you guys are inconsistent. Either there's a handout, or there's no handout. 77 proposals reducing expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance, 74 proposals reducing expenditure of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, 21 proposals reducing expenditure of the Chancellery of the President and 16 proposals reducing expenditure on national defence. [[In the case of the Prime Minister's office and the President's Office, you increase.]] But there was no country's proposal to reduce e.g. Senate spending, right? But it's just a little digression. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I talking about this? Because it all has one purpose. You're talking about expensive, you're talking about PiS being expensive. Of course, that's your new rule now. Somehow, in a strange way, it also appeared on web portals, but that's the reality. [[It's true.]] Poles want and expect to implement increased security and public order. In this budget Law and Justice proposes it, it secures for next year. Security of state borders. Let me remind you that a law has been passed which the opposition did not want to support concerning the construction and security of the eastern border. It is a strong and well-armed army, professional and effective operation of a public organization. I wasn't talking about that, but there's a whole set of KPRM issues. Citizens want an administration that is efficient, fast and effective, also based on digital capabilities. It is, of course, also a question of how to deal with crisis situations. I think in this budget, huge - for the first time in history Poland is a budget of more than 500 billion, more than 0.5 trillion PLN [[Applause]] - this safety component is provided. Law and Justice will support this budget so that citizens feel safe in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u49	For many days, Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, we have been saying: the budgets for 2021 and next year are expensive. It's the PiS that pulls money out of every citizen's pocket every day. You don't have your money. The government doesn't. The government takes it first and then gives it. How does it work? Anything. We would like to say that the greatest hypocrisy in the country as regards the budgets of the last three years, and you rule six years, concerns the Medical Fund. President Duda was supposed to make a noise. In Dworczyk's e-mails - password: 3 billion PLN for health. In 2020, 200 million were spent out of 2 billion. This year only PLN 171 million was spent from over PLN 4 billion to November. And they're waiting, for example. kids with rare diseases, cystic fibrosis. I'm saying password because we don't have much time. In 2022, you're not going to give 4 billion, you're lying, you're only planning 2 billion. And every year for the last 6 years - PLN 2 billion each for Kurski's television. Aren't you ashamed? And now, taking all this into account, how do you rule? For the last six years, it's a piss price. The debts of hospitals are increasing. These debts of hospitals increased by more than PLN 6 billion. And manipulation, pure manipulation on the National Health Fund. You say you spend 5,75%. It is not true that you have cleverly lowered this, instead of 129 billion PLN there will be 112 billion - but this is the money of Poles, this is our money, paid by us. The result is the debts of hospitals, the queues to the doctor, because they didn't decrease, and tragedies that could wait for hospitals in the future. Expensive current, expensive carriers - zero shields. Are you talking about a good budget? 350 billion debt this year, 2022. If it were so good in health care and everywhere, they wouldn't strike nurses, medical rescuers, they wouldn't die so many people. Your conscience is over 80,000. COVID deaths - you failed in health care - and 140 thousand. Oversized deaths. That puts your conscience in jeopardy. It's not working. And don't tell me national defense is more important. The most important thing for every Pole, for all of us is the life of Poles and saving. You take money out of our pockets every day. No one's gonna forget that. PiS - it's expensive, PiS - it's excessive deaths, PiS - it's long hospitals, PiS - it's health workers strikes, PiS - it's an untapped medical fund. It's your conscience. You're gonna answer for that one day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u51	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of the United Rights has consistently implemented the policy of increasing health expenditure and at the same time is implementing its reform. The budget for health protection for 2022 is another confirmation that we are able to keep our promises and implement ambitious projects. Total expenditure on health care in 2022 will amount to PLN 133 600 million, which is 5.75% GDP. This is 13 100 million PLN more than in 2021. If you take into account about PLN 20 billion to counter the pandemic from the COVID fund, i.e. from outside the system, it will amount to nearly PLN 150 billion. Over 5 years, between 2015 and 2020 the expenditure on health care increased by 50%, close to 50%. In a comparable period of 5 years, in your governments, in 2011 and 2015 only increased by 14%. Legal guarantees 7% GDP and their consistent implementation year after year by the PiS government mean that we will reach the EU average by 2027. In the light of the above figures, demagogy or lack of knowledge - and probably both - of the former prime minister who came from Brussels, supposedly repairing Poland, who on 24 November accused the government that, I quote: today, Poland - which is probably not in people's minds - is the only country in Europe which, during the pandemic, reduced the amount of resources for health protection. Since 2009, when he was Prime Minister, health expenditure in relation to GDP started to fall to the lowest level of 4.57% in 2014 GDP. In 2015, the expenditures according to the plan amounted to PLN 74 billion, this was the last year of your governments. From 2016, they are growing systematically, exceeding 100 billion in 2020, 120 billion in 2021 and 133 billion in 2022, about 80% in 2020. more than they were spending on health care during your governments. In addition, there is a COVID fund: 2020 - 10 billion, 2021 - 30 billion, about 20 billion are planned for 2022. As I said, these are additional measures that also meet health needs. So, in the statement that the expenditure on health care is decreasing - which also appears here all the time, in committees and in this House - there is as much truth as in the statement that inflation is today highest in the 21st century. It is not true that inflation is highest in the 21st century because in July 2000 it was 11.6%. And of course you add that it's the PiS' fault. Tusk does not want to remember, either, that when you ruled and when there was no pandemic, there was no protection of the economy, no protection of companies that received about PLN 200 billion as part of the aid, there was no increase in the prices of energy raw materials. The inflation in spring 2008 was 4.8% , and in the spring of 2011, during your reigns, it was 5% and maintained above 4% in 2012 [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Was the shield?]] What were you doing back then? What were you doing? [[Voice from the room: Nothing, zero.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I have not seen Mrs Skowrońska or other Members with a sign bearing the inscription: expensive. You didn't shed crocodile tears that people were hurt. [[Voice from the room: Where have you been?]] In the years of the rule of law and justice, inflation was close to 2% and did not exceed the inflation target. In 2020 consumer prices rose by 3.4% and was included in an acceptable deviation from the inflation target. High Izbo, what were you doing at the time, what were your efforts to counter inflation? [[Voice from the O.R.: None.]] You put all your burdens on the poorest, on society. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What were you doing? What have you been doing? What did you vote for? [[But tell me what you're doing.]] You've raised interest rates when it comes to loans, causing credit-money costs... [[Talk about your governments.]] ...causing the debt of people who have borrowed loans and the bankruptcy of many borrowers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[The highest inflation rate in 20 years.]] You've been holding back the growth of the economy through these high interest rates, the sharp monetary policy, you've maintained high unemployment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Some of the Members show the postcards with the inscription: PiS = expensive]] [[Voice from the room: Higher, higher.]] Excuse me, Member. My fellow Members themselves are bothering you in your speech. [[The voice from the hall: But, Marshal, what is it? This is the Seym?]] Mr President, I ask you not to disturb your clubmate. [[Voice from the room: This will also reassure the Civic Platform.]] [[Excuse me, I'm protesting. This is where decent people and Krystyna Skowronska sit.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] The unemployment of your governments was the greatest nightmare of the Third Republic. The unemployment rate was 40% in 2015 higher than in 2021. We've reduced this rate from 9.7%. For your government to 5.6%. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] What were you doing when your government inflation was 4%, 5% ? You raised taxes: VAT from 22% to 23%, VAT on books, [[Applause]] For the specialist press, for vegetables, fruits, fish, flour, grits, you've eliminated the internet relief. [[Meanwhile, inflation has been high for 20 years.]] Allow me to speak with you. You've even reduced your funeral allowance to 6,000. PLN up to 4,000. zł. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] This was your anti-inflationary shield, and this is the alternative you have for Poland to the policy of the current United Right Government. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm going back to the health issue. I was talking about general expenses. 133 billion, or close to 80% More than you've ever given for health care. As regards expenditure at the disposal of the Minister of Health for the next year, it is the amount of over PLN 14 800 million, i.e. 23% more than in 2021. Well, if it's less than it was before, it's either amnesia, or trying not to fix the state, but to make fuss, chaos, just feeding on low feelings of Poles. Important items in this respect include an increase of more than PLN 850 million in the funds provided for the financing of traineeships and medical specialisations, mainly due to the increase in salaries of trainees and residents as a result of the Law establishing the lowest remuneration. The second significant position will be the budget for medical universities - an increase of PLN 306 million, to the level of PLN 2 billion. This is mainly about increasing the limits for medical studies. Also in the field of investments in hospitals there was an increase of 130 million PLN, up to 900 million PLN. Health policy programmes are expected to receive PLN 31 million more than last year, so there is an increase to PLN 1433 million. The measures are intended for highly specialised services, free medicines for pregnant women, medical rescue within the voivodship budgets. You're baiting paramedics. We increased by 24% the funds for medical rescue, by nearly 600 million PLN, to the level of 2800 million PLN, to increase the rate for extracarrying and away allowances. Where was it in your day? [[Applause]] [[Go on.]] A health inspection will be strengthened by PLN 460 million, because it was urgent to do so, because the state has destroyed laboratories everywhere you can. [[Something amazing.]] You sold in foreign hands because Germans can do diagnostic tests in Polish laboratories, in Polish hospitals rather than Polish diagnes. That was your policy. [[Applause]] [[What do you say?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] 4 billion PLN for the Medical Fund. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't be sorry.]] There was talk of the Medical Fund. Madam President, the Minister explained precisely the medical fund in both the Health Committee and the finance committee. There's nothing to hide here. It's a lot of money, at your disposal, among others. for pediatrics. COVID disease caused that the demand for this purpose from psychiatric hospitals was not as high as we expected. And that money doesn't go away, it is. And that's a lot of money and you have to prepare the procedures for using them carefully. Because you will use every opportunity to claim that there are irregularities, and you will repeat it a hundred times, thinking that the Poles will believe it. As we can see, they don't believe you. We also, of course, have additional funds for psychiatry, which is a big problem in Poland. I am pleased that the government has created a new program of a different approach to treating children in such difficult situations. It is a gradual treatment - not as far as it has been done in hospitals - by leaving it in the environment, etc. [[Six years.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all that will be in 2022 will be a continuation of tasks and new tasks, because for many years we have been fighting the negligence of our opponents, our political opponents. What did we do? Two sentences, because there's no time, so I'm just pointing to some things. What did we do? We're gonna be 50% educated. More doctors than you've ever trained. [[Applause]] Because you didn't do anything in this direction to increase the number of students, increase the number of specializations, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a free preventative study. 40+ and many, many other activities. Here, of course, my colleagues are mobilizing me that we need to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that with a clear conscience it is possible to vote in favour of the draft budget for 2022 for the benefit of Poles, because for us, life and health of Poles are at stake. We will implement this consistently. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Gabrys!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u52	Thank you very much. Ms Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker did not notice the fact that for over 6 years in Poland the PiS has ruled undividedly, that we have the largest inflation in 20 years and that the PiS equals the cost. However, health is the most important thing today. The health system is strained by pandemics, just as Poles who are tired of fighting for health and life are doctors and non-medical workers. They have been fighting on the front line of the pandemic for months, which by inaction and irresponsible government is taking a tragic toll on deaths and detected infections. The government assures us that next year's health expenditure will be higher. I do not know why this optimism is because it is not real growth at all. First of all, we need to ask ourselves how the proposed budget will be used and whether it will improve patients' access to modern and effective treatment. Health should always be the most important, and during pandemics treated in a special way, not only by a small increase in resources, because these are far too few. This surplus will eat inflation, and then it will eat even more. In a thoughtful way, developed with experts, the health system needs to be structured in such a way that it is more effective to help patients and support patients, because patients are the most important in the whole health system. Pandemic and undiagnosed, neglected patients with oncology, cardiology, diabetes, chronic diseases have a huge health debt. When there is a shortage of money for medical services, when public health services are still in debt and county hospitals are on the verge of financial bankruptcy, what does the government do? The government is launching the Medical Fund, a fund that is to operate within the same funds from the Ministry of Health's budget. We wiped our eyes out of amazement, hearing such a speech a few days ago, another propaganda of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said: The Medical Fund is a specially constructed medical-financial vehicle, which is supposed to power the entire health system, in its most sensitive places, into financing. Again we hear: it has, although this fund operates almost 2 years, and of the 6 billion it uses how much? Only 171 million. Yeah, but we all remember that the Medical Fund had a different basis than the concern of power for the health safety of Poles. It was Andrzej Duda's electoral fund, which was the response to the wave of criticism that fell on him, as well as on the PiS government, when Kurski's television gave 2 billion PLN instead of, as we wanted, the fight against cancer. The Medical Fund is indeed a time machine that has moved into an undefined distant future. We hear about him all the time, no one's seen him, drinking water, photomontage. But when you talk about it, it's a proven cure for falling PiS poles. That's not how you're gonna cure the health system, which is why we're asking for a real financial injection for health. We tabled an amendment to the project for 2022, which increases health expenditure by PLN 20 billion. And I can't imagine, I can't imagine any of the Members of the High House voting against our amendment. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Member!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Mr Law and Justice, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Well, very little time, and you'd like to say so much. My whole concept of speaking has been demolished by my esteemed colleagues from the Platform, who have performed with such a simple one, one would like to say: populist, primitive grip, with this inscription. But it doesn't work badly for me, it works like a bull's sheet, and I'll answer that. This is the problem of democracy. Yeah, if that's what you think, you use a primitive thought shortcut like this, every government is responsible for what's going on, and we're responsible for the cost, too, just like the mayor and the mayor are responsible for what's going on in their cities. It's true. But the party, the main opposition party, which is provoking, aspires to take responsibility for the burden of government in the country, should present a higher level and not push it so hard because you insult the intelligence of your constituents as well as others thinking. Every Pole is already educated enough to know that. We have our responsibility, but above all, objective, external, independent factors are the main cause of this, including climate policy. I can't expand my wings, I'm just saying, [[Applause]] Now five minutes, and three minutes for the president. Ladies and gentlemen, if so, difficult choice, it's tempting advice. You have to make a choice in a few months or two years. If the PiS is expensive, I'm gonna go a little further and say, "What's a Platform?" The platform equals what? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the question of what choice you will make. And I can say about the Platform so hot, that if I did these posters this morning, the Platform equals prosperity, of course ironically. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Or I'd say, "Weather for the rich." That's better. But you could also tell what the Platform is associated with. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Mr. Marshal, they're short. [[Isn't that primitive?]] Excuse me... [[Speech outside the microphone]] It doesn't matter. I didn't interrupt you. Now I'm talking. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to speak. I've got more than a minute. So the platform is a decent minimum wage, 5 zlotys an hour. The platform is a decent pension, let's look at what it was like. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Platform - vacation for each family. It's the most beautiful symbol of our rule. Millions of Poles rose from their knees. What about you guys? I'll answer you now. I don't have time, that's a shame. Help for the disabled, this case in the Sejm. And the facts, the details? 2015, check this out, those who listen to us. 15 billion in total. 2021, last year, 29 billion. Facts or not? [[Applause]] And yet it's missing. Minister! By the way, quick, about helping people with disabilities. Promised? Promised. So the word is said, the flower in the fence. We have to do this, fix this mistake, at $30,000. the amount free. Tax-free amount, I'm not gonna be here for you guys anymore... And the apartment, the nest, it's family warmth. It's Christmas Eve. Who were you helping? Those who went abroad? [[Voice from the room: The richest.]] Because we're behind them. I'm just gonna finish by handing the baton to the president, and I'm just gonna say one more thing. Is KPO a Santa on a sleigh with reindeer? This is a loan program, let's be honest and give justice. To conclude, I'll say one thing. When there was a crisis, I think Marek Balicki on the radio TOK FM or ZET said this: What do I do? Where do you get the money? And Marek Balicki, like the proverbial true leftist, said, Raise taxes for the richest. What was the response of the then Minister in the Platform government? It doesn't work, because in the ministry, we've been analyzing it, it's only a billion. After a while, however, you reached out with your hands to the families of the mourners and gave several hundred million funeral benefits. What was the answer? Editor, we have to watch every dollar, but not in those pockets where there's a lot of money, but in those pockets where there's not enough money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u56	Mr Cymanski almost like Kashpirowski. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Expensive, more expensive, dark - such an energy transformation is proposed by the PiS government. The Treasury companies, instead of investing in RES, are melting money in Ostrołęki, in buying newspapers, and the rising costs are passed on to energy consumers, causing a crazy cost. [[Voice from the room: And Jaworzno doesn't work.]] The government is actually happy with expensive powers because of their sales, the free ones that it received, only this year will reach the budget of almost 30 billion, almost three times as much as it planned and... the trail of them is lost in this budget. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] What do we propose? 10 billion for a specific fund for the resilience of Polish families to your energy price increases and healthy heat, i.e. security of energy supply for Polish families and independence from costs in the form of own renewable energy sources, energy stores; energy efficiency to save consumption, avoiding energy losses in homes. We also remind you that the government should invest at least half of the ETS's money in decarbonising energy so that expensive purchases of emission allowances are not needed, because this is the only way to reduce energy costs and prices paid by citizens. Let me remind you that we also offer 1 billion for green heating in multi-family buildings. They are also the source of smog, most of the poor people live there, while the government directly supports only the owners of single-family homes. Let's do this, gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u58	Thank you very much. The remaining time allocated to the club will be used by Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Unfortunately, despite the burning appeals made by your Members from Law and Justice, we will vote against the draft budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Terrible.]] For three reasons. Firstly, the macroeconomic assumptions you have adopted are completely outdated. Next year, you're assuming an inflation rate of 3.3%. We all know she's gonna be taller. Don't make that mistake again. Or maybe it's not a mistake, maybe it's a purposeful activity. Secondly, you accepted a 1% interest rate. It already amounts to 2,25%, and the Monetary Policy Council is finally gathering to raise it. The dollar rate is PLN 3.80, at the moment PLN 4.10 and you have also underestimated the euro. That's the first reason. We've got to rewrite this. The second, probably more important, or at least more troubling, reason is that the Seym ceases to control more and more public money every year. In 2019 it decided about 90% the money that the government spent, the remaining 10% It was going through the National Road Fund, outside the budget. That was 10%. It's gonna be 40% next year. [[Applause]] 40% Public money spent by the government goes beyond parliamentary control. I do not know how you feel about this. [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] Because I understand, I know that the government is happy because it has more money to spend. [[Voice from the hall: We have confidence in the government.]] [[But we don't.]] On the other hand, that Members do not want to control... You're not fulfilling your constitutional function at all. 40% - Do you know how much that means? This means a total of PLN 350 billion more spending next year than what we see in the budget, so there is really something to lean on. And the third reason. The budget is so designed that there is virtually no money in it for the development of important areas of public and social services. There was talk of health. You write with stubbornness - 5,75% GDP, but GDP 2020 And if we refer to the GDP planned for next year, that's 4.9%. And 4.9% As we look at Eurostat statistics... Because I don't believe in what you're presenting when it comes to financing health care. Eurostat provides reliable statistics. It's been 4.9% for three years. There's no height, and we have a pandemic. Although we have a pandemic, the share of health expenditure in Poland is not increasing. This is the first case. [[Applause]] [[And the amount?]] Second thing. I want to tell you what it looks like in the context of the European Union, because it is worth looking at. As far as important areas of social services as health are concerned, we are in 23rd place in 27 countries. As far as environmental protection is concerned, we are in the 22nd place, there is virtually no increase in expenditure. As regards the fight against social exclusion - at (Ring) 22nd place. As far as scientific research is concerned, 23rd place. When it comes to building apartments, it's 24th place. Energy transformation - on the 24th place. [[Voice from the room: What time were we in?]] But there are rankings where we're higher. [[Inflation.]] Spending on the police, number six. [[Voice from the room: Is that bad?]] And now the question is what's more important. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 6th place in 2020 - gentlemen, try to listen with understanding. [[Voice from the hall: What about Belarus?]] We are not talking about Belarus, we are not talking about this year, we are talking about previous years. We are therefore dealing with a situation where there are certain priorities pursued by the Government of Law and Justice. But I do not know if they are the most important ones in the eyes of all Poles. We have the price we're talking about. We have a health crisis you can't break. We have a vaccination crisis, and you are not taking a step towards the most effective method of tackling the pandemic crisis. You're not doing anything about this. [[Voice from the O.R.: Security.]] [[Voice from the room: Is that bad?]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: How do they not move?]] We have a collapse in investment, we are in third place from the end when it comes to the level of private investment. 12.1% in 2020 Behind us is only Greece, but this is a country in crisis, and Luxembourg, but this is a country so rich that they probably no longer have anything to invest in. And it's getting worse all the time. Ladies and gentlemen! Without investment there is no development, there will be no development. We're all going on the last gas fumes when it comes to economic growth. This is still a growth financed by adding money to consumption. After all, it is no wonder that we have one of the highest inflation rates in Europe, precisely because so much money goes to the market and they do not go to investments, to develop production capacity, so that there is also a supply in the wake of demand money. Finally, we have a third crisis, ladies and gentlemen - this is a conflict with the European Union and a loss of almost EUR 50 billion. I think it's settled that we won't see a single euro this year. You still have a chance to get along with the European Union, but if you don't get along, we really won't have the money to invest. You're probably gonna cut off the local government again, or you're gonna tell us that health spending is going up in comparison to what happened in 2010 or 2015. Of course they're growing, GDP is twice as high. This is inflation, but this is also economic development. But we want more. Poles expect you to solve problems. Because there are no instruments in this budget that solve them. It's about the lack of investment, the demographic collapse, the lack of hands to work, the health crisis, the crisis when it comes to education, energy transformation, everything is collapsed. So how are we supposed to support this budget? Make it up. Right now, this is a document that's suitable for basketball. Come back again and bring a good budget for next year. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u60	We're getting to the bottom of this. This ended with speeches on behalf of clubs and circles...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! According to my observation, there are more than two minutes, exactly two minutes and eight seconds left for the Law and Justice Club. I'd like to make the time. I'm sorry, I didn't have that kind of information. I've seen it, I've remembered the clock, I'd ask for it. [[Voice from the room: Bonus, two minutes.]] No, that's not it, two minutes... There you go. Mr. Marshal! Let me start by saying that to this good budget - because I do not share the opinion of my previous speaker, however much I appreciate the preparation and substance of the statement, one of the few, maybe the only one - a handful of amendments, a dozen amendments of the club's Law and Justice, which supports this well prepared document with all its power. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me be brief. You've been in charge for eight years, and I remember budgets of about 30 billion. Right now, with a slight deficit of 30.9 billion... [[Voice from the room: How small?]] ...I hope it's going to be less - 512.4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, we do not consume this money, only government institutions, local governments, individual dispatchers. Ladies and gentlemen, I regard as a hucka a vote statement, a motion to reject the budget at second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, budget managers are waiting for money in times of crisis. We need to make a bill as soon as possible so that the President can sign it and that the money can be activated. It's what the Law and Justice government is all about, it's instant money disposal. Of course, our anti-inflationary shield goes in the same direction because we give up part of our income so that it stays in the pocket of our citizens and that they can absorb the effects of inflation. [[Voice from the room: Bonus.]] I don't want to go back to what ideas you had, but let's recall what Prime Minister Donald Tusk said about how inflation has grown to 5% in your time. He said if he had a button that would make food prices low, he'd keep pushing him. Ladies and gentlemen, he proposed to enter the euro area, which naturally increased prices in our southern neighbours. They were shopping with us in South Poland. These are not the best ways, but what was the main way to solve this situation? Raising VAT to 23%. [[Voice from the room: Did you reduce it?]] Raising the retirement age - for ladies in the countryside by 12 years, for ladies by 7 years at all, for men plus 2% to 67 years old. That's why you lost your power. You must sit still long enough and warm up the opposition bench so that the Poles forget all of this. I know you're counting on it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 20 years from now.]] [[Voice from the room: What pensions are they?]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I hear at your congress or the congress of the Noble Members on the fact that a woman is human. So how is it that you women who work hard in the countryside have raised your age, your right to get a pension, a poor pension, the kind you were offered in your day? [[Go back to the budget.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the green order. Isn't it because of your governments that the prices of CO2 emissions rights have been set free, which today generates significant inflation? [[How much do you make on this?]] [[You didn't do anything about the transformation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is different: Can the Union afford to implement today's green order policy in a situation where powers such as China, the United States, the Middle East, Indochina are withdrawing from it at all, possibly nodding? [[Ostrołęka.]] Why? To eliminate the competitiveness of the European economy. [[Applause]] Do you pass this information on to your friends in the European Parliament or in the European Union so that they can reflect on the costs of this? I am not talking about this as a tool for treating such countries in Central Europe, including Poland. I can imagine that, but that the Union itself as a whole today does not take this into account, it raises my light thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, I have, if I count correctly, about 45 minutes. Minister, not 45 minutes, but it's already out of time. [[Voice from the room: 5 seconds.]] Prime Minister! Fitch Agency, Global Economic Outlook report, GDP growth forecast is 6.4% and inflation for next year 4%. Did you notice that? Ladies and gentlemen, once again, an attempt has been made to dispersonalise the real achievements of the rule of law and justice. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say one thing: the fear and courage of the speeches that have taken place here have been mixed up. Courage was on our side. We have accepted, we want to adopt a good document in this House. [[Voice from the room: Brave raises?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have empathized citizens with fear, and we have great dreams and do not paralyze them with fear. It's a dream of prosperity for ordinary people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Meiza!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u62	Thank you very much. That's where we left off... [[I am the rapporteur. May I?]] Yes. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm in a double role today. I also have the honour to be rapporteur for the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received on my hands from the Marshal's services the amendments made at second reading. I wanted to thank all the clubs for making these adjustments... I do not forget the conclusions of minorities, which are a lot. Today they have such a tight, balanced character. I was very comforted by the announcement of one of the clubs, the Left Club, that he would like to support the budget. I have noticed that the burden of this amendment is quite large, but we will certainly be considering it. All hands on deck so that the money gets to the people as soon as possible, I'm very interested. I will also be very careful as chairman of the finance committee to try to talk about this. What I'm trying to say is that the hospital itself has been in debt for years. Here we also had an amendment of the Polish People's Party concerning 5 billion with dedication, intended to extend hospitals. A very noble purpose in today's COVID times. Let me just remind you that it was our government that actually raised it by 100%. the remuneration of doctors who work in contact with COVID patients, so that they do not lack some extreme substantive service of people who today require treatment and need care. Of course, I also note this passionate statement by Mr Richard Galla, a Member of the non-member. We will discuss this further at the meeting of the finance committee, I think with government representatives, in order to find some consensus here. I hope that happens. Nice to meet you! As President, I am also immediately asking the Members here who are taking part in the work of our committee to be personally involved, but there will be no dismissal as far as remote work is concerned, regardless of the right decision of the Marshal - because I would like us to prepare a good report for the third reading. So that all these amendments can be dealt with efficiently, I kindly ask all of you to be present and participate in our work. Tomorrow at hours. 10 we begin work in committee after second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I just want to remind you that the time you have already started here will be deducted from the time you wish to address your speeches and questions. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Yes, yes, I mean, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. I'm not gonna use that time anymore. I'll declare it.]] I see. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But please do not make such comments, because I have the impression that there are no restrictions here on speeches and questions. [[Applause]] 67 people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list again? If not, I close it by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. Mr Aleksander Anczynski will be the first question to be asked. There isn't. Therefore, we ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The yeast equals the PiS. [[Voice from the Chamber: Member, higher, higher.]] Your fault, your fault, your great fault. [[Applause]] So what I'm trying to say is that for the last six years, and you guys are complaining, VAT was 23%. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Photo taken?]] What have you done, Minister? Did this government reduce VAT for six years? No. Each month, 8 billion of our pockets each year. [[Applause]] What are you saying? Look for good arguments. [[Have you taken the picture already, Member?]] Budget. Mr Rosati said that the budget is twice as high, but you are going on debt, you are going on fumes. You're talking about transformation, pulling money out of your pocket. And you don't give them away. If you pull it out, it's like thieves don't give it back. In 2014, an application was submitted to the Court of Arbitration in Stockholm. It was returned in 2010. Remember: The platform applied for a contract (the bell), the state received 6 billion. 24 billion for CO2 emissions. During the crisis, hospitals didn't get any help. Excessive deaths, longer queues, and people die in front of hospitals. Your fault, your fault, your very big fault. [[Applause]] The piss equals the cost.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to read the amendments that concern the area 32nd district. Development of the mining site in Wojkowice. Expansion, renovation, thermomodernization of educational buildings in the area of Dąbrowa Górnicza, in Sosnowiec, in the district of Będzinsk. The reconstruction of S1 in Sosnowiec. Water and sewage management in Dąbrowa Górnicza. The reconstruction of S1 in Sosnowiec. Construction of a summer swimming pool in Będzin. Roads in the municipality of Siewierz. Renovation of the castle in Bedzin and Siewierz and many, many others. This is a dozen amendments that are made, signed. Question opened: Will Members of the High Sejm support these amendments? I'm calm about the left side. The question is addressed primarily to the right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u67	Firstly, what amount of resources in the area of special-purpose and other non-budget funds will shift from 2021 to 2022? We are talking about an expenditure paradise, which is not only in the budget reserves, but also in BGK, the Polish Development Fund, the COVID fund. This is all at the disposal of the Prime Minister and the Government, except for the Sejm's control. The question which refers to what is the real situation when it comes to financing health services, as Mrs Masłowska said. What kind of support do you provide for farmers in the situation in which we are in? Finally, with regard to the level of debt: What is the actual level of government debt at central level, but also at local level? How much money did we get from the sale of emission allowances? Where'd they go? Because they're in the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally: How do you estimate the amount of inflation tax that has, however, entered the budget, paid it to consumers? I think I'm asking for a written reply, Minister, because it's impossible to address these questions in another form. In writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u68	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the government if it realizes that the government is pretending to be a right-wing government. The difference between the right and the left is that the left wants to give as much as possible so that the budget is large so that it can be given. And the right hand wants to have a small budget so that they don't take one and give it to the other, just so that people have that money in their pocket. Because, first of all, they know better what to spend on than the government. Even if the government didn't steal, even if the government wanted the best, it still doesn't know what I did. Secondly, there is a layer of people who waste time writing applications for various reliefs, etc. It's a big, hard job. That's what people do instead of working. But fourthly, you get a huge category of people who live off these subsidies at the expense of others. What you're doing is not a right-wing policy, it's a left-wing policy. I don't even want to criticize her, let the left criticize her. It's just not a right-wing policy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u70	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It was supposed to be a program for Silesia. It was supposed to be an intelligent mine. There were supposed to be giant photovoltaic farms around Jaworzna. It was to be the Beskid Ski Centre for 500 million PLN. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Exactly.]] It was supposed to be a hydrogen production complex. There was supposed to be a drone field in the Krupinski Coal Mine. The subject of drones is best summed up by your minister, Minister Dworczyk, in these e-mails which are not his, are not yours and to which you do not admit. And the topic of your epochal program for Silesia was best summed up by the mining community, the father and godmother in one person, because she withdrew her representatives from the executive board of the program. And the head of this Solidarity said: don't do propaganda - to the Prime Minister. Either you implement this program or you let it go. So are you going to do it, or are you going to let it go?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u72	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Richard Galla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my question to the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science. In the justification for the amendment I mentioned in my speech, namely the reduction of the general subsidy in the educational part, the applicant made such a provision. He noted that from 1 September 2022 there will be a reduction from 3 hours to 1 hour, i.e. a receipt of 2 hours per week in the field of learning German as a mother tongue. I would like to ask your representative, the Minister, how this is to be carried out. How do you want to consummate this amendment? What will happen to other forms of teaching? After all, we still have bilingual classes, with extended language, and we also have other subjects in German as our mother tongue. How are you going to physically accomplish this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Is Mr Janusz Kowalski in the room? I can't see. Neither is Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. So Mr Jan Szopiński, who certainly is. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: Of course not.]] [[Voice from the room: As usual.]] [[It was always the first or the second.]] You see, sir, what is your entrée?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u75	Yes, thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no smooth operation of the police without police personnel. It's a large, almost 25,000-year-old group of professionals, IT specialists, financiers, technicians, analysts and other specialists, without whom neither the Police Headquarters nor the Police Command and Units could function at any level and any specialty. In 2022, 25% of these workers will earn the lowest national income. We have tabled an amendment marked by the number 478, which gives these workers hope. It gives us hope for a higher salary. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment gives these workers hope. The fate of these workers is in your hands, only the question is whether this fate (the bell) will also be in your hearts. Vote in favour of Amendment 478. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u76	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u77	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Our club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party has tabled a number of amendments covering important areas of our country's functioning. Among them is also the infrastructure area. I consistently ask for investments from the Łódź voivodship, road investments which I sought as a people, but they were also confirmed by your parliamentarians, and until today unfortunately have not been implemented. Therefore, I ask whether the next budget will eventually include money for the Radom ring road, the Skierniewice ring road, the Tomaszów Mazowiecki ring road, as well as the long-awaited renovation of the road from Inowłodz to Poświętne village and beyond, to the end of the voivodeship, the national road No 48, where many tragic accidents occur. This investment has been expected by the inhabitants of the Łódź voivodship for years (Dzinek). I ask you to find money for this kind of action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u78	We are now asking, if you will allow me, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u79	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm so sorry - I came straight from the committee, really, and I couldn't do it any faster. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The next year does not seem to be striking for the budget, especially for Poles, so it would be good to look for some savings. We know it would be good to look for money for expenses that are really needed, e.g. to protect health. So I have a question for the right side of the room: Will you support our amendment, the amendment of the Civic Coalition, which eliminates the curial record of transferring PLN 2 billion of public television to Mr.Jack Kurski each year? [[Applause]] It seems to me that taxpayers' money should not serve the lie, rudeness and sting (The bell) of a Pole on a Pole. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Adam Michnik.]] [[Voice from the room: Icon.]] [[Voice from the room:. Wyborcza.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u81	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The budgetary debate is always a debate on the empty promises and godly wishes of the governing party. Of course, we're also talking about some degree of distribution here, so let's go into it and talk about what's really important. In January of this year, I gave a speech from the Parliamentary Speaker as part of the Members' statements on children suffering from SMA. At that time, we talked about the enormous cost for the parents of these children and how dramatic their situation is: they have to raise money so that their child has any chance of survival and life in a reasonably normal way. There are also many other diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, but there are also many rare diseases that the NFZ does not deal with, it washes hands. The state doesn't care, which is why there are a lot of charities that collect money, because it turns out that people, although oppressed by your taxes, are still very sacrificial. I would like to ask where the budget includes additional funds for the treatment of rare diseases (the bell), especially children who suffer from it, most recently. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Then we'll move it. And now Mr Andrzej Costowniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two very short questions. Minister! One question about inflation in Poland and Europe: How many countries in the European Union since the start of COVID-19 have seen an increase in inflation? I would ask you to give us all this information because I think some of us are running away. And a second short question. I would like to compare two periods that seem somewhat similar. There was also some inflationary pressure under the Civic Platform. I would like to ask what tools were used at the time to combat this inflation. We heard Donald Tusk, who was clear that if he had this button, he'd press it all the time, push it all the time, and some say he'd even wrap it in the paperwork later. [[Voice from the room: 6 years!]] I have a question that the current government will use the tools to (the bell) fight inflation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u84	Thank you very much. Can I ask you not to discuss with the questioner? Because then we don't understand anything at all. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u85	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! That costume where did it come from? E.g. from your non-work in the field of energy transformation. [[Applause]] The fact that rights today cost €87 compared to 2016, when they cost €6 is your problem. You have done nothing about change, energy transformation. You've blocked the development of RES, windmills on land, you're blocking photovoltaics in terms of your own cheap electricity. You're not doing anything about it. You didn't build an energy network to support photovoltaics. Minister! You signed it in May this year. so-called. Social agreement in Silesia with the miners, and what did you promise? You promised that by the end of September you would establish the Silesian Transformation Fund - a law. The basic question is, when are you gonna do it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today is December 14th. What kind of funds are you securing for this fund? Today, you didn't estimate the revenue from the emissions. You're talking about almost PLN 15 billion. What are you spending your money on? And this year it is over PLN 24 billion. And next year, how much? Thirty-forty billion? And what are they gonna go for? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u87	It must sound loud and clear. The PiS in its budget has planned millions to check-in for its released notes. He also planned millions for the unknown. For months in the freezer, there's been my social services bill. It's about people working there making even better money. During the pandemic, we saw what an important, responsible job it was. Those people with their wards had to live there during quarantine. But PiS doesn't care about social services houses and how our seniors end their lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u88	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u89	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Among the amendments I tabled to the budget are extremely important related to the construction of infrastructure, among others. construction of the Beskidzka Integration Road and the collision-free crossings in Pszczyna and in Czechowice-Dziedzice, with voivodship roads, among others. in the powiats Cieszyński, żywiecki and Bielski. I wanted to ask the Minister whether the government would support these amendments, which stem from the real needs of our region. To put it simply, if these roads are not repaired, there is no hope that there will be significant economic acceleration in this region, but that economic acceleration we need. I also wanted to ask if the government would support my proposal, my amendment on the fight against smog in this one of the most polluted regions (The Bell) in terms of air pollution across Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft state budget for 2022 is primarily security - security of Poland, security of all citizens. The draft budget so designed makes us realize our commitments to NATO. We allocate PLN 57,800 million to national defence, we implement our commitments to NATO at 2.2% GDP. It's very important. On the other hand, we have adequate police funding, we spend nearly PLN 11 billion on it, we increase this amount. We allocate PLN 3400 million to the State Fire Department. By PLN 100 million more will be transferred to the Border Guard - the budget of the Border Guard is PLN 1800 million. I would like to appeal to all parliamentarians, and especially to the Members of the opposition (the bell), to support this budget, to support the security of Poland, to support the security of all citizens, which is ensured in this budget, which was presented by the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u92	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question, Marshal Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The United Right, going to the elections six years ago, talked about important changes in the justice system. Today, after six years, even the rulers do not question the fact that it is bad. You are proposing an increase in the remuneration of administrative staff, court curators and prosecutors at a level that will not even cover inflation. You don't listen to those employees who tell you how low the pay is in the courts or the prosecution's office. You're calculating some average wages that have nothing to do with reality. I can't imagine you guys trying to fix the justice system without making up for the people who work in this dimension, the administrative staff, the curators... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Marshal. Once again, please allow your colleague to speak. ...or employees of the D.A.'s office. This vote (the bell) will prove whether you want to straighten the justice system or continue to take it politically. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u94	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Smishek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the budget for 2022, money is planned for everything - for funds, for institutes, for synecures for relatives and friends of rabbit. What's no money planned for? Increases for the officials of administrative courts and prosecutors who have been on strike for months, for those on whom our justice system is based, for tens of thousands of people who are very often invisible, who create, together with independent judges, the Polish justice system. These are the people through whom our constitutional law, our right to court, is realized even in such difficult times as the times of law and justice that dismantle the justice system. Therefore, the Left Club submitted an amendment to the amount of PLN 184 million. It is really not much on the scale of the entire budget, but very much for those thanks to which Poles can still count on the justice system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call on all political forces, but above all the Law and Justice, to support this amendment. Justice is not just independent judges who deserve respect and dignity. They are also hard-working administrative staff - and in courts, and in prosecutors' offices. Let's make their lives a little better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u96	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Maximowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to Mr Janczyk's statement, which, unfortunately, should be taken as a joke in the context of the Medical Fund. I quote: What is characterized by the Law and Justice is the immediate disposal of money. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is basically tragic: 4 billion zlotys founded, of which 171 million zlotys spent, right? It's cumulative, it'll be transferred to later. Is there no need, or is it not possible for you to distribute it? Or maybe it's even worse, maybe it's decided to accumulate the resources, because the needs of cancer patients, dying children can wait? Maybe it's only supercoumulation in 2023 that lets you give out gifts to win the election. Is that even possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u98	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! In 2018, the Minister of Infrastructure secured additional funding for aviation education for students in the 2019 budget. This was due to the dynamic development of the aviation market. At that time public universities training aviation personnel received the amount of PLN 24 million and this amount remained to date. The universities expect this amount to be increased by PLN 10 million. I therefore ask the Minister of Infrastructure: Is it possible to make such a shift in section 39: Transport? The aim is to ensure that civil aviation pilot education institutions are able to carry out their important tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u100	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What do we see in this budget? We see a lie at the root of all these calculations. [[Applause]] There's talk of 3.3% inflation, while we go into the store and see there's definitely more. Poles see the lie, more and more clearly. What do they see? They see the truth: PiS = expensive. [[Applause]] And you're not gonna get away with it. You can't get away with this: PiS = expensive. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The challenges facing Poland are transformational challenges. Every responsible government would have to stand in the truth and say, for example.: Energy transformation is ahead. We are looking at the budget and we do not see such consistent (The Bell) data on energy transformation. Support our amendment: energy transformation - PLN 10 billion so that the current, the price of which will go crazy next year, will be much cheaper. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Tusk's gonna make her crazy.]] [[It's your six years. Get to work.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Relax, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u102	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In addition to this unrealistic inflation, unreal GDP, unreal GDP growth, is also planned for next year. On the other hand, I have a question about these famous funds. The truth is, in this budget, just like in the previous budgets... Actually, we spend the second budget in these different funds and subsidiaries. There's this Capital Investment Fund. The price of energy is so high, among others. because the write-downs from the dividends of the companies of the State Treasury go, among other things. for this Capital Investment Fund. There will probably be about PLN 1 billion at the disposal of the Prime Minister. My question is: What are the plans for the purchase of shares of companies by the Prime Minister and which companies do we want to buy? Are these other media companies, or is this TVN? What are you going to use that money for? [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u104	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes I get the feeling that some of you in the opposition really care about taking a good picture with this red card. You say, raise it higher, it'll look better. [[Can I get you one?]] Minister! I'm going back to the modernization bill. There is a fairly clear situation regarding investments in four uniformed services. I ask you to answer the question: What wage developments in this modernization bill will be undertaken from 2022 onwards as regards four services: Border Guard, Police, SOP, Fire Department? Finally, the rhetorical question to the opposition, which no one can answer, and it has been valid for decades. What is better: low inflation (the Bell) and higher unemployment or lower unemployment and higher inflation? It can't be reconciled with just one cut and one decision. Thank you very much. [[Yeast plus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u106	Thank you very much. [[Oh, not even the PiS supports, sir.]] [[You have to tell the truth.]] [[Voice from the room: You always have to tell the truth.]] [[Your picture's already taken.]] The question will now be asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u107	Minister! Prime Minister! As Chair of the Parliamentary Group on the Diabetes I cannot imagine that next year's budget will not include an amendment from the Parliamentary Group on: Diabetes patients with diabetes mellitus. This group will be refunded with modern medicines such as flozin and incretin, and modern glycaemic monitoring systems, as well as access to insulin pumps. Ladies and gentlemen! Diabetes is called the first non-infectious pandemic in the world. It is not a coincidence, because 3 million people have already experienced it in Poland, while 5 million people are a risk group. You don't have to be an outstanding mathematician to realize that 8 million people in Poland have this disease or are about to develop it. Ladies and gentlemen! At a time of pandemic, when we're struggling with the coronavirus, diabetes is the first underlying disease that predisposes us to the severe passage of COVID-19. At this point, without helping diabetes, we're putting them at risk of losing their lives and their health. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Prime Minister! I can't imagine this amendment won't get your approval. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u108	The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Trela.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 3 May, you submitted a project for the National Reconstruction Plan. It was about PLN 270 billion to help local governments, entrepreneurs and citizens. That money isn't here this year, and all indications are that they won't be here next year. The local government won't get that money either. That's why I made two amendments. The first amendment allocates 62 600 000. PLN for investments in cultural and educational facilities in Łódź. The second amendment allocates 23 100,000. PLN for reconstruction of road-rail crossing on national road No 71 in Pabianice. I would like to ask the Minister whether local governments that do not receive European funds because of their unreasonable, irrational policy (the bell) towards the European Union can count on the support of the Minister and the majority of the Law and Justice? It is about supporting these two amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u110	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Paul Rychlik's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition is talking today about an increasing price of energy. It should be recalled that this is the aftermath of the decision of Donald Tusk from 2014 to 2015. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, yes.]] [[Six years.]] Dear Poles! Today, no one but Donald Tusk is responsible for the increase in energy prices, who in the proposed budgets wrote down current income from privatisation, i.e. the plunder of national assets. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Don't be ridiculous.]] [[And now, Obejtek...]] Minister! I'd like to ask what remains and dividends are of this looting. How many companies of the Treasury are left? What resources will be entered in the State budget for this purpose in 2022? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u112	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. I can't see either. Mrs Margaret Janyska is in the room. [[There will be no raises. That's what Prime Minister Morawiecki said.]] Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. I was gonna say that the voice has... [[And Eve Kicker said they'd be there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Government! Actually the most expensive government, because it is the most expensive since 2015, more expensive by 664%. [[Applause]] What are you getting paid for, dearest? I feel like I'm wasting my money for shoving them through funds outside the budget so that no one can control you for shoving debt outside by issuing debt papers so no one can control you. You cannot multiply money or do what you are called to do. Because of this activity Poles will soon have to go shopping with bags of money much bigger than bags of groceries which they will make with this money. [[Applause]] I have a question for you, my dears. Did you do something about KPO? Where's KPO? Where are the resources for local governments, for local communities (the bell), which communities should receive because you rob them of their own income? I'm not gonna ask you about the bridges, the railroads, the PKS in every village... [[Circuits.]] ...about the bypasses. Why? Because we will hear the sacramental: we would like to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u114	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Wiesław Buj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u115	You left the device behind. You're welcome. [[You can take advantage of the thought...]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The COVID-19 Pandemic has made digital transformation have a huge impact on the public and private sector, and above all on local businesses, including small gastronomy and taxi transport. Many entrepreneurs have been sentenced to the mercy of global digital giants and services are performed using applications. World tycoons impose unfavorable conditions for small and medium-sized companies. What's the government going to do about it? Economists assess, and entrepreneurs know from their own experience, that such actions cause huge losses to the state budget. They point to the fact that financial transfer is avoided and tax obligations are avoided. The Polish economy should be resistant to digital giants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How, then, does the government intend to end the transfer of financial giants in international trade in order to improve the state's budgetary position? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u116	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you, the Minister of Justice and his closest colleagues, understand the impact the secretariats have on the functioning of the courts and the prosecutions? As a lawyer with over 30 years internship, I spent thousands of hours in the secretariats and witnessed this hard, stressful, responsible, even Benedictine work. Without this job, which really requires high qualifications, courts and prosecutors cannot function properly. Pay taunts the principle of fair pay. The rotation of HR is completely understandable, but it involves leaving experienced people and teaching new ones. The fact that the term of hearing of cases has been extended for this Minister of Justice, often twice, is also due to the pay situation of judicial staff and prosecutors. At this cost, the salaries of the administrative staff of the courts and the prosecutors' office (the bell) are humiliating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u118	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I represent the ridges of Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. I am from Szczecin, a city which, as well as its surroundings, is considered to be one of the cities which are particularly excluded from communication. We are very far from the nearest high-speed roads and we have been very hoping for years to remodel the S11 expressway. This year the building on the Koszalin - Bobolice section began. That, of course, is not enough. We in Szczecin, and I will remind you that this is probably the most industrially developed area in the Central Pomerania, we are still waiting for the construction of the Bobolice - Szczecinek section. The ZRID has already appeared, i.e. works began, i.e. in the coming months the construction of the section between Bobolicy and Szczecin could begin (the bell) to be implemented. There's only money secured to buy the land. That is why my amendment concerns an increase in funding for this section of the road, which we need very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You often say that the high energy prices are Donald Tusk's fault, but when Tusk ruled, the emission permits were six euros each, and when you rule, they're 85. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[PiS's faults.]] I say that with a certain degree of malice, of course, because you realize that it is not up to you. But I suggest we bring this discussion to really substantive arguments. [[Your fault, your fault, your very big fault.]] I also want to tell you that 40% Government expenditure that goes beyond Parliament, beyond this House and beyond your control - I point to Members of the Law and Justice Club - means that there is a lack of control over a huge part of public finances. In short, because we know where the money goes, they often go to various foundations, for example. to support (The Bell) of the Independence March, or to Fr Rydzyk. What I'm trying to say is this is a really big money launderer and you have to stop it. Two corrections at the end. Mrs Masłowska said that in the 20th century we had already had higher inflation and stated as an example of July 2020. I would like to say that July 2020 was in the last century, not in this. [[Applause]] Finally, President Janczyk said that inflation is planned for next year at 4%. I may have misheard it, but once again I stress: you have planned inflation at 3.3 and you must consider it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u122	Thank you very much. And one last question to the Minister, if he is. I mean FRA rates, which clearly indicate inflation expectations above 3%. Please tell me how the Ministry of Finance will finance loan needs, and how will this affect the budget? [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u123	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I see you have three rules: to rob entrepreneurs, to indebt the state and to turn inflation. You have forgotten that the role of the state should be to support the most entrepreneurial people and reach out to them with help, not to collect further taxes. From next year you'll hit the entrepreneurs with a new order. I know an example of a carpenter who from next year will pay 400 zł each month more taxes because of your decisions. You have been taxing double the number of family businesses recently, and many companies, such as those with large production halls, even have to pay a rain tax. You are co-responsible for this inflation because you have imposed a number of taxes: power levy, trade tax, sweetened drink tax, and it is true that you take responsibility for this. And what's more important (the bell), you owe this country the fastest in history. By the end of next year it will already be over PLN 1.5 trillion. It's practically 40 grand. zł per head of every Pole. Thank you very much, sir. This is your responsibility. This is the whole truth about your governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u124	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As subordinate Members of the Civic Coalition, we have tabled 27 amendments to this budget, regional, and very important amendments. Today I would like to call on all Members of the Law and Justice to look at these amendments beyond the political divisions, because these are really very important investments for the Podlaskie voivodship. If you care about the inhabitants of the Podlaskie voivodship, if you care about local governments from the Podlaskie voivodship, you will certainly support these amendments, because among other things we have an amendment concerning the national road No. 8 from Białystok to the Raczki node. This is the first stage, 100 million PLN. This is the way of death and must be done as soon as possible. That is why we give PLN 100 million to start working on this road. But not only this, because also an increase in the educational part of subsidies for local governments from the province (Dzwonek) of Podlaskie. We want the education subsidy to be 7 million more, because the local government simply doesn't have enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u127	Dear Marshal! I would like to say very clearly, especially to the Warsaw women and Warsaw people, that Polish Load drains the budget of the capital city of Warsaw from money. Warsaw will lose PLN 1 billion a year on the Polish Lada, even though it will receive 400 million compensation. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The price for electricity only in the case of Metro Warszawski next year will increase by 86%. Close to the Sejm, less than 500 meters from here is a very famous high school im. Batorego. This high school has already calculated that in their case the price of electricity will increase by 75%. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore make concrete amendments, amendments of an investment nature with regard to Warsaw. It is about building a music centre Sinfonia Varsovia, building a show and sports hall at the National Stadium, rebuilding the Skra stadium, roofing the Stegna skating track. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] But also, ladies and gentlemen, here is the amendment I make at the request of Mrs Wanda Traczyk-Stawska. It is about PLN 3 million at the Remembrance Chamber at the Warsaw Insurgents' Cemetery. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government transferred 3 billion PLN to Bąkiewicz. If you want to give Bąkiewicz, remember the civil population of Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u128	Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were supposed to be new ferries built in Polish Szczecin shipyards, and there is rusty keel and international shame. There were supposed to be powerful wind farms on the Baltic shelf, but there is no energy transformation, the current is more expensive, and now it's beginning to run out. There was supposed to be money for child psychiatry, which we insist on all the time. What's left of it? A black phone call of trust. You can't carry out big structural projects, so why don't you finance those who can - local governments? I tabled Amendment 14 concerning the construction of the Gryfic ring road, the amount of PLN 50 million. I call on the members of the PiS representing the Gryfic district to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The whole West Pomeranian Voivodeship.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u131	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From this point on behalf of the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, I would like to appeal for the support of the amendment that we have prepared, according to which additional resources should be allocated to increase the remuneration of civil servants of both police units: voivodeship commands, district commands and civil border guards. [[Applause]] As you know, border guards and police officers are doing very difficult work and very hard service at the border right now. On the other hand, their colleagues, with whom they work at desks, have no extras, have no raises. From 1 January the officer will receive on average PLN 677 raises, while his colleague, a civilian worker - only PLN 167. That means almost 30,000. the employees of the civilian district and voivodship police command will work again for the lowest national. This can't be right. On behalf of the Parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition, I ask you very much, Minister, to accept an amendment which will give the sense of the work of civil service officers, because they cannot work for such an extremely small amount of money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u132	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How many times have you said that you want to help the weakest? Meanwhile, you're paying for the most expensive Christmas ever. Today shopping is twice as expensive as in 2015, and the weakest ones are the ones who have the biggest consequences of having such an expensive price, and you don't do anything about it. A little over a week ago at the finance committee we tabled an amendment on the funding of child psychiatry, which is also about the weakest, the most deprived. The PiS members rejected this amendment, whose adoption would cost PLN 200 million. It shows how much you care about the youngest ones, the weakest ones. You don't have any money on them. You have money for everything else. That is why we call for you to correct your mistakes when voting on the budget, because then we will also make amendments on child psychiatry (the bell), health. Try to fix it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why are the measures planned in the section on subsidies and resources for local government tasks insufficient in the draft budget law? Such a situation can lead many local governments to bankruptcy. An example of Częstochowa: an educational subsidy lower by 150 million than the amount to be secured for the implementation of the tasks imposed, reduced tax on individuals - 88 million, including energy cost, salary increases. The total budget of the city was reduced by 260 million. With regard to the budget law, I have submitted many regional proposals, which are very important when considering Poland's development strategy. These are the conclusions concerning: construction of the road node DK 1, DK 46, extension of ul. 1 May to ul. Krakowska, along with the viaduct over the tracks, the construction of a tram line to the north district or the modernization of the theatre in Częstochowa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is: Will there be funds for these tasks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u136	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! How many more people must die in Poland for you to see? We are making an amendment for the amount of PLN 20 billion to save people in a pandemic. Over 80,000. more Poles died because the system stopped working. In the field of child psychiatry, we make an amendment for the amount of PLN 100 million. There have been more than 1,000 suicide attempts among children. This can't be right. Take a real look at it. We have the biggest mortality in a pandemic, the biggest inflation and the biggest cost in Europe. Something's got to be done about it. We want to transfer PLN 1 billion to farmers for subsidies to very expensive fertilisers in this situation. We want teachers to have raises from 1 January, so we are making an amendment of PLN 6.5 billion. Finally, we want to value the civil servants of the courts and the prosecution, as well as the administrative staff of the police and the Border Guard. I would also like to make one amendment, which is a reflection of (the bell) of your incompetent governments as in the lens. For the amount of PLN 15 million, I make an amendment concerning the footbridge collapsed 3 years ago in the course of the national road in Lublin. That's what your governments look like. Thank you. Finally find money for such small investments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The piss equals the cost. PiS is galloping prices. It's inflation. It's obvious. But PiS isn't just expensive. PiS is also a loss of several tens of billion zlotys in KPO, because you are arguing about a disciplinary chamber. The PiS are also penalties imposed by the Court of Justice. This is €1.5 million a day, a total of €80 million has already been raised. [[Applause]] The piss is every day 500 people who die. It's been 150,000 since the start of the pandemic. unnecessary, oversized deaths. And with all that, the PiS is 4.89%. GDP for health protection. And since we are in health care, we have tabled some amendments concerning Małopolska, among others. for county hospitals, roads, rail links, air protection. So? Will you support these amendments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will not support them because you must spend on nationalists, on Tadeusz Rydzyk, on anti-vaccines, on TVP Info and finally on EU penalties. Thank you. And all to keep trying to stay at the trough. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! It was strong.]] [[Fire.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u140	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u141	Dear Marshal! The absent Prime Minister! High Izbo! Polish airports lost 640 million PLN in 2020. The amount of 142 million aid granted in 2021 was insufficient. In a situation where the so experienced pandemic aviation industry heals wounds, the Polish Air Navigation Agency increases the fees for its terminal services to these airports. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It's almost 40% higher. Who's gonna pay for this? The passenger will pay. Tickets will be more expensive, like everything else, according to your program. [[Voice from the room: Polish Lad.]] Together with a group of members of the Civic Coalition Club, we have tabled an amendment granting 50 million targeted grants to maintain terminal charges at the current level. If you really want Polish airports to continue to be a window to the world for the regions, then support this amendment. The aviation industry expects this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u142	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft budget is cut under the activists and politicians of Law and Justice. In this budget there will be no shortage for the Patriotic Fund, the National Institute of Freedom, the Polish National Foundation, the Justice Fund or the ecological fund. For all these funds, institutes are money. What do you have for people? For people, you've had the most expensive Christmas in 20 years. Christmas is the most expensive Christmas in 20 years. Well, even though there's very high inflation -- 7 percent -- if anyone wants to buy a carp, they'll pay 260% for it. more than a year ago, for cod will pay 220% more than a year ago, for oranges - 100% more than a year ago, for raisins - 300% more than a year ago, for herring - 50% more, for sugar - 25% More. Unfortunately, the dream of Prime Minister Morawiecki is coming true, who said that people have, I say gently, to work for a bowl of rice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yeah, because there's nothing else to suggest, he didn't do anything to make this inflation and this expensive stuff much lighter, just like it's in other countries. Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki, but he's not in the O.R. Let many Poles answer the question not only about how to live, but also how to survive until the first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u144	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The budgetary debate shall take place without the Minister of Finance. Why? That's because it's the worst budget, the budget plus, the virtual accounting, the loose budget, the budget of spending on its own, including checks, the increase in spending for the Prime Minister and the President. And on the other side, what do we see? Raiding local governments, for the poorest, a cover supplement of PLN 17 and for real health care, on average about 5% during the pandemic. From this point of view, we demand an increase of 20 billion for health care, in particular oncology, the Lublin Land Oncology Centre, county hospitals, pediatric branches in Puławy, Lubartów, Janów Lubelski and to cover many other expenses and investment costs in the poorest voivodships in Lublin, which is one of the poorest regions in Poland. And I appeal to the Members of the Lublin Region not to be afraid to raise their hands on the right thing. This budget (the bell), ladies and gentlemen, is an expensive budget, an unfair budget. And we don't have our permission to do that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u146	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u147	High Izbo! It is said that PiS has a service to what is national, everything national, but there is an exception: it is about national cultural heritage. Well, we have 80,000 in Poland. landmarks, several hundred thousand moving. How much is provided for the protection of monuments in the budget of the Republic of Poland? PLN 177 million, 1/3 promila. One-third of the radius! That's how much we give to protect the monuments. Of course, I don't have to say that most of this money goes to religious objects. So PiS doesn't protect monuments at all. If it hadn't been for the work of local governments, if it hadn't been for EU funds, the majority would have fallen apart. It's a shame and a disgrace. Maybe we should finally do something about this national disgrace so that what is our heritage, what we have received from previous generations, is indeed protected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And an example. Opolskie Voivodeship - 3366 monuments. How many regional monument conservationists does it have? 700,000. That's what your rule looks like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u148	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Warsaw people are our fellow voters, they are the full citizens of this country, which we in this House should take care of together. Meanwhile, they've become some sort of political obsession of yours. You lose another election in Warsaw. Instead of taking the consequences, changing your attitude, attitude, proposing other solutions, you want to play more and more in Warsaw. You have excluded them from the local investment fund, now you are killing Polish Ład, on which Warsaw will lose 1 billion PLN and even increases resulting from inflation. That is why we would like to support Warsaw by submitting amendments. I, as a Warsaw Member, was the head of the Parliamentary Group. M.S. I reported more than 20 of them to Warsaw. It goes on, among other things. for the construction of crèches in three districts, the purchase of low-carbon buses (the bell), support for urban hospitals, support for the senior's daily residence home, anti-violence programme among children. You have a chance to meet the needs of the Warsaw people and stop treating them as your political opponents. We'll check you out. So that you support our amendments and meet your needs, show the Warsaw people... Thank you very much. ...that their needs are important to you too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u150	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's expensive, but we all know it's gonna be even more expensive. Food prices are rising and this is particularly worrying Poles today. Why is it more expensive? Because the price of artificial fertilisers is also rising. Today, fertilisers are 100%, 200%, sometimes 260% more expensive. What does the government propose? You know the minister? Your government colleague has proposed to the agricultural chambers that farmers redirect their interest to increasing their share of organic fertilization. [[Voice from the room: Read everything, not...]] We propose a different solution: let's pay farmers more when buying fertilizers. We've tabled an amendment. We propose that if you want food to be cheaper, PiS will support the amendment. 800 million for aid for the purchase of fertilisers for farmers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm friendly and I'm addressing my friends from PiS: if anyone wants, I'd be happy to borrow it so you can take a picture of it. [[Can you give it to me?]] Yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good budget for Poland, this is not a good budget for Poles. The year 2022, all this indicates, will be a very expensive year, perhaps the most expensive one. That is why we call once again for you to support our proposals to increase funding for health care, for teachers, for civil servants, the Border Guard, the Public Prosecutor's Office or the courts. We also ask and request that there be funds for farmers' subsidies, because farmers are in a very difficult situation today, but also for support for local authorities, which are in a state of emergency. The state has no moral law (the bell) to say that there is no money in the budget, since there is money to pay 1.5 million penalties every day to the European Union, and since you are blocking internal games yourself, you are causing that we cannot receive billions from the European Union. Support our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u154	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki in the room, but a few months ago he was here and he said: [[Voice from the room: It's jammed, unprepared.]] [[Marek Owl plays the recording from his mobile phone: However, despite your mistakes, huge mistakes from the past I would like to say: there will be no increase in energy prices.]] [[He lied.]] [[Voice from the room: Pinocchio.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the first time Prime Minister Morawiecki lied, lied to Poles and Poles because he is the last person who cares about cheap energy, cheap fuel, cheap products. He is a person who wants to rip off the last penny from Poles at all costs, wants them to only have a bowl of rice left. This is the real image of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS = expensive. It's your trademark, it's the PiS trademark, because you're doing everything you can to make sure that the inflationary tax into the budget gets as much as possible. Only thanks to this inflation will you benefit, you will gain PLN 30 billion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u157	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to say it again because I say it and the experts say it: you don't know the economy. I don't think you even know what an economy is. You think it's a cow that can only be milked or a bank that can only be used for money. This year, in the OECD tax system ranking, we have the penultimate position behind Italy. You hit Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, not corporations, because these Polish companies cannot afford tax advisors and to fight for their rights, for their money with the tax for many years. There are a few questions left, ladies and gentlemen. Why are you destroying the economic success of several generations of Poles and Poles? Why are you significantly increasing public burdens for entrepreneurs at this very difficult and economically unstable time? Why are you destroying Polish small and medium-sized enterprises? Why do you complicate the rules instead of simplifying them? I hope you know the saying that Kazimierz the Great found Poland wooden and left it brick. The only thing left for you are the splinters. You are economically retreating Poland by decades. And besides, Marshal, I believe that Ostrołęka must be counted and counted and the guilty punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the transparency of public finances. This information should be given to Poles. We know that 350 billion are already outside the control of the High House today, and in this budget on five pages, 72 are almost PLN 40 billion hidden in various reserves, which will be mobilised for various expenses, more or less necessary, after six months. We demand that this amount be used to implement the amendments we have tabled. That amount is quite enough. We don't agree that almost 10% Budget revenue was hidden in reserves. [[Applause]] There are very interesting records here, e.g. reserve for systemic changes and some organisational changes (The Bell), including new tasks - here are further institutes, etc., etc. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u160	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u161	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about securing funds in the budget for 2022 for the decommissioning of environmental bombs, which is the landfill of hazardous waste from former chemical plants. I mean Tarnowskie Góry Chemical Plant, Zachem Chemical Plant in Bydgoszcz, Organika-Azot Plant in Jaworz or Boruta Colour Industry Plant in Zgierz. On the example of the first one, i.e. Tarnowskie Góra Chemical Works, I can say that 2/3 of the work on securing these hazardous waste has already been carried out, carried out in the past, but since 2015 no further actions have been carried out, but the Ministry of the Environment has set up a special team on degraded areas. This team held several meetings, but the meetings themselves did not contribute to solving the problem. In response to my interpellation of February this year. Minister of Climate and Environment informed me that the rehabilitation of sites after these chemical plants will be financed by the National Plan for Reconstruction. But there has been a problem - this (Bingle) National Reconstruction Plan is still not approved, it is not known when it will be approved, not really this year. Poland is already losing money for this. So the question is: Are the funds for these tasks secured in the next year's budget? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is a substantive question, one of the few.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u162	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! PiS = cost for social workers. In the draft budget law, I found no provision for wage increases for social workers, nurses, carers, carers, rehabilitators, therapists in social services homes. Each of these professional groups, mentally and physically burdened especially during the pandemic period, performs an extremely responsible job, is devoted to independent people, for sick people, people with disabilities. DPSs are not medical establishments and therefore employees, carrying out very similar duties as care and care workers or nurses in hospital departments, are not covered by the wage grid in force in healthcare. This pay gap results in the outflow of skilled staff from social services homes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will this problem be solved? Tomorrow? The day after tomorrow? In social assistance homes there will be sick people, there will be elderly people, there will be people with disabilities, but there will be no one who can take care of them, who will take care of them and take care of them. Thank you very much. PiS is a cost for social workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u164	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not a budget made for Poles, this is a budget for the PiS. How much money is hidden in there to make the PiS government feel better, we don't know that exactly, ladies and gentlemen, because the government is going to feed - even if it's expensive, the government is just going to print more money. Health care is underfunded, which already operates on the edge, agriculture is falling, energy is in a critical situation, ignorance about renewable energy sources, etc., etc. The Civic Coalition has made excellent proposals for amendments. Please accept them. The budget is to be improved in every part, because it is one big unknown. We don't really know what our country's debt is, but it doesn't mean anything to the government right now. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, half a thousand people die on COVID. It's terrifying because everyone's taken it as a normal situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Selfishness and ruthlessness - and all this, all for power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You've been in charge for six years. PiS = expensive. The name of your party is synonymous with expensive. In November inflation reached 7.7% And today, in the last hours, when we're in this room, as in the past few years and days, you're very happy with yourselves. I don't know what you're excited about. You also like the budget for next year. It's a budget that lacks money for everything: health, ecology, energy transformation. There's no money left for that. Maybe you'll give at least PLN 6.5 billion to teachers. This money is simply due to the fact that they care about your children, that they stand in a school where you try to indoctrinate them and try to indoctrinate them. Give the teachers money (the bell) because they deserve it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u168	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, PiS is expensive. Secondly, she is right, Mrs Skowronska, who says that this is your fault, a great fault. [[Applause]] Third, I'm looking in the budget for 2022 for road money. I open the portal of the Ministry of Infrastructure, bookmark: Government Road Development Fund, formerly the Self-Government Road Fund, formerly Schetinówki, and look for a decision on the selection of proposals for 2021. Where there are bypass tasks, there is no settlement, and I know that all procedures have been completed. It's on the desk of Prime Minister Morawiecki and waiting for his signature. He's not signing. Why? He probably doesn't have any money. And there are, among other things, waiting there. documents relating to the Dresdenek ring road, the New Salt ring road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also no settlement on municipal and district tasks, because there is no money. Bypasses are waiting in Lubuskie voivodship. North bypass of Gorzów, south bypass of Green Mountain, bypasses of Słubice, Kożuchowa, Krosna Odrzański, Kostrzyna nad Odra. Finish it, Member. We will not find money in this budget for the Świebodzin ring road, Nowogrod Bobrzańskiego, Kargowa, as well as the Łagów junction on the A2 motorway... Thank you very much. ...and that's what we're asking for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! The piss is expensive. It's expensive every day, but most of all it's going to be the most expensive Christmas in 20 years. You want to help Poles - you give 17 PLN per head. And Prime Minister Morawiecki and his wife in one day, ladies and gentlemen, how much do they get? 14 million PLN. That's your real face. [[Applause]] You say eight years of the Civic Platform. Let's compare. What was the level of inflation in 2015 when we left governments? 0%. What will inflation be like in 2022? Probably over 8%. They're concrete. [[Applause]] The average loan instalment for 3 months, ladies and gentlemen, will increase by PLN 300. You're talking about debt and how well you're doing. Let's see. 2015 Each Pole has a debt of 20,000. PLN, and after years of your reign - 40 thousand. zł. The sum of debt is PLN 1 trillion 400 million. And a symbol. You're supporting the Mass. You support a man who (the bell) preyed on the harm of children. Parents of children with SMA collect money every day. It takes 8 million PLN for therapy. They cannot raise this amount, for example. in Obszyń. You support the House, and you don't support parents like that. Do something about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u172	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u173	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! Minister Meizo! I have a question for Prime Minister Morawiecki. Is it true that you sent a text to a high official of the European Commission asking for help for Poland to receive money, and you signed, quote, the last European in the government? Did the Prime Minister mean to tell you that the non-Europeans rule us? On whose behalf is the current government implementing its anti-European policy? After all, our support for the Union is the highest in Europe and is 90%. We're talking about the budget here. We're all suffering from high inflation and expensive. Why is the government opposed to receiving an advance from the Fund for Reconstruction of PLN 22 billion? Why do you care all over the government, Prime Minister? Or maybe it's not the government that's in charge. Then who is in charge of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister! I appeal for an honest answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u174	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for your fellow Members from Law and Justice. Do you ever go to a grocery store? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] If you're walking, you know it's true. [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: Higher.]] There you go. For the last six years of your government, prices have gone up in food stores in an unimaginable way. [[Voice from the room: You already have a nice picture.]] Over the last year, the basic shopping cart has been 35% expensive. You have been funding Poles the most expensive Christmas for 20 years. What are you planning on next year's budget? Another PLN 214 million increase in expenditure at the Prime Minister's firm. 2 billion PLN for public propaganda on TVP. And millions more, tens of millions of zlotys per meadow in Baranów. I'm asking if these millions are gonna bring him to school for extra English or for children's math. [[Applause]] Or will there be beds in the pediatric wards (the bell) that are so needed? [[Applause]] Or is it because of this money that more children will be born in vitro in Poland? No. You are completely detached from reality, but Poles and Poles walk hard on the ground and say: PiS must go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u176	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You've been in charge for six years. This is the result of your actions, the result of the fact that the cost in Poland is due to Law and Justice. The fact that we have expensive fuel, the fact that we have expensive energy, the fact that food products are expensive, is also the result of work not one but the head of the energy commission and the state assets of Marek Suski. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is because of these governments that we will have the most expensive holidays in 20 years. But in order to compensate the radoms, the inhabitants of Radom land for these huge expenses, I have a big request - here was a former presidential candidate Wojciech Skurkiewicz or former president Andrzej Czutowniak - vote in favour of the Radom amendments. [[Applause]] Give money for the construction, purchase of a helicopter for the Air Emergency Service and give money for the promised by you, Minister Skurkiewicz (Dzwonek), which stands in the crouches, reconstruction of the street. Wolanowska. You're the one who promised this in the campaign to the people of this street in Radom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u178	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[The Minister will listen to himself on Facebook.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Why are you still forgetting about law enforcement officers and prosecutors and police officers when drawing up your draft budget? Support the amendments on them. But the important question is why the Medical Fund is still not a fund to save people's lives, why it is not a fund to help the severely ill. Over PLN 4 billion has been promised under this fund and only PLN 170 million have been spent this year. Why do people with rare diseases shudder with uncertainty, shudder whether they will receive the necessary therapy or suddenly be deprived of it? Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the budget, the government wants to help the sick, e.g. for cystic fibrosis, how does he want to help those who suffer from night hemoglobinuria next year? No drug refund, discontinuation of treatment for these severely ill people is for them (the bell) the announcement of a death sentence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u180	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I suggest you change the name of your party because you have nothing to do with law or justice. The piss is expensive. The draft budget law for 2022 - it can already be said today - at least part of the assumptions is obsolete. One reason for this is extremely high inflation and its consequences. In addition, there is creative accounting and massive spending through various types of agendas that are not included in the budget plan. This is what public finances are supposed to look like. All this shows that the budget law has long ceased to reflect the actual state finances. I have made a lot of amendments, which I suspect you will not take into account, because you are doing it maliciously (the bell) and to the south of Poland you are directing this less and less money. I would like to ask for a written reply to those amendments which will certainly not be voted on with justification. A lot of investments are needed in the south of Poland and I ask you to treat the south of Poland in a different way, not as you do so far, in a stepmother's way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u182	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Creative accounting, putting money outside the state budget, massive power loosening. That's what we see when we read this budget. Unfortunately, you are also showing this budget and your attitude to this situation. In fact, this equation perfectly describes it: PiS equals cost. Yeast in shops, expensive in gas stations. We see this cost, getting bills. Unfortunately, if you continue to rule this way, it'll only get worse. And Poles today deserve responsible authority, also responsible authority, which will adopt the Fund for Reconstruction, which will act in accordance with the law, on the basis and within the limits of this law, which will respect the rule of law, because it is a fundamental value that we should pride ourselves on and proudly show. Thanks to this, we can also obtain important resources for entrepreneurs to fight the effects of the pandemic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, changes are needed and amendments are adopted concerning increases for civil police personnel, for example teachers, but also the adoption of important amendments on the Dąbrowski Basin... Thank you very much. ...which local governments and locals are waiting for. No more power loosening, people and citizens need to be supported today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u184	Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u185	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 2022 budget is the best proof of PiS failure. This is another sovereign debt of PLN 140 billion, it's new taxes. Many small businesses are already wondering whether they will have to reduce or terminate their business activity next year. There is no money for proper, proper raises for teachers, for administrative staff, courts, prosecutors, police and border guards or social assistance. There's no money for health care, including child psychiatry. From such local topics there is not even money to develop the concept of the S12 route between Kalisz, Leszn and Głogów. We're gonna have the most expensive Christmas ever. You have no control over inflation, no control over COVID, no control over the Polish government, no control over Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, please, make the best gift: don't hurt any more, quit and leave. This will be the best gift for Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u186	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This state budget should be a hope for a better life for families of budget workers. Many of them today receive a minimum wage. At the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund in field offices 60% out of them is now receiving a minimum wage. They say it's time to change jobs, you can't go on like this to a minimum wage pension. Still poor, that's enough. Will there be a radical improvement in the situation of employees of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and other budget employees in this budget? Second question: Are there funds in this budget for the modernisation and renovation of national road No. 15 in section Gniezno - Jewish - Czeluśn? There are accidents and collisions where people die. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u188	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u189	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget for 2022 will contain a very important position, a breakthrough after the last 30 years, in terms of financing Polish language learning in Germany - as much as PLN 30 million, following the adoption by the Sejm of Mr Czarnek's amendment, on the initiative of Solidarna Polska. This is indeed a breakthrough, because I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that for 30 years at federal level the Federal Republic of Germany has not financed and financed even 1 euro, 1 brand of Polish language learning. This is a very important position and I hope that this is also good news for all Poles discriminated against by the government in the Federal Republic of Germany. Those who so far are waiting to learn Polish for children will receive great support in the budget 2022 from the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u190	Thank you. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u191	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the work on the budget law is a moment when we should be primarily based on numbers, facts and discuss around them. In the course of the discussion, there were many emotional questions in the course of the discussion relating to the financing of therapy, the refund of certain molecules, child psychiatry, even though these are specific issues, and I will return to general issues, and I would like to start with child psychiatry. Ladies and gentlemen! Children's psychiatry is an area we've taken special care of. It was us two years ago who implemented the changes in this area and the reform of child psychiatry, the contracting of environmental health establishments, but above all what may be important, three times compared to 2015 that we increased the expenditure in this area. The value of contracts contracted by the National Health Fund was 167 million at the time. The 2021 plan is almost 470 million, 300 million more. These are the material and gold effects of what children's psychiatry is like. I understand that today we can say that further expenditure is needed, I understand that there is an amendment of 100 million, but I also remind you that at the beginning of this year Prime Minister Morawiecki announced changes in the financing of psychiatry, which are de facto materializing from now on. The Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification has retarized tariffs in the field of child psychiatry, psychiatry. Some of them have already been discussed at the level of the tariffling board, some will be held on 17 December. Already today, ladies and gentlemen, I declare that more than 300 million PLN will be allocated to the psychiatry area since 2022 to increase prices. Since we are generally in psychiatry, I also wanted to draw your attention, not going back to prehistory, but comparing only 2022, which we are discussing, by 2020, that in 2020 the financing of care amounted to PLN 3.4 billion psychiatric. On the other hand, the plan for 2022 is PLN 4.4 billion. We only increase this budget by more than PLN 1 billion over a period of two years, which clearly shows that this is a priority for us, and this is related to the implementation of certain reforms, and the priority related to the financing of this area. These over 300 million zlotys, which I was talking about, in terms of the increase in valuations, are secured. What is more, I think that many times during the work of the Health Committee you have talked about a large share of the National Health Fund's expenditure. I would like to point out that the funding and price increases in child psychiatry will be the result of the referral of the subjective grant to the National Health Fund. We have been carrying out subjective grants for about 4 years. The first subjective grants to the National Health Fund are 2018. There were no precedents like this before. Now it's not a precedent, it's a standard. This is a standard which also results from the functioning of the Act 6% , a law guaranteeing a certain level of expenditure on health care. I think it is worth going back to the issue of dynamic expenditures, because today the speech was mainly about the fact that we are counting expenditures from 2 years back and that this is not effective, adverse for the health system. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2018 the Act 6% , whose amendment I had the pleasure to carry out, also in 2021, we changed the nomenclature and approach, setting a 7% target for expenditure GDP. These laws guarantee constant growth. If we look historically at the development of expenditures in the years 2010 and 2015 - I know that this is already a story with a beard, but still as a reminder - then the expenditures gradually, practically every year, in relation to GDP decreased. Each year, from 2010 to 2015, these expenditures decreased. In 2010 they developed at almost 5% GDP calculated according to this nomenclature, which is two years back. In 2015, 4.5%. That's what shows the change. Now considering it in the law regime, 6% or 7% GDP: these expenditures are constantly increasing, to a large extent. Even in 2020, just two years ago, the expenditure on health care was PLN 107 billion. According to the plan, according to the draft budget bill for next year, it will be 133.5 billion, and in fact today I am ready to declare that they will be significantly higher. I think that at the level of execution they will amount to about PLN 140 billion. Of course, I'm talking about expenses unrelated to the COVID. A series of questions began with Mrs Skowrońska, who spoke about the fact that we did not help hospitals in the pandemic. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been very helpful. Expenditure aimed at combating the pandemic, expenditure in the health area did not in any way charge the budget of the National Health Fund, did not charge the cost of treating patients, let's call it standard. These expenses come either from the state budget or from the special provisions at the disposal of the Minister of Health or other directors or from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. Only this year, 2021, it amounted to over PLN 30 billion. We will close the year at the level of PLN 31.32 billion. A large part of these funds went to hospitals in the form of advances, financing COVID benefits or investments. Let me remind you that in order for these hospitals not to get hurt and not to be a certain slave to the financing of the health system, we have introduced a system of advances which gave the possibility, regardless of the degree of procedure, to collect 100% the size of the contract that hospitals had in 2019. This is the obvious help to hospitals, but not only - also the expenses I was talking about. In the course of the discussion, the Medical Fund was repeatedly invoked. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we would all like some changes to be implemented quickly. We would like, and personally I would like the Medical Fund to function fully now, but I would like to remind you that this fund is a child who is a year old. We've just done some evaluation, some evaluation. In some areas, I can say this with full premeditation, e.g. in infrastructure areas, a certain standard of functioning is that competitions, which are the result as in this case of the adoption of the law, are prepared for months. There's nothing out of the ordinary about it. The first project that we launched at the beginning of December, concerning pediatrics, is a project with an allocation of PLN 2 billion. Perhaps in other sectors, especially in road industry, this is not impressive, but in the health sector it is a record competition, the biggest one ever announced by the Minister of Health. As a reminder, with regard to the allocation of EU infrastructure funds, which were set up for the period 2014-2020, the Minister for Health had the amount of PLN 3 billion for many competitions, for all areas of support in a 6-year perspective. Here we have announced one competition, for PLN 2 billion, to support the area of pediatrics; another, until the middle of the next year, a competition in the field of oncology - again 2 billion as part of the allocation. It's a huge contest procedure. If we look back, we see that, for example. in the field of oncology, the budget, which the Minister of Health had a few years ago, for example under the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, is PLN 250 million, of which about half for investments. As part of the National Oncology Strategy, we have doubled this budget, so the investment budget has doubled to around PLN 250 million. The competition for 2 billion is a huge competition and a huge challenge - and for beneficiaries when it comes to preparing for this competition, and for us at the Ministry of Health. You're talking about some delays, that there's nothing going on with the medical fund. I would like to remind you that when in 2014, in December, the European Commission adopted for the implementation of the Operational Programme "Infrastructure and Environment," the then Ministry of Health announced the first competitions in October, after 10 months. The contest for PLN 167 million. Do I find this outrageous? No. Do I think there were delays? No. This process must continue so that certain procedures are transparent, objective, well-prepared. The same applies to the medical area as regards the Medical Fund. Recently, I explained this in quite detail at the Senate Health Committee meeting. I refer to the law which refers to when certain procedures for financing innovative medicines, new therapeutic technologies of medicines will be presented for a certain evaluation. The Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification under the Act had a limited time to prepare lists of innovative technologies. One was to be created at the end of February, the other at the end of August 2021, then analysed and then addressed as a certain expectation and wish of the Minister of Finance to pharmaceutical companies, which may but do not have to - because we are not legally able to force anyone - to submit appropriate reimbursement requests. They have been submitted for some of the treatments listed in these lists. There are negotiations going on. I hope that in December, the financing of the two or three negotiations that are ongoing will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that at the committee meeting we will address the amendments in detail, especially the 20-billion-dollar one. I do not really understand whether to address pandemic aid or COVID aid, or, in general, to strengthen the health sector. I would like to encourage an objective analysis of these increases that we have made in the last year, and I would like to remind you once again that the increase in health funding in relation to what was 2 years ago is almost 30%. This is an increase of almost PLN 30 billion. These are objective measures. These are measures that show how important, how priority we are in health care. Importantly, these increases are not just the result, which you sometimes pass on, of an increase in expenditures in the National Health Fund. The state budget is also very much involved in these increases, in particular in Part 46: Health. In 2015, the budget at the disposal of the Minister of Health and for example the voivodships for the financing of inspections and other tasks was PLN 9 billion. It was the contribution of the state budget to expenditure on the health sector. In the proposed law for 2022 there are 25 billion PLN, almost three times more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u192	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Sebastian Skuza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u193	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I will not be able to address all the amendments tabled during the second reading because I have not yet had the opportunity to read them. Therefore, I cannot answer the question whether these amendments will be supported by the government. First of all, I would like to address inflation issues. I'll give you a few numbers. According to bank analysts, the median in August 2021, i.e. at the time of the creation of the budget law, is 3,7%. Those were market forecasts. The European Commission forecast inflation for Poland of 3,1% in July. The World Bank predicted 3.6% in October. International Monetary Fund in October - 3.3%. This was not a deliberate government effort to lower inflation in terms of its projections for 2022. It could be said that this was the median of all forecasts that appeared on the market, including forecasts of international institutions. We were in the room, I think, in this compartment. Inflation is now a global problem. Let me give you an example of the euro area countries, our neighbour, Lithuania. Reading for November - 9.3%. It is a member of the euro area. Note the following. The ECB's inflation target is lower than the National Bank of Poland with a range and the European Central Bank does not raise interest rates. The next thing I want to address is the transparency of public finances. There was a debate on this in the Senate yesterday. There were also representatives of the market, financial institutions, employers and experts. Also, their inflation projections did not work. I don't think they were expecting such high inflation. This is a global problem, as I said. As for transparency, transparency of public finances, I cannot agree with the thesis that 40% It's out of control. Here we are talking about measures such as: funds subject to the Social Insurance Institution or the National Health Fund. You can't say there's no control here. Yesterday I explained that the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund was an ad hoc ad hoc fund. At present, the ratio between its expenditure and expenditure from the state budget is 1 to 10. As far as transparency is concerned, I think that the transparency of public finances is ensured by EU solutions, so-called. ESA statistics. We report periodically, we present the whole public finance sector precisely according to the EU methodology. I can say that the debt of the whole public finance sector according to the EU methodology for the current year will oscillate, I think, around 56% gross domestic product. Professor Rosati's question about the forward rate of rate agreement was also raised here. I would like to say that when it comes to risk exposure to interest rates, we are well prepared because about 3/4 of the Treasury's debt has fixed interest rates, so the changes in rates, at least next year, should not be so fundamental. There were also questions about local government units. From this point of view, I can estimate with a high probability, almost 100 percent, that 2021, like 2020, local government units will aggregately close the surplus. We can only discuss whether this surplus is going to be a 10-digit or an 11-digit, but I'm sure the year will close with a surplus. There was a question about the budget of the M.S. Warsaw. I would like to emphasise, as regards the proceeds from participation in income taxes, together with the compensation which m.st. Warsaw will receive from subsidies of 8 billion this year, that these revenues - like m.st. Warsaw estimated before the announcement of the Polish Łódź - it will be higher by about PLN 166 million. In smaller local government units, the reference is quite common, High Sejm, that funds in local government units, especially for investments this year, is a record quantity. There must be an additional 8 billion compensation subsidies and 4 billion PLN of expenditure on water and sewage networks, which went to local government units, where the losses on this network were the largest. There were also questions related to increases, in particular in uniform services. The Budgetary Act assumes an increase in salaries in the state budget area by 4.4%, unlocking the 3% prize fund. In addition, it is important not to forget the ad hoc solution for this year, an additional 6-percent fund for promotional actions. As far as uniforms are concerned, except 4.4%. In addition, the officers will receive about 406 zlotys per job. Civil workers will also have increases in the amount of approx. 356 PLN per job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws, print No 1836. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of agricultural trade by farmers (prints Nos 1516 and 1821). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of retail trade by farmers, print No 1516. Sejm at its 38th meeting on 1 October 2021, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered this draft law at its meeting on 8 December 2021. During the examination of this law, two amendments were tabled, which were accepted by the committee. The draft law provides for the facilitation of farmers' retail trade. It is proposed to amend the Law of 25 August 2006 on food safety and nutrition. Member of the Commission 2021, and the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax, OJ 1991 L 140, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1128, late. zm. The proposed changes to the rules stem from the Polish Load programme, which announced the initiative to release agricultural retail trade. The aim of the Act is primarily to increase the area in which supplies of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade can be carried out to retail establishments for the final consumer such as shops, restaurants, cafés. It is the territory of the whole country, currently it is the voivodship. We want to extend it to the whole country because we believe that agricultural retail trade in Poland is developing well. Agricultural retail trade has been a specific form of retail trade in Poland since 2017. It is primarily dedicated to farmers. The basic condition for this activity is that food produced and marketed must come wholly or partly from its own cultivation, farming or farming. It is also proposed that Article 1. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 71a of the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax, the number of 40 000. replace 100,000. zł. The adoption of this solution will reduce the number of persons required to make a written statement on the choice of flat-rate taxation from the revenues recorded for the tax year in question and, on the other hand, will enable agricultural producers to raise higher incomes. The bill is expected by farmers who increasingly decide on agricultural retail trade, so that we all, consumers, have healthy food. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 8 December 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u196	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kapinos, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct by farmers of agricultural retail trade, Seym printing Nos 1516 and 1821. At the meeting of the Sejm, a very important bill is returned to implement the initiative called: the release of agricultural retail, contained in the government document of Poland Load. It is worth noting once again that the Government of Law and Justice wants to increase the opportunities of farmers resulting from the agricultural retail trade introduced in 2017, which is very popular in our country. I would like to remind you that in Poland today, such a form of food sales is carried out by several thousand farmers. This draft law proposes to facilitate food safety retail farmers and tax relief from personal income tax. The main objective of the proposed amendments is to increase the opportunities for development in Poland of activities in the framework of agricultural retail trade. The solutions envisaged in the project include, first of all, the extension to the whole country of the area of disposal of non-animal food of origin produced under the RHD to other retail establishments intended for the consumer, such as. shops, restaurants or cafés, secondly, abolishing the maximum limits for the sale of food to consumers, thirdly, increasing the amount of income tax exempt from the current 40 000. PLN to 100,000. zł. On 1 October 2021, the first reading of the project took place at the 38th meeting of the Polish Parliament at which the project was addressed for further work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission adopted the draft unanimously after first reading and considering the draft at its meeting on 8 December 2021. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to inform you that a number of amendments to the draft law were adopted during the committee's work, the most important of which were to take into account the European Commission's comments submitted under the notification procedure in order to ensure that the proposed solutions comply with the provisions of European Union food law and to change the date of application of the rules on income tax on individuals benefiting from agricultural retail trade. The European Commission also commented on a project on the area where food of animal origin produced under RHD can be disposed of to other retail establishments for the consumer. In the European Commission's view, in line with European Union legislation, the supply of such food should be carried out locally, rather than throughout Poland, in so far as simplified health requirements are to apply to RHD activities. As a result of the adoption of an amendment taking into account the European Commission's attention, the proposal assumes that the area will be enlarged to the territory of the whole country where the supply of food of non-animal origin produced under the RHD to other establishments will be carried out. In turn, the area of such disposal in the case of food of animal origin and food containing food of non-animal origin and products of animal origin will remain unchanged. The remaining most important solutions envisaged in the project, i.e. concerning the abolition of maximum limits for the sale of food to consumers and the increase in income tax exempt revenues have not changed. In conclusion, it must be firmly stated that the draft law is another major step towards improving agricultural retail trade. It fits perfectly into the concept of shortening the supply chain: from field to table. The legislative initiative taken by the Government of Law and Justice responds to the expectations of farmers, but also to consumers. The adoption of this bill will make access to healthy Polish food even better, and has a good chance to positively influence the promotion of agricultural retail trade. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed solutions and asks the High Sejm to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u198	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I go to discuss the draft law on agricultural retail trade, a few corrections first. First, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed provisions do not result from the government document of Poland Load. As you know, the Polish Government did not accept as its programme, and therefore it is a party program of the United Right. Second, after hearing and analysing the statements of the camp's politicians that the proposed changes will solve the problems of Polish agriculture, I believe that they are, so to speak, passing away with the truth. We don't think that's gonna happen. What are our concerns? Namely, so far, 12 876 farms have benefited from reductions in agricultural retail trade, and I will remind you that there are 1300 thousand in the database. holdings which aspire to direct payments. Therefore, the dedicated law is to cover around 1% agricultural holdings. According to the current legislation, food production in the framework of agricultural retail trade with a value of up to 40 000. PLN is exempt from personal income tax. The proposed provisions propose to increase this amount to 100,000. zł. We continue to ask why this amount cannot be increased e.g. Up to 200,000. zł. Today we know that the amounts of 40,000. PLN cannot be maintained because the government plans to exempt from income tax all citizens with annual income of up to 30,000. zł. Leaving an amount of 40,000. PLN for farmers in the framework of agricultural retail trade would be grotesque. We believe that this issue must be resolved in this way and that the amount should be increased, for example, due to galloping inflation. [[Applause]] The statistics available show that farmers are not willing to exceed 40 000 revenues. PLN and 2% payment flat-rate income tax. In turn, according to the justification of the draft law in 2018, 122 farms declared revenues from agricultural retail trade above 40 000. PLN, in 2019 it was 153 farms. Why so little? The answer is simple: the system is overly bureaucratic. If this changes, the interest of farmers in the retail trade will certainly increase. According to government figures, an increase of 40,000. Up to 100,000. PLN will reduce revenue to the budget by PLN 15.5 million. You'll admit it's not much. This means that for PLN 15.5 million you want to encourage farmers to implement a complex and excessive bureaucracy system. It is worth remembering that in the Polish Lada there are laws, among others. Agricultural code, excise duty and today's draft law on agricultural retail trade. We don't think that's enough. And interested I refer to the Polish Lad party program, p. 78. Minister, two more lines. First line. The European Commission made comments in the context of the notification of this draft law. I would like to ask: How and how have all the comments of the committee been taken into account? Is it not necessary to inform the European Commission of the comments implemented in the bill before the vote? The second point is the entry into force of the law. The record says that this is 14 days from the publication of the law, which means that the law will be in force at the beginning of 2022. However, I wanted to ask: What about the tax system for farmers, which should apply from 1 January of the financial year? In conclusion, my club will support the bill, but we expect the Minister to respond to our doubts and comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u201	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left parliamentary club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of retail trade by farmers. The agricultural retail trade is a specific form of retail trade dedicated to farmers since 2017. Data from Veterinary Inspection and Health Inspection indicate that by the end of 2020 agricultural retail trade was carried out in the framework of animal production of more than 11 000. holdings and, as part of plant production, more than 1500 holdings. It's not a big scale - it's less than 1% all agricultural holdings. This draft law contains some key changes in the functioning of agricultural retail trade. Firstly, the draft law proposes the abolition of maximum food limits for the sale of final consumers. The second amendment consists of an increase in sales revenue exempt from personal income tax from 40 000. PLN to 100,000. zł. Thirdly, the draft law proposes to increase the area in which the supply of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade can be carried out to the territory of the whole country. Currently this area is limited to voivodships and districts or cities adjacent to this voivodship. Fourthly, the definition of agricultural retail trade is changing. In the case of foods containing more than one ingredient, e.g. processed meat products, milk products or prepared meals have been amended to include at least one ingredient wholly derived from the cultivation, rearing or rearing of the operator concerned. In addition, the production and disposal of food under RHD are to be subject to food law. As a general rule, the proposed amendments should be assessed positively. Their aim is to strengthen the position of farmers in the food market and shorten distribution chains so that farmers can present their offer directly to consumers. The solutions introduced should also provide more revenue from the sale of own products. However, one thing is disturbing. During my first reading, I drew attention to the risk of abuse that may result from a change in the definition of agricultural retail trade. This amendment states that food should contain at least one ingredient derived from its own cultivation, breeding or rearing. This change causes that if there are only radishes in a prepared meal from their own cultivation, and the rest is e.g. rice from China, soy from the USA, meat and tomatoes from Spain, this meal can be sold without income tax. The same issue was raised by the National Council of Agricultural Chambers in its opinion of 17 September. The Council gives an example of a farmer who only grows peas and adds them to dishes in different forms, or a farmer who keeps several fat pigs and adds fat from these pigs to all foods. According to this draft law, even if all other ingredients come from other sources, such a food producer will be able to benefit from income tax exemptions. The National Council of Agricultural Chambers also proposes concrete solutions to amendments to the draft law, e.g. a statement that one of the two main components of the composite product should come entirely from its own cultivation, farming or farming. Alternatively, the percentage used in other countries could also be used. Unfortunately, this case has not been corrected in the bill and I think it is a big oversight. In conclusion, I want to say that the direction is good, but this bill is written unprofessionally. Despite this, the Left will vote in favour of this law because we believe that its benefits outweigh the risks associated with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u202	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u203	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about agricultural retail, but it is really a continuation of what the Ministry of Agriculture did a few years ago under the direction of Marek Sawicki and what the government did when the Ministry talked about direct sales. It's a continuation, only under a changed name. What is this sale of direct or agricultural retail? How is this different from basic agricultural production? Let us make it clear that today the production of basic agricultural products does not require any authorisation, does not require any consent, requires no special treatment, nor does it require tax relief. So a farmer, based on the provisions of the Law on the Freedom of Business, can sell his products on the free market without paying for these products. What is direct sales and today's agricultural retail trade? This applies to the situation in which a farmer intends to process and offer the processed food on the market on his farm. I remember this discussion because it's been going on for years. There has always been such a danger that products made on the basis of animal products, e.g. milk or meat must meet certain hygiene conditions as they are subject to complex treatment and have specific characteristics. So in order not to put people in danger, we always pay attention to the fact that the processing of animal products is carried out in accordance with hygiene rules and veterinary requirements or the safety of food production. And it was a kind of brake that we are also experiencing today when it comes to the greater development of direct, agricultural retail sales. This is slightly different for plant products, where this treatment is easier. It goes on for example. about making flour-based pastries or making fruit and vegetable products based on fruit and vegetables produced on a farm where the risk of food danger to a potential consumer is low and this activity is easier to carry out. But I also remember this discussion when we talked about further facilities that dealt with tax issues. There have always been concerns that, due to the presence in the food market processed by large operators, large players will reduce revenue to the income tax budget. Therefore, it is necessary to gradually release agricultural retail or direct sales, so that this place on the market, which has large players, is slowly occupied by farmers who want to sell their products in a processed form. It's not that dynamic, and it's only 1%. holdings or even less than 1% farms for tax reasons, because of the need to comply with veterinary requirements or food safety requirements in relation to animal production. If we do not change anything in this respect, this agricultural retail trade will continue to concern 1% holdings. What are the barriers today in terms of wider development and what further steps need to be taken to increase this type of sales and to cover more than 1% Farmers? Today it mainly concerns small farmers who have fragmented farms and who, due to the small volume of production, have to deal with processing in order to increase the added value in order to obtain additional revenues from the sale of processed products to their farm. Firstly, it is necessary to ensure that, under the new aid schemes, the strategic plan is implemented to support such farms for the purchase of equipment that will allow processing and for the purchase of which many of these farms cannot afford today. These farmers have no credit standing, they are unable to borrow to buy such equipment. So technical support in the strategic plan should be much higher than it is even today proposed in this project. Secondly, these products concern a narrow section of agricultural activity, because there is a barrier to the rational sale of these products. There is no big recipient today who would be able to buy these products a little bigger than a small farmer and manage them. We always visualize it: e.g. If a cherry-making producer on his holding of 10 and 20 t of cherries converted them into jams, juices, he would not be able to reasonably sell this production even during the rest of the calendar year outside the harvest, because there is simply no such place, there is no such recipient, there is no customer who would be able to buy such a number of jars of cherry jam. So the question remains: Isn't it worth it - it's rhetorical, because it's definitely worth it - to support farmers in commercial relations towards large customers, big players on the market? It is about extorting or proposing, in some Western European countries, some network stores to separate certain shelves (the Bell) on which such products would be sold. If all these solutions were to be implemented, we could consider that this type of agricultural production has a chance. Since the direction indicated in this project is not the opposite of what we have proposed for years, the coalition club of Poland and the Polish People's Party will support this project, assuming that at the appropriate moments there will be further improvements for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, a project enabling farmers to sell retail on a wider scale is needed. However, today in the Sejm we should discuss what is coming when it comes to Polish agriculture, and what is signed by the name of the policy of PiS, which at the same time originates from PSL, or Mr Janusz Wojciechowski. And an earthquake is coming not only in Polish but also in European agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, under the name of the European Green Deal. Yes, it is about the European Green Deal, which the European Commission's scientific service has written about, that it will lead to a dramatic collapse of agriculture and agricultural production across the continent. The European Green Deal, which will lead to Europe becoming a major importer of food from the food exporter. The European Green Deal, which will lead to tens, hundreds of thousands of farms in Poland, where it is not easy, stand on the brink of bankruptcy, will no longer pay off production. There will be reduced areas of cereal cultivation, reduced areas of fodder cultivation. There will be a elimination of up to several dozen percent in terms of meat production, animal production, breeding, also in terms of dairy production, the forecast decline is even a dozen percent. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that the Sejm should be debating today. The European Union, with the hands of the PiS Commissioner with the PSL lineage, wants to liquidate European agriculture and also wants to hit Polish agriculture. And what happens in the Seym in this case? What's the debate? Where is the cry of despair that should be issued here, and where is the opposition to this European, EU madness that is hitting the industry today and which consolidates the resistance of farmers throughout Europe? Ladies and gentlemen! These are serious challenges, this is a serious responsibility to the food self-sufficiency of the country, to the next generations of Poles who will face further utopian projects of the European Union. Today we must say very strongly from this place: enough, enough of this EU madness signed by Janusz Wojciechowski, by the PiS Commissioner with the PSL lineage.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u206	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u207	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of agricultural retail trade by farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said here, the aim of the law declared by the government is to introduce certain facilitations in the field of agricultural retail trade. A number of changes are proposed which, according to the government, are expected to give an incentive to increase the income of rural residents, among others. amending the definition of agricultural retail trade, extending the area where food supplies may be carried out, or clarifying the origin of ingredients used in the production of food in the framework of agricultural retail trade. The result of this law is also to shorten the road from field to table in some areas. Of course, these goals are close to Poland 2050. The question, however, is whether this amendment will solve the problems that concern the Polish village today. Unfortunately, we don't have good information. Surely this idea of government is not a remedy for all the problems of the Polish village, although I think we cannot all resist the impression that the Minister spoke about this act as if it were the Holy Grail of agriculture. Unfortunately, it's not. Firstly, the narrow scope of the changes. Only 12 876 farms, a relatively small group, have benefited from agricultural retail trade and the cost of these changes is only PLN 15.5 million. So the project itself and the justification show that this is a very narrow solution, which will not give enough impetus to solve the problems of the Polish village. I think that these problems, Minister, are much deeper, and that is what this situation is about today, i.e. crazy expensive, high inflation, lack of courage to create solutions. Unfortunately, this project does not provide all this. In the course of our work, part of our doubts as to whether agricultural trade would happen by chance if such activities, where imported inputs are used, would, of course, be affected by agriculture. In these situations Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni will fight for the rights of the Polish village, for the rights of farmers. These solutions (the Bell), although narrow, go in the right direction. Therefore, the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u208	Thank you. Members have asked questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. One minute to ask a question. [[There isn't.]] Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[I didn't sign up, so maybe I didn't sign up because they weren't there.]] But you have to sign it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u209	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we talk about the condition of the Polish village, we talk about the condition of households of individual farmers... I talk to them a lot. Recently I was in Namysłów, recently I was in Kluczbork, recently I spoke with farmers in Głubczyce and everyone is really worried about rising prices, especially fuel prices, gas prices, which is very often used for various activities related to production in the countryside. For us, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important conclusion: what is the biggest threat to the Polish countryside is the EU's green deal regulatory. In this case, Poland must explicitly reject the green deal and certainly veto the Fit for 55 package. This is absolutely right about the Polish countryside, because the regulatory costs associated with EU climate policy will be a blow to the heart of productivity, efficiency of the Polish village. We can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u210	Thank you. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The National Council of Agricultural Chambers expressed its opinion on the law and I would ask for a written reference to the statement I quote: Some doubts may arise as to the origin of ingredients used for the production of food other than the original, stating that food produced under the RHD containing more than one ingredient should contain at least one ingredient wholly derived from its own cultivation, breeding or rearing. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister about the methods of verification and possible sanctions that may be imposed on farmers acting in violation of the rules adopted. We have in our proposal, as it seems, a dead record which states that a farmer can only trade articles in which at least one component produced by that farmer is present. Who, and on what basis, will determine whether the sausage sold at the roadside stall was made of a pig reared on the farm of that farmer or its neighbour? What methods of verification does the legislator propose to determine whether the apples covered by the transaction have grown in Mr. Kowalski's court rather than in Mr. Nowak's court? I kindly ask the Minister to answer in writing on the many questions I receive on this matter. They're about the verifications I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u215	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. The first question concerns very close direct payments to farmers. With regard to relations with the European Union, the government has set aside an ideological conflict that concerns political control of the justice system. This message of both power and the majority of the Law and Justice issues of the Polish economy, Polish agriculture and has a very bad impact on the Polish state. Minister, what about direct payments? When will they be at EU level but not at EU average level? When will our farmers finally be at EU level? The second question I wanted to address to the Minister. It concerns checks. How will the control be carried out in relation to these provisions so that there are no breaches related to the use of e.g. imported ingredients and depicting them as (the bell) native production? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is right in its assumption. It is intended to increase the number of farmers benefiting from the so-called relief. retail trade, which we want to increase from 40,000. Up to 100,000. zł. We are very concerned about systemic issues. It's just about $12,000. farmers of 1300 thousand. That's less than 1%. So something in this system isn't working. Hence my questions. Firstly, the scale of measures under the strategic plan for the new agricultural policy to support farmers, among others. in the proposed equipment purchases? Are they gonna be like this? Farm advisory centers? Will the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture be able to raise funds to support the promotion of products and to help trade in products that are produced by farmers? To what extent will this law enter into force? It's the end of a year, and there's the Senate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since when will the law really start to apply due to tax changes in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u219	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is going in the right direction. I have three critical remarks. First point: unfortunately, the project concerns a very small group of farmers. It's less than 1%. Second note. If there's a bill and an amount of 30,000. The zloty will be tax-deductible, that's the $40,000. They won't make the slightest impression. I believe that this amount must be increased at this stage. The third element. This system is quite complicated. If we want to introduce anything, encourage farmers, we should strive to make the system as simple as possible. Positive. First of all, we're shortening the supply chain. This is an extremely important thing. From the field to the table. The second element - promotion of healthy food. I would urge the Minister to do this - I have talked about it several times and I will repeat it again - so that the Ministry will create a programme that (The Bell) will encourage farmers to run organic farms. That's the future. That's really gonna make money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u220	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure agricultural retail isn't gonna cure all the agriculture. This is one of the elements that allows farmers to make production more cost-effective. It's about selling your products and shortening this chain. Minister! I wanted to ask: Is it really that complicated to register agricultural retail? Are regulations designed to increase processing quotas in the framework of agricultural retail trade? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u222	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The key question is: Why is agricultural retail such a niche? Applies to less than 1% holdings. Where's the dog buried? Does the resort have a clear diagnosis? Does this legislative intervention really solve problems? Because it seems that we have this situation: the farmer has something to sell, but there's no one to sell, there's no place to sell, which is infrastructure, and sometimes there's no time. I mean. We are talking about the situation that in Europe such sales are dealt with by certain cooperatives, agreements between farmers, perhaps even associations. There's a designated place, there's a hired man and he sells. So the whole issue of organizing the sale and government support of this sale is bowed down, which can be done through RDP mechanisms and the use of local action groups. Again, were there such attempts (the Bell) or are there examples of what it looks like, how you intend to use the RDP mechanisms, including in particular the operation of local action groups that cover the whole country? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u224	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A moment ago, the Confederate Member in a fiery speech criticized the green order, which is supported by all practically all trade unions of small farmers across Europe. When I tried to ask which green order recipe, green order regulation or something, this Member, as it is customary, just ran away. Well, I might explain that the green order is a political concept, but what will happen to Polish farmers will certainly be in the strategic plan and will also be in this bill, which we are currently working on, not in any green governance, which above all does not apply (The bell) to farmers at all. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Even if I may, Your Marshal, I just wanted to say that this law does not even mean shortening the supply chains, but shortening the sales chains, just as it is. made in the Italian Act. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u226	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u227	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I have two questions for the Minister. First question. The Act states that farms producing and placing food on the market will be subject to official veterinary inspection, health inspection. Does this mean that small farms will be subject to the same procedures as companies, food-producing companies in an industrial manner? And second question. Will the Minister of Agriculture negotiate with the Ministry of Finance to amend Annex 2 to the Personal Income Tax Act as regards the determination of production limits? The ones that are proposed today, in my opinion, are too low, because 100 pcs. This is indeed not enough for poultry per year. Will such action be taken by the Ministry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I am surprised that the opposition Members are questioning the agricultural retail trade. [[Who's questioning?]] That you're undermining the sale of raw materials. You're questioning it as if you didn't know there's a label on every product. [[Voices from the hall: Who's questioning?]] Gentlemen have questioned from the beginning, I have listened to your words. [[But who?]] Farm retail is the future of agriculture. You're questioning the number of entities created. This is about 50 farms in the county, 330 counties times 50 gives us this number. So it's all evolving. Minister! As far as the increase is concerned, it's up to 100,000. the tax-free amount, will the income of these farms increase or not? It'll get bigger. If someone's questioning this idea: that it's not enough that you could have 200, as I've heard from your mouth here... No. We want rationally, like 40 grand. Up to 100,000 and then 2%. Everyone has the right to sell as much as they want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Raw materials really come from these farms. Don't confuse the concepts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u230	Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This law goes in the right direction, especially since, as we recall, 2 or 3 weeks ago, we passed a law that says that local governments will have to designate places of trade, among other things. retail trade for farmers. Secondly, we raise the tax-free amount to 100,000. In some perspective, however, it would probably be worthwhile to specify that this particular form of support for the development of agricultural retail trade would require a longer perspective, i.e., let's say, to say that this is the promotion of the state, this form of sales, and that this tax is 1%. As part of the rotation... The second thing that's included in this bill. It refers to the fact that the product manufactured should be sold (the bell) on the territory of the given voivodship. In view of the above, I would like to ask what is caused by this condition, that only in the area of the voivodship where the product was manufactured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u232	Thank you very much. One last question, Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left will support the bill, because we believe that we cannot talk in the countryside today about the fact that it is expensive, only that poverty has sneaked in and that farmers are fighting poverty. The whole agricultural committee adopted the proposal unanimously. The Left supports any law that goes in this direction, that it is trying to increase farmers' incomes. However, I would like to ask on this occasion, Minister, what percentage of farmers will benefit from this bill. We have about 1.5 million farms. It is said that 20 and 30 farms in the countryside, in the county will be involved in retail trade. I'd like you to answer the percentage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you estimate the possible benefits of this law to the countryside? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u234	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Lech Kołakowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u235	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important law for farmers. This is the next step. The Polish state meets expectations. A lot of important issues have been raised, support has been expressed, practically from all clubs and groups. We're very happy about that. Let's get to the questions. You asked Mr Kazimierz Plocke as the first question. I would like to say that agricultural retail is an additional activity and that this is very expected by the environment of farmers who want to achieve an additional income from the processing and sale of the food produced. We will be able to increase the next thresholds in the next stages if necessary. We're leaning on this problem. With regard to the European Commission, all comments have been taken into account. This is the subject of second reading. The tax system is legal. The Constitutional Tribunal stated that tax changes could be introduced if they were favourable to farmers. A very important aspect, concerning control, was dealt with by several Members. This is due to the requirements of the European Commission, this control is supervision. This is a requirement for the European Commission to include such checks. Anita Sowińska asked another question. The percentage limit is laid down in the case of personal income tax. And farmers are taking advantage of it. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. As I pointed out earlier, control is supervision. This is due to the requirements of the European Commission, which concerns risks for products. It's about inspection control. I would also like to add that there are also educational elements here regarding the support from the RDPs, action 4.2. In general, I would like to thank the Member very much for his declaration of support for this good project. Mr Robert Winnicki asked about the green order. I would like to say that we will be guided by the Polish state and good of the Polish village, food producers. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Here I would like to say that this is another step towards improving the economic situation of farmers. Mr Piotr Boris. The situation concerns taxes from 1 January 2020. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk. In the strategic plan it is 200,000. zł and this is on request... Mrs Teresa Pamuła. Thank you so much for that question. This is a very simple procedure. Only apply to the district veterinarian or health inspection. It can't be easier, but thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. By means of the RDP mechanisms, 200 000 can be obtained. Evil, of course, is also about encouragement and further assistance. In the RDP investment support in the field of markets, buildings, modernisation can be granted to local governments, municipalities, powiats - up to PLN 1 million. Mr Leszek Galemba asked for supervision. It is about food safety and citizens. So that certain issues must be regulated legally. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. Here I would also like to highlight the special role of the supporting law on trade on Fridays and Saturdays. This is a very necessary and expected task. Mr Romuald Ajchler. This programme was assumed to cover 10 000 in 2017. farmers. Today we see that there are 14,000 of them, which is 40% of them. More. However, I would like to add here that this is the expectation at this moment, this is the demand, and those farmers who make declarations on agricultural trade are satisfied in this respect. Most likely to raise the amount to 100,000. it is very legitimate, but I would also like to say that this does not limit the possibility of further amendments or the presentation of further aspects of facilitating and increasing this trade. This is another step in the government's action: making law in such a way that maximum aid can be granted to farmers, all the more so since in a significant part this applies to farmers who have smaller holdings and treat this activity as an additional income. Ladies and gentlemen! The importance of this law and the very good directional preparation of the project show that Members did not make any specific amendments. And I thank the opposition for that. Please support this submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u236	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National, print No. 1837. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals (prints No. 1822 and 1837). I would very much like to ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I am pleased to present to the High House a report on the draft parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, which was presented in print No. 1822. At today's joint committee meeting, the first reading of this project took place. The draft was justified by a Member who represented the environment of the Members who submitted this draft law. Briefly referring to the content of this bill, it must be said that the issue concerns the issue - as part of this amendment - the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic. This museum was created in 2016 by the order of the Minister of Justice. The museum had no legal personality, it was established, as I mentioned, by order and functioning within the organizational structure of the Prison Service. This museum is located at ul. Rakowiecka 37, i.e. every Polish patriot knows what we are talking about. This is the place of execution of many generations of Poles who, for wanting to live for the Republic and working for the independence of the Republic of Poland, were tortured and tortured mainly during the Stalinist period by officials of the Public Security Office, but also later, until, you can say, 1990, when we regained this as a state of the independent state. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of the authors of this bill is based on the fact that this museum is taken over by the Institute of National Remembrance within the framework of the National Remembrance Institute's statutory activity, the subject concerns cultural activity, and acquires legal personality. This is a very desirable decision, which was included in this submission, and it is important in our cultural heritage that the museum should have a very strong attachment, and therefore this decision has been proposed. As soon as this law is adopted, the museum's activities will be governed by three laws: the National Remembrance Institute Act, the Museums Act and the Act on Organizing and Conducting Cultural Activity. This law also proposes decisions that de facto result in the investment of this museum being carried out on the basis of a prepared and quite strongly committed project. The point is that this issue should also be regulated by law, so that deadlines are not lost, especially in the context of administrative decisions already taken, including building permits and demolition permits. It is also a matter of one facility, but these issues have not been, so to speak, implemented because during the pandemic there was a lack of investment resources. And that is what the bill is about, because there is a disposition there, which states that within two weeks of the entry into force of that law, the Council of Ministers should adopt a resolution on the establishment of a multiannual financial programme for this museum. High Izbo! I am bringing in on behalf of the joint committees for the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law from print no. 1837. This is a good decision and I highly recommend that, above the political divisions, the High House would like to adopt a law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u238	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been 76 years since the end of World War II, but it is very slowly breaking into Poles' consciousness that after years of German occupation the Red Army did not carry Polish lands. Poland and Poles of freedom and peace. The troops of the NKVD and Death brought unimaginable torture and death to all the insubordinate and disobedient new communist power, to all those who did not accept the force of the imposed system. Intelligence and many of the resistant were transported to Siberia or to the steppes of Kazakhstan. Soldiers and participants of the anti-communist resistance were arrested, tortured and murdered. Everything was done to weaken the national identity, historical awareness, patriotism and Catholic faith in the Polish nation. For this relentless attitude towards the Sovietization of Poland, AK, WiN, NSZ and other organizations of the second conspiracy were cursed by communist power. Many of them have been subjected to unimaginable torture in the prisons of the NKVD and the arrests of the Public Security Office's investigators. Next to the so-called. Links in the territory of the Military Cemetery in Warsaw Powązki, Toledo prison in Prague, Rembertów prison symbolizes enslavement and terror towards soldiers and Polish society is primarily the arrest of investigators in Warsaw's Mokotów. The X Pavilion of this arrest was a place of unimaginable torture that Polish patriots met. Hundreds of thousands of people have passed through such places throughout the country, and tens of thousands have lost their lives. Not only because they did not agree to Bolshevik Poland, their only fault was that they wanted Polish Poland, ruled by Poles. From the beginning of the 1990s, this subject began to reach the consciousness of Poles. Revealing the truth about the victims demands the last living cursed and the family of the dead and murdered. Learning about historical truth is especially important for the proper formation of attitudes and characters of the young generation in order to root in them love for their homeland and honor towards the defenders of Polishness. The prison area at ul. Rakowiecka, and especially his buildings, are silent witnesses of the events of those years. The wall of executions with numerous bullet holes forces the reflection and memory of the victims of the communist regime. Together with the families of the cursed soldiers, I would like to thank Minister Zbigniew Ziobrze for starting the process of commemorating the cursed soldiers and for the decision taken to transform the Mokotowski prison into a state museum unit dedicated to so many victims of the criminal regime. With this bold initiative, evidence of communist crimes and murders will be secured and exposed. Historical truth will be made available to all concerned and evidence of numerous crimes will be presented in the light of daylight. Of course, it is understandable that the Ministry of Justice is no longer the right authority to run a museum, and the best step towards achieving the intended goal is the next decision, this time to hand over the museum of soldiers cursed under the management of the Institute of National Remembrance. This will allow for the proper development of this facility, maintaining its intended character and continuing historical research and documenting historical truth. The museum should be a place to show and document tragedies and dramas with respect and appreciation for suffering and to reflect on the dedication of participants to fight for the freedom and independence of their homeland. It should be used to reflect on the drama of the past time, to learn about unknown events or to learn about the fate of loved ones. Give the opportunity to tell or share their fate to a wider audience and to find graves and places of secret burials. An important element is also the ability to establish contacts with comrades of combat and suffering. The museum should show that Poland wants to remember its heroes and explain why the cursed were cursed. High Seym! The PiS Club supports the law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and will vote in favour of the above-mentioned act. Laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u240	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u241	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I welcome Minister Kaleta, but first of all I would like to welcome the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński, who is absent today. Because, High Izbo, when we talk about museums, there should be a Minister of Culture in the meeting room. I'd like to say one thing at the beginning. Place with address: ul. Rakowiecka 37, the Mokotów CSI arrest where Polish patriots died in the post-war period, is sacred to the Civic Coalition. But this debate isn't about whether there should be a museum, because it's obvious. The fundamental question today is: How should it be organised, by whom it should be conducted, and should the draft laws which are passed to the High House be an example of sloppyness, messyness and incompetence? Because it is simply necessary, High Izbo, to name a parliamentary project written on the knee, submitted on 2 December by a group of Members, especially Solidarna Polska. Today, the absence of the Minister of Culture at the joint committee meeting is an example of the frivolous treatment of this project and of the frivolous treatment of this issue. That is what we want to say very clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! In thought, as I understand it, applicants are handing this museum over to the Institute of National Remembrance. But let us ask ourselves the basic question: Is the Institute of National Remembrance the right unit to run museums in the Republic of Poland? Not in my opinion. There's a law on museums, there's a law on cultural activity. And the first thing we see in this project is what? There is an exclusion from the application of these laws, in particular as regards the Museum Act, you want to delete the action from the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1, means that the museum's statute is agreed with the Minister of Culture. You want to throw away the art. 8 laws on museums, i.e. the supervision of the Minister of Culture over this museum. You want the Minister of Culture not to have any effect on the seat of the museum council, which will be built at the museum. You want to turn off the art. 23, which says that public and local museums can make trades, sales, donations of museums, that is to say, influence the increase in the value of this unit. You want to delete the article. 24, which defines the possibility of influencing the Minister of Culture to remove museums from the inventory. And you want to disable the Minister of Culture's involvement in the possible liquidation of the museum. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality. He's not in the courtroom, ladies and gentlemen, he's also the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. In fact, in no way, officially appointed by the Sejm and by the Senate, the President of the IPN did not speak on this matter, which is in fact unknown to the institution's position on this matter. Would he really want to take over this institution within 30 days of the publication of the law? An institution unfinished with an unfinished investment process, with five administrative decisions whose term of validity ends at the beginning of next year, i.e. maybe in other words, some of the provisions of this law will enter retroactively when the decisions concerning the extension of the museum or demolition will no longer simply apply. High Izbo! The Sejm's legislators on this project didn't leave anything dry. This is another thing that needs to be highlighted. I would like to ask you what is your real desire to support useful, valuable investments in patriotism in promoting important things from the point of view of history. Because we have, ladies and gentlemen, the Patriotic Fund - 30 million PLN. It's been announced that these are the means to preserve the memory of our heroes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have security objectives in the former Ministry of Public Security - this is currently the Ministry of Justice. The Warsaw Uprising Museum received these security objectives [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he was looking for the Patriotic Fund. Does the High Chamber know who the Warsaw Uprising Museum lost to in the Patriotic Fund money competition? With Bąkiewicz, with the National Guard, with the Independence March Association. Is that how you want to handle this museum, too? [[Polish patriots.]] Ladies and gentlemen! About an hour. 15 came up with a report from the joint committees. We wanted to introduce our amendments to this proposal, but, ladies and gentlemen, we ask the applicants to withdraw this proposal. This project cannot simply be improved. This project needs to be revamped and the key role of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, which I also call for to be active in this matter, should be a key role in this writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As a Left, we were against the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance. We have tabled a bill on the liquidation of this institute, and therefore we see no reason to give further powers to this institute. We believe that museums in Poland should be dealt with by the Ministry of Culture. It is not an institution which should in any way be linked to the current policy, so we are against this law and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u244	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, at the joint meeting of the Commission: Culture and Media and Justice and Human Rights, we discussed the project submitted to 1822. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking at the idea that led - I hope - to those who created the museum within the Ministry of Justice and propose today to pass it on to the Institute of National Remembrance, it must be stated that this idea is in principle correct. It is basically right when it comes to those who are touched, about the memory of these people, about their suffering, about the traumatic events mentioned in Rakowiecka 37. I hope that if this is done here, we will be able to speak together about the truth, including the painful one. She wasn't always just patriotic. I would like us, ladies and gentlemen, to see what happened today at the joint committee meeting. I am very sorry that this project is not a government project, because it should be. My previous speakers were talking about the role of Minister of Culture. This is the resort appointed to supervise, care of museums in Poland. I know this isn't a solution that works everywhere, but it should be, and we, being the law, should be good. Another thing that raises doubts. You know that such a museum in Poland operates in Ostrołęka. It is run jointly by the Ministry of Culture and Local Government. Too bad we didn't take that into account either. The bad thing is, we didn't even know the estimated cost. If we're talking about something, we should know how much we're going to accomplish something. It's very bad that this is happening. The next thing I know, it doesn't bode well for the big future or for the uncertain future. It is a pity that the authors have not decided to invite all parties, all clubs, parliamentary circles to create a project together. Soldiers cursed, soldiers steadfast or patriots, those who fought against the past system, were in each of our political camps. It's a pity you're taking this so hard, and you're not letting us work together on it. I am very sad that the Minister of Culture is absent today, but he is also mute today. He does not express his opinion, does not come to the meeting and gives a witness. Unfortunately, we're not in a position to know what he thinks. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, I do not yet know what recommendation I will ultimately make to my colleagues. I think the idea is right, but the way it is done is, unfortunately, once again weak, mediocre, and some people speak more forcefully. That is why I will hold off on this, but I hope that those who have been working on this project are able to think about it, take it to heart, take a deep reflection, and may return to this idea, so that it is a joint project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is true that some of the PiS projects, or most of them, are prepared rather sloppyly, quickly, on the knee. That's usually the first impression when you read it. It is also true that this law does not fully define the relationship of the museum even to the Minister of Culture. It's true. The problem is also that when people talk about the Institute of National Remembrance in this Chamber, some Members have foam on their lips and stop thinking rationally. The Institute is an important institution and should be kept in mind. He's guarding the history of our nation. He's guarding the truth. At least that's the idea of this institution. It is the salt in the eye of those who are connected to the previous system, because it tries not to allow for the counterfeiting of history, and it hurts the patricophobs. The IPN has invaluable merits especially in spreading the history after the Second World War, the history of the 20th century, of forgotten heroes, who often took arms already in the act of last resort. This must be remembered and it must also be remembered that the IPN constantly lies about the story of the cursed soldiers. He is not afraid of people such as Bury or Lupaczka because he knows that they also gave their lives for their homeland in the fight for Poland. When voting on this project, which is to result in the transfer of the authority of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic from the Ministry of Justice to the IPN, it is necessary to consider whether the Minister of Culture should not act here yet. He probably should have. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: No, no.]] The IPN is an institution that's supposed to explain, so I'm not surprised at the movement. It should also be borne in mind that if power had changed, the IPN could have been a more independent institution than the Minister of Culture, because in this case, if the Minister of Culture had changed, he could have closed such a museum overnight and no one could have done anything about it. I'm not surprised that part of this room is so opposed to this project, because I think he's calculating that when he takes over, he's gonna end it. IPN. And it won't be a problem anymore. That doesn't mean it's the right thing to do. It won't be right. And we'll keep that in mind. This does not mean that we will look uncritically at the activities of this museum, but basically we support the fact that it is going to the IPN. Interestingly, there is also a hypocritical part of this room, because many of the ministers of Ziobro, who hate the museum, hand them over to another institution and somebody opposes it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I have the impression that this is mainly about political struggle, not real action to commemorate heroes who have lost their lives, among others. by the criminals of the Polish People's Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u248	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Once again, the committee's meeting has shown how difficult it is now to sit. The arguments are not accepted, the opposing voices of some proposals are ignored, those who have the right to express their own views are unfortunately insulted and the comments of the Parliament's legislators are ignored and ignored. In the process of this project there is no sejm cooperation, but it should all depend, right here in the Polish Parliament, on the restoration of the Community memory of the independence underground after World War II. It is in the Seym that, when discussing such draft laws, we should not expand the historical propaganda that has been built for several years. Those historians who demand that the memory of the post-war underground should not obscure the actions of the Home Army or subsequent uprisings of opposition to communism. After today's committee meeting, I feel that teachers are also right, saying that in the school program, the enchanted soldiers become central figures of the Polish history of the 20th century. The project moves the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic into the gesture of the Institute of National Remembrance. Therefore, his president gives full authority over this facility. After all, the current head of the Institute of National Remembrance, to put it mildly, was not able to manage the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk, and IPN is punishing historical policy. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will vote against this law, because in our opinion it extends the competence of the institution, to which not only we do not have full confidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u250	Thank you. That's where we ended our speeches on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This bill, if it did not specifically direct the functioning of a fully-fledged museum to the Institute of National Remembrance, would be worth the procession. Am I suddenly addressing the applicants, the designers, they thought that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage - I think this area is an element of national heritage - should be run by the Minister of Culture rather than by the Institute of National Remembrance? I would therefore like to ask, what are the substantive arguments on the part of the applicants, that they foresee entrusting the functioning of this particular museum to the Institute of National Remembrance. Secondly, a multi-annual construction programme is envisaged. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask you how and with what means the Council of Ministers will finance this museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u252	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u253	Dear Marshal! High Seym! In this great dispute about the shape of Poland's historical policy, which regained independence after the Soviet occupation, the SS won. Lech Kaczyński, not making out with the criminal, murderer and Soviet collaborator Wojciech Jaruzelski Adam Michnik. [[Applause]] It's sleep. Lech Kaczyński restored the national memory of dignity and memory of Warsaw insurgents. Warsaw's capital city has a magnificent monument, which is the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising. Also sleep. Lech Kaczyński restored the knowledge and memory of soldiers cursed as the initiator of an important holiday, which takes place on March 1st, the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. And today I would like to thank Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, Patrick Jaki and Minister Sebastian Kalet very warmly for continuing this work, carrying out the will of the dead. Lech Kaczyński. It's the museum that's being built. It's a good thing he's gonna be at the National Remembrance Institute, that's where it's gonna be built. This is gonna be a great facility. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u254	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project gives hope that the IPN for almost 25 years of its activity has already accounted for all persons who committed crimes that bear the mark of crime, and will slowly start hiring museums and monument conservationists in place of prosecutors. My question concerns the budget of this museum. What was the current budget of this institution? Did the transfer of powers take place between the Ministry of Justice and the IPN? Or did the Minister hand over the museum's supervision without slimming his budget, and new funds from the state budget will be allocated to his activities? I ask you kindly to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u256	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law states: The Council of Ministers will adopt a resolution on the establishment of the multiannual programme of the Council of Ministers within 14 days of the entry into force of the Act. The construction of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw. Multiannual programme n.e.c. The construction of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic in Warsaw is an annex to this Act. Please respond in writing to the question which funds will be allocated to the programme that I quote over the years. If it does not cover the year 2022 only, please also fill in the written information for the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u259	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Chapter 6d authorises the President of the Institute to grant the statutes of the museum. Sources of funding will also be identified under and under this mandate. I would very much ask the Ministry to answer the question of what sources of funding these will be. Will the budget of the Institute of National Remembrance increase due to the acquisition of the museum and how much will it cost? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u260	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur called for this law to be passed over the divisions. It's a very good idea, and I'm all for it. Only if you want to take something over the divides, you have to listen to everyone. Members from the cultural committee were invited to this meeting today. As a live one, I do not know why, nor was there a Minister of Culture, nor was there a post of the Ministry of Culture, nor was there a representative of the Ministry of Culture. All our requests and calls, however, to ask for such an opinion and wait for it as if it had gone into the air. I have this question for the applicants: Do you really have to screw up the greatest idea? Because I don't understand. Why are you reporting a project where you're talking about a museum that isn't a museum? You're referring to the Act on Organizing and Conducting Cultural Activities and the Museums Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When legislators say that this proposal is contrary to these laws. You also believe that the Sejm can extend the validity of administrative decisions, because it, God forbid, will end on 31 December this year, and if it does not extend, it will be meatloaf. I'm really asking for a future law that can be worked on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u262	Thank you, Member. Madam President, the time has already been extended by half a minute. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u263	Thank you, Marshal, my mask is tangled. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions were: Why not the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the IPN? I don't know, but maybe it's supposed to be such a powerful institution, a quasi-ministerium of historical truth. Maybe that's what it really comes down to. Mr Szczerb mentioned sloppyness. Ladies and gentlemen, I do. In the proposed project we had a final cesuria - 1991. I don't know why 1991. The amendment is 1990. I don't know why 1990. I checked. Józef Szaniawski, the last prisoner of the Polish People's Republic, left in December 1989. Now, the most important thing is that time is on the move. There were questions at the committee meeting about the cost of this investment. There's no way we're talking about COVID. Let's leave COVID, the rising prices of materials. The law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda (Dzwonek), submitted a project on the reconstruction of the Brühl Palace and the Saski Palace, presented a cost estimate: 2400 million precisely distributed for 10 years. Everyone could have known it. Why can't you estimate the value of this investment? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u264	Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u265	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! Minister Meizo! When creating the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners, I want to emphasize: respect for those who fought for freedom and died for it, but contempt for those who murdered civilians under these noble slogans, were engaged in armed robbery or anti-Semitism. Besides the real patriots and heroes, there were also bandits. So I'm asking if you're going to forge history in this museum. Is there going to be Bure's room that is responsible for a series of war crimes? By his order, Lithuanian prisoners, the civilian population of the Belarusian nationality or Orthodox religion were shot. Will there be a Room of Lumps, which is accused of having massacreed his unit on the Lithuanian civilian population in Dubinki? [[Marshal, what is this?]] No, no. That's enough. Enough, Member. Enough of these filthy lies. Enough. Or maybe it's worth thinking about the memorial room for Bury's victim... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice. [[I just asked a question. I'm entitled to that.]] [[Voice from the hall: Are you crazy or not?]] Sure. With filthy lies, Madame, on the stand... [[That's how you lie to history.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President, please stop embarrassing yourself, because what we have just heard is shameful words. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] It is not appropriate for a Member of the Republic of Poland to give such lying, insulting texts to the heroes of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Minister! Mr. President! Is it true that the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals is a state office about research, educational, archival, investigative and search powers? Today, during the joint committee session: culture and justice, you were present Vice President of the Institute of National Remembrance Dr. Mateusz Szpytma. It is also present now, we have speeding up the proceedings of the Sejm, so please do not lie that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance is absent. I would very much like to thank Anita Czerwińska for the idea that such a museum should be created, the Ministry of Justice for doing so and that the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic exists in our country. It is good that this institution will be subject to the Institute of National Remembrance (The Bell), which is currently studying the history of our contemporary homeland. Glory be to the institute for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u268	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you specific questions. First, Minister Kalet. Were there any discussions between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Culture and National Heritage on the possible takeover of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic? If so, we ask for time limits, please make arrangements. If you don't hand it over today, we'll be asking for documents on this case. Another question: Were there discussions with the Minister of Culture on this matter? The question is addressed to the representative of the Vice President of the IPN, who is present in the Chamber. Why do you want to eliminate the article? 23? From the point of view of the Museums Act, from the point of view of this article, it is very important to have the opportunity that it shapes, concerning cooperation between museums and the possibility of converting, selling or gifting museums. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another last thing, Mrs. Marshal: What will be the connection between the functioning Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka and the target Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic? Do you see here the opportunity and the space of cooperation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Without getting into the details of this law, I believe that all the patriots and organizations that have gathered these patriots in the past should be treated equally and fairly. In the context of the debate on the law on solid soldiers, about those who were repressed by the Polish People's Republic, I wanted to ask the ministers whether the soldiers of Battalion Chłopski, the second after the Army of the Homeland underground organization during World War II, would also have the right place in history, because they were also patriots of great merit in these difficult times, fighting the invader. I think they deserve a place in history, too. If we are restoring this worthy place today, then we should (the bell) restore to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. But I don't see a Member. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nobody here questions the purpose of this museum and what Mr Szczerba said, that these are really sacred things for all Poles. But first of all, I'd really like history to be handled by historians, not politicians. This will make it very easy for us to find an agreement. Secondly, if this project is so important and urgent, why are we looking at it within 24 hours? It would really be okay if we had time to talk to the Minister of Culture, who might tell us his point if we would listen to the possibility of cooperation between the Institute of National Remembrance and the Minister of Culture, which would seem justified, because the Institute has other tasks, and a completely different way of running the museum, are also slightly different goals. I don't understand why we weren't given a chance to hear it. It seems to me that the reason is that the Ministry of Justice knows that it won't be able to meet all these deadlines and rejects this museum like a smoking potato (the bell) so that it doesn't take responsibility for it. It's a pity you're wasting such an opportunity and that we couldn't make a good, smart bill together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u274	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Glory to the Institute of National Remembrance for bringing true heroes out of the dark and restoring the correct memory to Poles. Thanks to the Institute of National Remembrance, we know who was the hero and who was the traitor, who was the victim and who was the executioner. And that's why I'm expressing my respect for the Institute of National Remembrance. [[Applause]] I have a question for the Minister or the representative of the IPN. This museum has been in existence for three years. Is there much interest in him? Because according to my knowledge, interest is very high. This museum will allow to learn more deeply the true history of the Polish people, enlighten Poles to be refined. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u276	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, there are also people who are immune to knowledge, as we have heard a few questions before. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! But why review and instruct other Members? It's completely unnecessary. If stupidity falls from the platform... Minister! I have a few questions for you, although I can see that you are actually quite thorough in listening to our statements. Why weren't they counted - and if they were, why weren't they presented to us - the cost of setting up a museum or handing it over to the museum, so to speak, to the IPN? Do you take into account that all matters relating to this investment in the future will - or otherwise - be governed only by laws? One more question: If you were Minister of Culture, wouldn't you feel a little affected today by the fact that you weren't given authority over this museum? Would you call the Minister of Justice, the head of the IPN in this case? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's best to talk based on our own examples. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u278	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This museum is a museum of still unheard wounds - wounds that have not yet been healed on the tissue of the Polish people, because there are still people close to those who were murdered there. It is necessary to remember those people who died or suffered for wanting free Poland, who wanted to live in a normal homeland. I think that there is a great role of the Institute of National Remembrance in examining this yet, because much remains to be studied there, but also in promoting this knowledge (the Bell), a difficult knowledge of these times. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Thank you. ...that the idea was to transfer the property of this museum to the Institute of National Remembrance, because that's where it belongs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u280	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Sebastian Kaleta to answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u281	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Because they lived by the law of the wolf/history of them silently, Elektra did not mourn them/ did not bury Antigon/ and they would die forever for all eternity/in deep snow. In this way, Zbigniew Herbert wrote about the drama of soldiers cursed in the poem "Wolves." In Poland, it takes a long time for history to stop fully writing about what Herbert described as a deaf silence. The enchanted soldiers did not just abandon their love for their homeland when World War II ended, but they did not abandon their weapons either. They didn't give up because of the fact that, among other things, they didn't. They were aware that if they did, they might be murdered. That's actually what happened. That's what the communists were doing in an investigative arrest on the street. Rakowiecka in Warsaw - shot to the back of the head. Today, after decades, even found bullet marks on the walls of the prison. In this very case we meet today in the Seym, so that history will stop silently talking about its heroes and that the plastered holes of bullets will discover and show history lessons, show history of oppression and terror, history of struggle and enslavement, the history of dreams which through blood and sweat have found their path to freedom. The Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic has been operating since 2016. The decision of the Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziobra was made to close the functioning detention and take action to ensure that this concrete monument dripping with the blood of Polish heroes was a place of homage to their dedication. Architectural competitions were held, construction permits were granted. Today, the Sejm decides whether this place will serve our country as part of the Institute of National Remembrance, which, based on the finances guaranteed by this Act, will carry out revitalization works to honor the heroes held there, but also to organize exhibitions that will tell the history of Poland in detail during the period of the communist yoke imposed on it in 1944. It is a unique place on the scale of Poland and Europe. This is where General Nil, rtm, was murdered. Witold Pilecki, Major Łukasz Ciepliński and hundreds of others. For these purposes, the commune held Jack Curonio, Antoni Macierewicz, Andrzej Czuma, Karol Modzelewski, Jan Litinski and hundreds, thousands of other oppositionists of the times of the Polish People's Republic. This museum does not include its memory exclusively of the cursed soldiers, ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm, this museum will tell about the struggles of millions of Poles to reject the commune also after the Stalinist period. This will be the first and unique place in Poland, which will tell the whole story of this dramatic fight of Poles for freedom. These walls did not distinguish political colors and the history of all these people is and will be told in this museum. History today can stop silently. That will be the vote on this bill. On the other hand, on the other hand, on the questions and doubts that you raised in the context of your questions, I will try to give you a detailed answer. Many questions concerned the functioning of the museum so far. I hope that, by providing this information, I will convince you and your clubs that we should adopt this law together and that you will consider the explanations that I will provide as sufficient for you to support this law together so that we can send together the signal sent by the Poles in prison. Everyone there was equal, everyone wanted free Poland. I hope that in this House, too. And we can show it. So I move on to the details raised in the questions. There were doubts as to the exclusion of certain provisions of the Museum Act. This exclusion is due to the fact that IPN is a state institution but independent of the government. This bill assumes that this principle is respected. I am afraid that if these rules were not in place, you could argue that there is an increase in the government's influence on the functioning of the IPN. And this idea is based on these rules, pointlessly, in some places excluding the supervision of the Minister of Culture regarding the functioning of the museum. On the other hand, some specific provisions, such as regulations, can be said to be very important, but relating to the preservation of museums, will apply here. The second point is why IPN... The IPN is an institution that should ultimately run this facility. Marshal Kidawa-Błońska said that this case should be dealt with by historians, not politicians. Indeed, it is no secret that the Ministry of Justice, which has set up this institution, regardless of my attempts to speak about apoliticity, is governed by politics. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But something else I meant...]] On the other hand, the idea of this law is to exclude from the current work of the government issues concerning the work of the museum and the implementation of investments. The point is that IPN can de facto expand its activities through the museum. Why? Since the first day of the museum's operation, the IPN historians have been leading figures in research work, in the preparation of temporary exhibitions or various kinds of cultural projects which the museum organizes all the time. Together with the Institute of National Remembrance, a newsletter is published. It is the historians of the IPN who are in the decision-making bodies that made the decisions about projects, about concepts. So it's not unusual that this is about the IPN. I can say more: since the first day of the IPN is part of this institution, this idea, because it was the historians of the IPN who put the most historical effort into discovering the secrets of this place. Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk and his team carried out a series of research works, discovered, exhumed the remains of people who were murdered there during various periods, including during the German occupation. So this idea, the idea of the museum, translates fully into what the IPN does. Thanks to this facility, the activities of IPN will undoubtedly develop. On the other hand, there were questions about the moment at which this change is to take place. In view of the fact that in 2016 the arrest of the investigators at ul. Rakowiecka was an active arrest, there was no formal opportunity for the Minister of Culture to set up a museum there. The question was whether the Ministry of Culture had spoken to the Ministry of Justice on this matter. Yeah, we've been talking about this for five years. But when the idea of the museum was created, there was a working arrest. In order to achieve this goal it was necessary first to eliminate the arrest and prepare the foundations for the development of possibilities, to develop a concept of how this building, this complex of objects, will be able to perform museum functions. As the Prison Service first separated a cell that had such tasks, and it was already a cell that we call the museum, the Minister of Justice had to take action to find other places for the inmates. This trial has been conducted. That cell phone also ran the competitions I was talking about. This cell also carried out the process of obtaining building permits. On the other hand, when decisions were made concerning the specific shape of this institution in the political circle and we talked about the future, the future was drawn up by the Minister of Justice, as he is not a minister of culture, when such a museum is built, it is not appropriate to supervise the functioning of the working museum. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Exactly.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Right.]] And that's when the idea of transferring it to the IPN was created. Today it is, you can say, crystallizing because we are at a crucial moment, the moment when everything that had to be done before the tender is done. There are documents received, there are permits, there is a clear concept, there are already dozens of thousands of exhibits gathered by the museum. Now we just need to revitalize the building and organize an exhibition and, therefore, establish financing. And this funding will also be guaranteed under this law. There were questions about the cost. The costs at this point are known. It's a lot of years, the whole investment process. The documentation is already known in contrast to the bill you invoked. Here we are not talking about, you can say, estimates, but already about certain specifics resulting from construction projects that are received. I'll tell you what the amounts are. In 2022, if the plan - for these documents which are already collected - will be financed, it will be PLN 7 million, in 2023 - PLN 85 million, 2024 - PLN 143 million, 2025 - PLN 227 million, 2026 - PLN 208 million, 2027 - PLN 12 million. It is a plan to implement a multi-stage investment with different stages of putting into service also, if possible, exhibitions, because there are several buildings here. And that's the cost that comes from the documentation that's been obtained. Of course, with regard to the stage of this investment and the time of implementation, this is also where the Council of Ministers will be leaning forward in a short time. There was a question about the relation of the museum in Ostrołęka to the museum on the street. It's a cancer movie. The activity of the museum in Ostrołęka is about the strict subjects of the cursed soldiers, while the activity of the museum at ul. Rakowiecka concerns, as I said earlier, the entire period of fighting the commune. This topic is wider, and above all, it's a museum in itself, this building on the street. Rakowiecka 37 is a monument. This discussion, a discussion about what to do with this place, has been waiting for us as a Polish society for some time. It seems that there is political support here, and that the most appropriate decision is that there should be a museum in this place, that this building should perform such a function today that it should not be an active arrest. That's what this project guarantees. I thank Mr Dariusz Bąk very much for his vote, the question about what has been happening in the museum for several years, because it has been functioning. Contrary to some opinions or voices that were presented today, this is not a creation, it is a transfer of something that works, something that already has its achievements, foundations and pillars, including the right to property. On the other hand, we are talking about investment and what will happen after the investment is completed. Because of COVID, the activity was limited, as you know. The entrance to this museum has only organized groups, while for several years there have been organized the most important state celebrations related to key anniversaries around which, you can say, the work of the museum is focused: 1 March and 13 December. Yesterday, there was also a public ceremony at the museum. President Andrzej Duda presented the awards to dozens of people deserved in the fight against Communists and many of them were sitting on the street. It's a cancer movie. After decades, these people at the hands of the president of free Poland received medals for the fact that the commune had thrown them into this prison. Isn't that the kind of symbol we should care about today? These celebrations are organized consistently. I cordially invite you to this place to see that these walls are really screaming. These walls scream with the voices of Poles who could not live in a free country and paid the highest price to fight for this free Polish country. The question arose as to why it was urgent. Indeed, it is justified because today we are proceeding quite dynamically. The law is not long, but organisational issues are fundamental. I do not hide this from you because, if this law is adopted efficiently, they will be able to start tendering procedures as soon as possible. Since everything concerning the preparation of the tender is ready and waiting for the basis of financing, financial guarantees, the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic after the entry into force of this law and guaranteeing financing will be able to draw up the tender. If there was no law, perhaps this investment could only take place despite such long efforts and so far away points that we have achieved, with delay, which we do not want. For this reason, among others. is also part of the provisions of this law. Mrs. Marshal! Finally, if I could ask... I hope that I have persuaded you to support this law or at least not to oppose it. On the other hand, if your Marshal would allow, because there were also questions about the status of IPN and the relationship in this process, perhaps the President of IPN would like to take the floor, then you would have the official position of IPN, already to the minutes, during today's debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u282	Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, the questions were addressed personally to the President, the Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Therefore, I invite Mr Mateusz Szpytma, Deputy President of the Institute of National Remembrance. I would like to ask you to answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to apologize for not being here since the beginning of the discussion, but initially this item was due to be here at 3 p.m. 4:30 p.m., that's what we got, then at 4:00 p.m. 16.15, finally - at 4 p.m. 3:30. But we've been at the Sejm committee for two and a half hours, which shows that we're taking this case seriously. Maybe I'll say a word about why Dr. Karol Nawrocki's president isn't here. Today, in Lublin, he hands to the combatants, those who are being repressed, to opposition activists the democratic crucifixes of freedom and solidarity. This deadline was set earlier than today's meeting. Excuse us. With regard to what you have mentioned, I would like to start by quoting the recital which was adopted in this Chamber 23 years ago, in 4 days there will be 23 years: In view of the actions of citizens carried out in behalf of the independent existence of the Polish state in defence of freedom and human dignity, the law regulates... And then, in 1998, when this decision was taken to establish the Institute of National Remembrance, we were assigned scientific, educational, investigative and archival tasks, and these were three pawns. In 2006 the decision of the High Chamber came to the illusory pawn, and in 2016 - the pawn commemorating battles and martyrdom. Now a group of Members, supported by the Ministry of Justice, submitted a project allowing the president of the Institute of National Remembrance to run a museum. I would like to thank you for this confidence in the authorities of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is so that we, ladies and gentlemen, with this plot, with this story, have been working from the very beginning and the subject of the cursed soldiers, political prisoners, at the root of the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance. We have published a lot of books on this subject, we have dealt with very many aspects in various areas. I must tell you that, although we do not have a statutory delegation so far to establish museums, we run places, chambers of remembrance. We've got one place on the street. Shooting 8 in Warsaw, in Prague, where the first seat of the NKVD was located. It shows the crimes of the NKVD and the security office. You can come, you can see. It proves that the Institute of National Remembrance can and can also deal with tasks that concern museums. As it so happens, in the current leadership of the Institute of National Remembrance... He is headed, as you have noticed many times, by Dr. Karol Nawrocki, who for four years was the director of one of the largest museums in Poland, so he has excellent experience in this field. At the same time he is a member of the Council of the Museum of Soldiers of Cursed and Political Prisoners of the Polish People's Republic, which we are talking about. The second vice-president, Professor Karol Polejowski, is a longtime employee of the World War II Museum, as well as a museum in Malbork. I will say immensely that I am the co-creator of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The Ulm families in Markowa. As you can see, we have some experience. We are sure that, in terms of substance and organization, we will be able to handle this. Questions have been raised as to the question of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I know that President Nawrocki is in an excellent professional relationship with Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, so I am convinced that this cooperation will also work very well with this museum. On the other hand, I am unable to answer the question whether there have been formal discussions between the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ministry of Culture. That's what you'd have to ask the president. And finally, we'd like this to be a place that connects. It is really special in the history of Poland. Here just from 1945 until 1989, various people were imprisoned. This is about names that are textbook, and also names that co-create our democracy today, whether we are looking at the right side or looking at another part of the room. Also from this side - here I look at the Civic Platform - there are many people who were imprisoned there and who co-create your formation. We are also hoping that we will create this museum together. Besides, the experience of the current management has also shown that it is not as bad as it is... At the committee meeting, the editor, Mr Piotr Adamowicz, mentioned that Marshal Borusewicz would not give me anything for this museum in his life. We're gonna appeal for something different. And I'll tell you, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's colleagues just gave it to him. So maybe if a little time passes, you'll see that it's not going to be a political museum in any sense. If you look at our publications honestly, you will see that they are very different, they are on every subject. There are those that will suit you, and those that will suit you - it's just important that they have the right historical workshop. On the other hand, in reply to the question of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk's Polish People's Party, I will only say that when it comes to the Chłopskie Battalions, it is not forgotten, because it is also discussed in the recently opened cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of the Museum of Martyrology of Polish Villages in Michniów. There is much to be said by the rapporteur, Mr July. In addition, two years ago, in cooperation with the Office for Combatants, and in cooperation with the Polish People's Party, we unveiled a very beautiful monument on Mokotów in Warsaw dedicated to soldiers of the Battalions of Boys and the People's Union of Women. This monument is an excellent object at which we meet at least once a year. So there are a lot of these initiatives, and if you have any other ideas, but also accusations, then Dr. Karol Nawrocki is really an open person who doesn't even care about the attacks. I think I can say on his behalf that he will not only be happy to meet you on the occasion of annual activity reports and budget requests, but he also invites everyone to his office from the right to the left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The committee rapporteur, Mr Krzysztof July, also asked for the floor. I ask you very much, sir, but I am already calling for a summary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u285	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the sake of order, I just wanted to clarify one point, because the same at the meeting of the joint committees and today, during this debate, was the charge that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is not present. I would like to say that you know very well that in the legislative proceedings in the Polish Parliament there are not representatives of individual ministries, only representatives of the government. In the course of the legislative work on this bill, the government delegated the Minister of Justice, which was represented today by Secretary of State Sebastian Kaleta. And I am grateful to the Minister that he has so beautifully summed up this legislative process, although it is fast but really necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u286	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws (Prints No 1835 and 1836). I kindly ask Mr Peter King to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a report on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the Driver's Working Time Act and some other laws, print No. 1835. The report of the Committee on Infrastructure will be 1836. I would just like to remind you that the purpose of the bill is to transpose into the Polish legal order art. 2 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 laying down specific provisions with regard to Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU concerning the posting of drivers in the road transport sector and amending Directive 2006/22/EC as regards enforcement requirements and Regulation No 1024/2012, which is one of the acts included in the so-called "law enforcement requirements'. The Mobility Package. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 9 December 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. I would like to say that eight amendments were adopted at today's meeting and six amendments were rejected. The Committee on Infrastructure, after carrying out this first reading and considering the draft law and considering the amendments, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u288	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the scope of the draft law submitted by the government on amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the working time of drivers and some other laws, print No. 1835. The purpose of the bill is to transpose into the Polish legal system adopted, functioning in the European legislation of the Directive and the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which are part of the so-called "European Parliament and Council." Mobility Package I. As envisaged by the EU legislator, the package adopted aims to create a safe, efficient and socially responsible road transport sector. In addition, the aim of the Directive is to strike a balance between improving the social and working conditions of drivers and increasing the freedom to provide road transport services on the basis of fair competition between domestic and foreign carriers, thereby contributing to improving the functioning of the road transport market in the European Union. The proposal also proposes the necessary amendments to existing legislation, with a view to eliminating confusion and improving the legibility of legal standards which are difficult to interpret. It should be pointed out that regulation of road transport, heavy transport within the European Union due to Poland's reservations about the solutions adopted is the subject of numerous actions by the Polish government to counter the loss of competitiveness of Polish companies in the transport sector. It is also worth emphasising the opening of the Ministry of Infrastructure with us here in the Chamber of Minister Rafał Weber for dialogue with road transport companies. Today, at the committee meeting, business representatives have often stressed this. This dialogue actually lasted until yesterday. Minister Rafał Weber also participated in talks in the road transport forum. In the course of the multi-month consultation with transport operators, amendments were adopted, various decisions by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government, but I also think that the amendments that were adopted today at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and are likely to be adopted during the Senate meetings will allow for the improvement of national law so that this law can be neutral for the road transport market. Due to the need to adapt the Polish right to the final regulations of the Mobility Package I, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u290	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Paweł Papke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u291	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club. Print No. 1835 is a draft law on amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws. The aim of the project, as my predecessor mentioned, is to transpose into the Polish legal order art. 2 Directive 2020/1057 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 which forms part of the so-called "European Parliament and of the Council'. The Mobility Package. Member States were required to take the measures necessary for its implementation by 2 February 2022 and those measures should apply from that date. In line with the recital in the preamble to the Directive, it aims to create a safe, efficient and socially responsible road transport sector. Furthermore, the aim of the Directive is to ensure a balance between improving the social and working conditions of drivers and increasing the freedom to provide road transport services on the basis of fair competition between domestic and foreign carriers, which should consequently contribute to the proper functioning of the road transport market throughout the European Union. The proposed law also introduces changes aimed at increasing the effectiveness of supervision of the transport services market in Poland, eliminating unfair competition between carriers and better protecting the internal market against unfair competition from non-EU carriers. The draft law also aims to ensure the application of the provisions of the Regulation amending the Regulation as regards minimum requirements for maximum daily and weekly driving times, minimum breaks and daily and weekly rest periods and amending Regulation No 165/2014 as regards the determination of position by tachographs. Unfortunately, attention should be paid to the tardiness of the government and the implementation of this directive at the last minute. The time until 2 February 2022 remained very little. This will make it difficult for transport companies to properly prepare for the new law. Attention should also be paid to the failure of the government in negotiations with the European Union in order to ensure the best possible protection for Polish transport companies. Unfortunately, during inflation, expensive fuel and the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland, companies will lose their profitability, which could threaten to bankrupt and lose jobs. I'm sure the carriers will turn the cost of operations into their co-operatives. In the end, of course, there is the last link, the consumer. Thus, we will soon see an increase in retail prices and service prices. Members together with the transport environment at today's meeting of the Infrastructure Committee proposed six very important amendments which would significantly facilitate the survival and ensure the financial competitiveness of Polish transport companies. Unfortunately, all these amendments were rejected. Fortunately, it was a declaration from the government, from Minister Weber, that during the work of the Senate, the government with the social side and the Senate would return to them and, after their thorough examination, reflection, would accept them. We're hoping you'll keep your word. Finally, Minister, I want to say one thing. You yourself are a parliamentarian. 288 pages is such a big book. Parliamentarians only had a few dozen hours to read this project and to give it an opinion. I don't think that's what working in the Seym should be like. On the basis of the above, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will conditionally support the proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other Print Act No 1835. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Kopiec will speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left in relation to Print Act 1835. The project concerns the adaptation of the Polish law to the European Union rules which form the so-called. mobility package. The package records relate, among others, to: rules on the remuneration of drivers engaged in international road transport in accordance with the rules of the host country in force, recognising them as posted workers. I will recall the most important solutions proposed. From 20 May 2022, the new rules will impose on road freight undertakings using vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 2,5 tonnes and is not greater than 3,5 tonnes, obligations relating to access to the occupation of road transport operator in the international transport of goods. The operation of such transport will require authorisation by the carrier for the occupation of road transport operator and Community licence. The rules on access to the occupation of road transport operator have been clarified. This includes: requirements related to the establishment of an entrepreneur. The obligation to keep accounts in Poland will be introduced. A catalogue of infringements has been extended which exclude compliance with the requirements of good repute by the trader and transport manager. Provisions for the operation of cabotage operations in the European Union have been clarified taking into account the rules for the execution and control of such transport operations in Poland. The changes made mainly improve the financial situation of drivers, while they will generate additional costs for entrepreneurs. Industry representatives pointed out during the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee that inevitable legislative changes should be made as soon as possible so that entrepreneurs can prepare for the changes ahead and actually implement new solutions, which will be directly linked to the adaptation of employment contracts with drivers. The Ministry claims that the changes made are also aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the surveillance of the transport services market in Poland, eliminating unfair competition between carriers and better protecting the internal market. The transport industry is aware that the introduction of the Mobility Package I is inevitable, but, as we pointed out during the committee meeting together with Mr Suchoń from Poland 2050, please support the amendment aimed at cutting down to only the necessary penalties in the new tariff broker. The changes made should not go beyond the implementation of European Union law and unduly burden entrepreneurs. Mobility Package I is one of the biggest challenges for the transport industry recently. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Infrastructure has only just started detailed work on this project in the Sejm, industry representatives, aware of the revolutionary level of changes, already in December ub. They asked the Ministry to start legislative work as soon as possible so that there would be time for a calm discussion and analysis of all the controversy. It is a pity that the legislative work on this project has taken so long. I regret that we were not able to analyse all the entries contained in the project presented by the Ministry with greater attention. At a committee meeting, the Minister stated that the project was not refined and that the Ministry wanted to improve it in the Senate, which depreciates the importance of the Committee on Infrastructure. Between 2022 and 2031 the maximum expenditure limit for the Main Road Transport Inspectorate will be less than PLN 177 million, while reconstruction of the Saski Palace will cost almost PLN 2.5 billion. We can all admit that GITD brings much more in terms of safety on Polish roads than the Saski Palace when it comes to the solid position of Poland on the international stage. Here is the question to the Minister: Have you considered increasing the level of funding for road transport inspections? It should be remembered that the transport industry is a very important branch of the Polish economy. If we want to operate on the European market while remaining competitive, we should implement the EU directive as soon as possible and as transparently as possible without leaving room for ambiguity on interpretation. The Left Club supports the opposition's amendments and supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u294	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u295	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in relation to the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the law on road transport, the Act on the working time of drivers and some other laws, print no. 1835. The purpose of the bill is to transpose into the Polish legal order art. 2 Directive 2020/1057 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 laying down specific provisions with regard to Directive 96/71/EC and Directive 2014/67/EU concerning the posting of drivers in the road transport sector and amending Directive 2006/22/EC as regards enforcement requirements and Regulation No 1024/2012 of the European Union hereinafter referred to as Directive 2020/1057 of the European Union, which constitutes one of the acts included in the so-called "law enforcement requirements'. Mobility Package I. The first amendments to the Mobility Package were introduced in August 2020. The driver should return to his place of residence or place of business at least every 4 weeks. The driver must not have a regular 45-hour weekly rest in the cab of the vehicle, but should use the hotel or a place suitable for this purpose. There has been a possibility of two short weekly rests in international transport in a row, but a number of conditions have to be met. From 2 February 2022, the driver at the beginning of the first stop after crossing the border of the Member State will enter the symbol of the country to which he entered. This stop is to take place at or after the nearest stop at the border. The adjustment to the minimum salary will not apply in the case of transit and bilateral transport for two additional operations: loading and unloading. In the case of transfers carried out by a carrier between two countries, the carrier may not be established in either of them. There's a lot of change. The provisions apply from 20 May 2022 to road transport operators using vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 2,5 t and is not more than 3,5 t, obligations relating to access to the occupation of road transport operator in the international transport of goods. Thus, there is quite a lot of change and they will affect transport operators to a large extent, which announce that, as a result of the increase in the salaries of drivers operating international road transport, the cost of these salaries may increase by up to 100%, which will make national companies less attractive on the market. The result of the changes may be the transfer of activities from Poland to another country, e.g. German. These changes will be most felt in countries such as Poland, where, according to all statistics, the minimum wage is not too high compared to wages in some countries of the European Union. Polish employers will have to pay up to the amount of the foreign pay in force in the country concerned. Applying the new rules will increase the costs incurred by transport companies. In order to avoid losses, transport companies will certainly raise prices and, as a result, prices will increase, the cost of services will increase, so we will cover these differences as consumers of the end. I hope that the rulers will reflect and introduce the changes that the Minister spoke about today at the committee meeting and that the amendments that were actually tabled by the business community will be taken into account. In reply today, the Minister said: if you amend the Senate, we will support it after they have been adopted, because we realise that this needs to be adapted, while some issues do not need to enter into force at this point in time. Let us respect Polish entrepreneurs, let us respect Polish carriers, let us take care of them, because the effects of the pandemic (The Bell) have already felt strongly, and these changes will affect them even more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski will speak on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland was the leader of road transport in Europe. Over 20% Polish companies carried out all road transport. We were a leader in cabotage in France, Germany and the European Union wanted to reduce this. It's not weird. Mobility package is precisely what we are doing: reducing our transport revenues. Cases concerning the limitation of cabotage, the spending of breaks in vehicle cabins, the return of cars to the country, the rules on the posting of drivers, the increase of penalties are intended to serve this purpose and there is no surprise. Unfortunately, as a result of its failure, the government was unable to stop this process and the Mobility Package at EU level came into force, but what we saw in connection with the implementation of this right to Polish law is a bit of an exaggeration. Last night we got a print to read, today at 3 p.m. A committee meeting took place at 9 a.m. 17 this was introduced to the sitting and the vote will probably take place tomorrow. Are you kidding me? Really? On the amendments, the Minister said: we do not have time to make amendments, maybe the Senate will succeed. What happens if it doesn't work? What if it doesn't work out in the Senate? Our entrepreneurs are gonna be wasting their time on this because you guys couldn't afford more time so we could have a normal seym procedure? Is this serious treatment of the Sejm and legislation in Poland? No, it's gonna be another legal thing that transport companies are gonna get their ass kicked for once again. This is really frivolous treatment of all of this. I believe that this should disqualify further investigation of this project. Plus, naturally, by the way, you decided to take advantage of it because the government never misses an opportunity to increase your income. In view of the increase in these salaries next year, for example, the amount of over PLN 2 billion will be paid to the ZUS, the NFZ will gain from the PIT advance, everything will go up. Almost PLN 5 billion. Who's gonna pay for this? Entrepreneurs will pay, they're supposed to have money. You have increased the number of jobs in different places and instead of helping these entrepreneurs and making an attempt to remove them from the foreign market as little as possible so as to give them a chance to develop, you are also killing them. This will shut them down with the possibility of developing rolling stock, it will close them with the possibility of introducing increases for employees, so that some of the employees will probably move abroad, and maybe even the entire companies will move. Implementation of this law means to a large extent the collapse of Polish road transport abroad. Therefore, as a Confederation, we apply for rejection of this government project in its entirety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u298	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u299	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 regarding the government draft law on amending the Road Transport Act, the Act on the working time of drivers and some other laws. High Izbo! The aim of this project is to implement the Directive 2020/1057 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2020 as part of the Mobility Package. These provisions should apply from 2 February 2022, which means that this is basically the last time they need to be implemented, and I will start there. The Directive entered into force on 1 August 2020. However, I cannot resist the reflection that it is too late, that the work could have started earlier. This is not dictated by the willingness to make a plea against the government, but by the willingness to create stable and predictable conditions for the industry in Parliament, and certainly waiting until the last minute is not what builds this stability. However, decisions must be taken today because we are at the threshold of the entry into force of the rules. When the work started, the first project looked like a grenade. This grenade, if it had actually survived to this day, would certainly have blown up the entire transport industry and it probably would have had to go back to some horse transport, because under the conditions that were originally in the project, certainly the industry would not have been able to. We can't run away from the economic consequences. The result of the Mobility Package unfortunately is a deterioration of the conditions of operation of Polish companies and the government is responsible for this. This is a direct fault of the government, which instead of taking care of economic interests, as the French, Germans, have engaged in a senseless and losing political war on control of the justice system. Today the ministry and the government are outraged that the Germans, the French, are fighting for their own. But we demand from the government - fight for Polish companies, fight for the Polish economy, not politics, because there are really other places for this. As I said, this project has evolved, so here I will appreciate the fact that it has come up against many of the expectations of the transport industry, but there are at least six matters to be dealt with, which the whole industry has agreed, and has put forward in a uniform position. This is what my honourable previous speakers have already said: Mr Kopiec, Mr Papke and Mr Krajewski. I'm sure Mr Grabarczyk will also talk about it. But on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 makes six amendments. In particular, they were discussed (the bell) at the committee meeting. The minister at the committee meeting said it was too early that it was positive, but it was a little early. Second reading, Minister, this is the moment when a man's decision has to be made, to support the Polish transport industry and to accept the amendments of the transport industry, which I hereby allow your marshal to make. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u300	Thank you very much. Please make your amendments. Thank you. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the public consultation, it was argued that the implementation of this project would result in diets and flat-rate drivers in transport companies being treated as part of remuneration and subject to tax and additional social security contributions. Such changes will result in an average increase of more than 17% in labour costs for non-delegated drivers in international transport. For drivers posted in international transport there will be an even higher increase in costs, which will reduce the competitiveness of Polish transport companies. Dear Minister, Can we implement provisions adapting Polish law to EU regulations so that Polish entrepreneurs are not harmed? Thank you, and I ask you to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The purpose of this amendment to the Road Transport Act is to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament. She entered last year and needs to be transferred to the Polish law to resolve this directive by 2 February 2022. One of the entities that will carry out the audit part of the legal solutions contained in the Act is the Road Transport Inspection, as well as its voivodship branches. There are also tasks for local governments. The Act provides for additional funds precisely for inspection and for its branches due to increased employment. I would like to ask what new tasks will be carried out in this connection by the county government and where are the financial resources secured for the implementation of tasks carried out by the county government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction to the agenda of this item a few hours after submitting 500 pages of the Act to the Sejm shows that Members are being treated in a serious way. Worse still, it also shows that the whole transport industry is being treated frivolously. The government had almost 2 years to prepare the relevant legislation and implement it. Instead, the government dealt with the fights for stools, the creation of new ministries and the filling of new Mezzians ministers in these positions. The Act significantly changes the conditions of operation of transport-related entities and this should be the subject of discussions and analyses by the High House. Meanwhile, we have a statutory great Pardubicka, there are a few hours to get acquainted with 500 pages of this bill. I have a question: What will change with regard to (the bell) the tasks of local governments, and what funding will local governments receive in this respect from the state budget? [[Applause]] Thank you. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Government bill amending the Road Transport Act, the Driver Working Time Act and some laws - of course by surprise, yesterday, after probably a year and a half of hard ministry work. There is a question and I will ask for a written reply: What increased resources will go to the Road Transport Inspection, with particular emphasis on the Silesian Voivodeship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u309	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you a little bit from the side about the transport industry. In many other countries, the transport industry receives support for its activities. It is, of course, within the limits of the widely understood possibilities that exist in the European Union. This support is linked, for example, to the possibility of certain grants for rolling stock, the renewal of rolling stock, certain grants for reducing emissions and the creation of new solutions that can be financed under the available financial resources. The question is whether the government in this difficult situation, in which the industry will unfortunately have to bear billions of costs associated with compliance with the new rules, provides for any support (the bell). Many other industries receive such support. Will there be support for the transport industry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u310	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've finally done something to sort out some road pathology we've been talking about for a long time. Polish drivers are treated as train steers whose sole purpose is to transport as many goods as possible in the shortest possible time at the lowest price. You've finally paid attention to the problem of breaks at work. Public transport drivers spent the whole day driving practically without rest - or business delegations - and this is because of the regulations that we serve to pay as little as possible to international drivers. Thanks to this act, the professional situation of a group of several thousand people will become better, and that is why I support it. But it's only one side of the coin. Protests have been in the budget for many months, including. Civil police personnel, Road Transport Inspections or State Labour Inspections, i.e. persons responsible for road safety. When are you gonna notice that? When will you begin to value their work? Even good rules will not solve the problem if they are not implemented and enforced by anyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u313	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! We are all aware that road transport is an important part of the Polish economy. Polish transport companies hit western markets with their conscientiousness, meeting deadlines and good car rolling stock. The success of Polish drivers in the European market has become a salt in the eye of the western expensive wheel transport. Unfortunately, today's proposals for amendments to the Act are mostly forced by the European Union, which wants to force Polish drivers to impose additional requirements, limitations and costs, which unfortunately is to bring back greater competitiveness for French or German transport companies. Dear Minister, On behalf of myself, but also of the drivers, I would like to thank you for dozens of meetings with representatives of transport companies, thanks to which we have been able to draw up laws that affect as little as possible the sectors of Polish circular transport and at the same time Polish drivers. Minister! In view of today's proposals to amend the law, I have a question: Which Polish MEPs in the European Union defended Polish road transport and who were silent and the fate of Polish drivers was indifferent to them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u315	As you have played a theatrical opposition to these regulations in the European Union, you are now implementing them exemplaryly. I would say: not only exemplary, but even overzealously, because as an exemplary student we not only implement these regulations, as the Union dreamed, instead of trying to e.g. to do so in a way that does not work, since it is not good for us, but we have already solved the tasks with the star and implemented our own regulations in spite of Polish companies and Polish drivers. As we cried at the funeral, we are now entering the consumption of the deceased: PLN 5 million in the budget next year, PLN 70 billion in the next 10 years. I see, however, that it has tempted and we prefer to rob our drivers rather than defend them by stupid regulations from the European Union. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u316	Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Responding to questions of several people: GITD - 97 jobs, 110 million PLN, WITD - 330 jobs, 370 million PLN. No, sorry: PLN 260 million and PLN 370 million all together. Somewhere over there on one of those 350 or 400 pages, it's written down. Question for 100 points. Why are you looting Polish companies to reinvest PLN 370 million in order to give them more punishment? What's the point? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Stay, I will answer, please stay in the courtroom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u318	Oh, dear. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish transport companies run the European Union market. They built their advantage on solidity, investment in equipment and lower wages than in western Europe. Today transport works as much as 7% Polish GDP and gives 700,000 jobs. persons. The contested law, although adapting the Polish law to the EU rules creating the so-called law. The Mobility Package I deals with the rules on the remuneration of drivers engaged in international road transport, recognising them as posted workers, and in the assessment of the stakeholders themselves, it is a real threat of eliminating thousands of jobs in transport. The basic question is: What did the government do, what diplomatic measures were taken to protect the interests (The Bell) of Polish transport companies in the EU in this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u320	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, in Europe, one of the best, most sought-after goods is work and skilled workers. Transport is the key to handling the economy, to delivering goods. We see in the UK that everything could have collapsed as a result of underappreciation of transport - and cooperation, and various other issues related, for example. with trade in goods. So this is a very important field of public, economic life. I wanted to ask, looking at the huge competition which is in Europe: How many Polish drivers can work in other European companies, e.g. In the UK? And second question: What could threaten Polish transport companies with regard to competition, to remain on the European market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u322	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u323	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've got it on me this time. Minister, that's about 300 pages. And the Polish Parliament had several dozen hours to read the above proposals for regulation, opinions and other documents to prove that this law was necessary. You're also a parliamentarian. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. Hence the question: Why has the public consultation with the transport industry continued for so long, and why has government work on this project taken so long that we have so little time here in Parliament to make it before 2 February 2022? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u324	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are dealing with this law because we are implementing the result of work in the European Union on the Mobility Package. But in the work on this package, the Polish government has suffered a disaster and today we should be wondering how the road transport industry will be covered by a shield. What ideas does the government have in this regard in order to improve the situation of representatives of the transport industry? This industry is a power in Europe. Today we can still say that. But how will it be after February when these regulations come into force? Everyone is asking themselves that question, and the Minister must answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u326	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that this is not a Mobility Package, but a lack of mobility, since drivers are posted to a given country, so to speak, permanently and earn money there. But I have two questions. The first question concerns disputes that exist in this regard. These cases were unregulated and very often the office is visited mainly by owners of small companies who have disputes with drivers. Will this solution affect the resolution of these disputes? And second question: What about drivers of third countries who sometimes carry out transports in Poland or other (the bell) countries of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal, I didn't think I'd ever agree with Mr Francis Sterczewski. Yes, I agree, there are cases of abuse, the use of Polish drivers by Polish carriers. We don't have to look far. After all, here in Warsaw, the capital city ruled by Vice-President of the Civic Platform of Rafał Trzaskowski, we have cases of serious abuse, tragedies related to the incorrect calculation of working hours by drivers. It is therefore a good thing that in the end these provisions of the Act regulate and regulate the rules of employment of drivers. Minister, does this project introduce rules for the remuneration of drivers engaged in international transport on the basis of rules in force in the host country, provided that they are considered as posted workers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u330	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law imposes new obligations on ITS, on the local government, as has been mentioned many times here. Many Members have spoken of this. But today was a half-day budget debate. Listening to it, I did not hear that this bill and the financial consequences of the adoption of this law were somehow included in the budget expenditure. So I'm asking the Minister if that's the case. Will such measures, and to what extent, follow the adoption of this law? This is definitely gonna happen. Such a conclusion after listening to the budget debate and the current discussion: if it is so good and is to be so good, why is it so bad? Why So Many Entrepreneurs Isn't she just complaining? They're ripping their hair off that it's gonna be tragic that they're gonna be punks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u332	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u333	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I asked about the pace, the Minister even rudely answered me at the committee meeting. We remember a recent discussion about eliminating tolls on gates, introducing e-TOLL, the possibility of buying tickets, e-tickets, paper tickets. Today, after two weeks of operation, we see how it works. Just go to the portals, just watch videos on social networks about what drivers think about your solutions today. The bubel rushes the bubel, which will ultimately be paid by the drivers, because they cannot buy tickets, because paper tickets are not available, and at the end they will get a proper call and pay 400 or 500 PLN. This will be the case in this case, when at a pace you do everything, without proper debate, without discussion, without asking the social side, actually carriers (the bell), because different associations will speak their own. And what do the carriers say about this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u334	Thank you. One final question, Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since so much has been said about carriers now from the Seym Hall, I would like to ask such a question. Moreover, the answer to these questions is in the bill presented by the Minister. How many entities were consulted on this bill? I mean the actors, the transport companies, but also the social side. How many of their opinions were accepted by the government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u336	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to answer the questions raised. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u337	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I may start with a proposal that has been made, which consists in rejecting this project at second reading, because nothing a more harmful country can come up with. Nothing fits more into the German or French scenario than such a proposal. Because that is precisely what it is all about, that since 2 February in Poland nothing will change, so that the Mobility Package intact by Polish legislation can enter into force, because then costs that would potentially be borne by Polish road carriers in any other country of the European Union, especially in Germany, France, Italy, Spain, would be much higher than what we propose in the legislation. One day, I'd ask if this application was written cyrillic, but it wasn't written cyrillic. He was written by you in German or French and you can see whose business you represent. On the other hand, as far as the Mobility Package itself is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, those who say that the government was passive, that the government did not fight these rules, I want to say very clearly that the Mobility Package is a child of the Civic Platform, is a child of the Left, is a child of the PSL, is a child of those political factions that belong to the EPP in the European Parliament, they belong to the liberals and belong to the Social Democrats. It is these factions that have driven like crazy to finally come into force and, unfortunately, have tried very hard to reduce the transport market or very strongly restrict transport companies, which have developed so well over the past years. Between 2015 and 2019, the King or President of Europe, and formally President of the European Council, was Donald Tusk. [[Without Tusk, there's no life.]] Please indicate one quote from this gentleman in which he would refer to the Mobility Package, one quote in which he would criticise these provisions, one quote in which he would stress that they would be discriminatory for Polish carriers. [[And Jarosław Kaczyński something...]] I didn't find that phrase. Donald Tusk, when it comes to the Mobility Package, put up a white flag. It was the Polish Government who prepared the complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union that the Government of Law and Justice encouraged nine other countries to do so: seven did so individually, the other two joined Poland as regards this complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The ball's still in the game. We've used them in these complaints. not only economic, economic or legal arguments - legal arguments in terms of restricting competitiveness - but we have also recently used very fashionable ecological arguments. Because the Mobility Package is pseudo-ecological, it's anti-ecological, it's acclimatic. The implementation of regulations that require the company to return the vehicle to its seat brings an increase in CO2 emissions of 3 million tons per year. This is indicated not only by the analysis prepared by the Institute of Automobile Transport at the request of the Polish government, but also by the analysis prepared at the request of the European Commission. And what does the European Commission do with this analysis? He hasn't done anything yet, although we continue to exert pressure with the like-minded countries to use this document for a strong revision of the Mobility Package. If the economic, economic, financial, legal arguments do not help, then maybe eventually these wonderful ecological arguments will take the upper hand and show the way. So that the ball in the assessment of the Ministry of Infrastructure is still in the game. If it wins common sense, if it wins logic, it should be considered inappropriate for the Mobility Package either to some extent by the Court of Justice of the European Union, or earlier by the European Commission or the Commissioner for Transport, Mrs Vălean, to take the legislative initiative herself, so as to change at least those partially harmful provisions. And I have a subcutaneous belief that it will be. Of course, you're not interested in this, you don't even have the slightest idea at what stage it is, but, of course, criticism is very strong... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Minister, don't exaggerate. Don't insult the MPs, okay? Let's respect each other. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Your Marshal... We require the opposition to respect each other, so let us respect the opposition too. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal!]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Good. [[Voice from the hall: Well, have you nothing more to say?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for mutual respect. I have drawn your attention, and I have also drawn your attention. Minister, continue. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: As regards support for the industry, I also encourage you to do homework and to count how much the road transport industry received from the crisis shield during the COVID-19 pandemic. Such data can be obtained, you can boldly use what the Polish Development Foundation has prepared, and then tens of millions of zlotys will come out, which were of course passed on to all companies in Poland, including those who provide transport services, also in the field of international transport. I think the numbers are going to come out here very interestingly. I wonder if you'll reach for that information. On the other hand, with regard to current or future issues, who will benefit from the national road construction programme, mainly consisting in the construction of motorways and expressways, who will benefit from these investments? They will be used by Polish transport companies, Polish transport companies. Thanks to this network of high-speed roads good, all kinds of goods will be transported faster, safer, in more comfortable conditions. And it is the Polish transport companies that will benefit from this good. If you point to any excessive burden on carriers or all those operating in Poland, please compare the tolls that are currently in our country to those that occur in other countries not only in the European Union, but also more broadly in countries that are not associated in the European Union. It's going to come out very interestingly. If memory serves me right, when it comes to road tolls, we are only for Bulgaria, i.e. In Bulgaria alone, road tolls levied on vehicles weighing more than 3.5 t are lower than in Poland. It is also worth noting that there was no valorization, revalorisation or increase in road tolls in recent years, at least during the rule of law and justice. As regards the questions of consultation that you have been asking, these have actually taken place in the last few months. The Ministry of Infrastructure submitted a bill asking for inclusion in the list of government work in April this year, i.e. more than 8 months ago. So difficult and complicated, but above all, the new matter required months of working together with the carrier environment, earlier, of course, with the trade unions that represented drivers. There are two sides to this business here. Something that is in the interests of the entrepreneur is not entirely in the interests of the trade union and vice versa. We had to balance all those rations. As some of you may have heard today at the Committee on Infrastructure not from me, but from the carriers who were there today, these rules are acceptable, they are the least evil that can happen to them at the moment. Turning to the details of remuneration issues, we regulate them in exactly the same way that wages are regulated, in which the pay model of posted workers is regulated in all other areas, in all other professions. Here, the driver's profession in terms of pay will be subject to the same rules as any other profession. In Poland this situation will, of course, take place from 2 February next year. As far as influences are concerned, they are also specified in the OSR, i.e. in the impact assessment of the regulation. Due to the new model of remuneration, the most revenue will be directed to the Social Security Office and the NFZ, but these are funds from which later drivers, whether retiring or pensioning, whether on sick leave, will be paid back. This is not the case with pensions at minimum wage level, regardless of whether it is 2600 PLN, 3000 PLN or 3200 PLN, or otherwise when pension contributions are paid from the average in the national economy. It's gonna be like this since February 2nd next year. So the contributions will be paid to the Social Security Office, but the Social Security Office will be the intermediary and will then transfer them to pension or pension benefits. Later, he will redirect them to such a driver as a witness. Similarly, contributions to the National Health Fund. The greater the basis for the payment of contributions, the greater the sickness benefit in the event of an employee's incapacity. So that someone who says that suddenly the state budget will benefit and be gold-plated when the rules come into force is wrong. It's from the OSR. Another issue concerns the amendments that have been tabled - now I see it - once again by the Members of the opposition. Using a few hours of gap between the committee meeting and the second reading in the plenary room, we have worked through these amendments. We do not deny their introduction or their substantive value. Anyway, I talked about it at the committee meeting. On the other hand, we already see the necessary legislative adjustments to be made so that there is no question of interpretation. That's what we're gonna do. I am convinced that during the work of the Senate we will be able to convince the senators to introduce them, and that we will also be helped by carriers who are also calling for amendments. Finally, I would like to thank all those who want to see road transport developing in Poland and Europe. And, ladies and gentlemen, why has road transport in Europe developed over the last few years? Because we are in the European Union. We can drive freely, we do not need to ask for road permits, as it was when we were not in the European Union. We don't have to stand at the border, wait for checks, and then waste our time delivering goods or bringing them into our country. It is thanks to the fact that we are in the European Union that Polish carriers have succeeded. Talk, gentlemen, to the Confederate colleagues, to those who were at the committee meeting today. If it had not been for existence in the European Union, even with all of these - say - negative things that are sticking together in the meantime, Polish carriers would not have been so successful. I hope that by implementing the Mobility Package, we will create for them, together with our forces, the conditions under which they can continue to develop. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u338	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure to submit a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and on the amendment of certain laws (Print No. 1692). I kindly ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Marcin Zielenecki to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have been honoured - and at the same time it is a great pleasure - to present to the High Chamber a draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and amending certain laws. The bill provides for the introduction of an internship pension into the Polish social security system. This is a project under which 235 thousand signed. citizens of our country. The project was signed by older people, working together, who in many cases had decades of hard work, often performed under special conditions, with significant health-related harm, as well as by the younger people, often children of such workers who knew about the autopsy, after 40 years of hard, exhausting work: between work for three shifts, home rest, further visits to the doctor, and with age more frequent stays in the hospital. The bill, as well as its justification, was written by life. We have individual stories of thousands of Polish workers described in letters addressed to the state authorities, as well as to trade unions, hoping that there will be someone who will want to help them in this matter. I would like to present to you two of these stories. History of Mr Czesław: I am 62 years old. I started working on September 1, 1974 at the age of 15 as a youth worker. For 3 years of training in car mechanics at the company school, I studied for 3 days a week and worked for 3 days of the week. After the military service, I started working as a car mechanic, and since 1983 - in a diesel engine factory as a driver of an internal combustion engine. It is working in particularly harmful conditions: heavy noise, numerous harmful substances and chemicals derived from the operation of engines. In the past, I had the right to an allowance for work under harmful conditions, an allowance for service for years, an anniversary award, even regenerative meals and milk until the plant was privatized. All the benefits were taken from me and today, even though I work in even more harmful conditions, I have nothing but an hour's pay. During 47 years of work, I only received the anniversary award once for 25 years of work. I was convinced that after I was 60 years old, I would be able to retire at a reduced age due to harmful working conditions, but again I was disappointed. It turned out that the last vintage that could go to this kind of retirement was the one who was born in 1958. Again, I lacked happiness or rather this is the fair social system in this country. When I'm told that despite 47 years of hard work I can't retire internship, and I'm required to work for 50 years, I wonder if I'm still living in Europe or in some third-world country. What an example is given by the state to the young generation, how it wants to encourage them to work diligently, since there is no respect and gratitude for this generation, which has worked, worked and probably will continue to work honestly and from the youngest years. Like slaves to death? And a second example, the example of Catherine: In 1983, at the age of 15, I started to study in a professional school with a profile: commercial ceramics. I spent three days studying at school, working in the production department for three days, working under special conditions. My working conditions haven't changed in 38 years. High temperature, manual mold casting, manual transfer of ceramic castings, lifting and handling of heavy boards with castings. From 1986 to today I have done the same kind of work. In 1999, we were deprived of the category: special working conditions. If it weren't for that, at the age of 55, after 40 years of work, I could retire at a reduced retirement age. Today I have neither the right to early retirement nor the right to a bridge pension. Both me and the other ladies working at my work at this hard, monotonous job complain about traffic problems. Back problems, sciatica, hip surgery, carpal tunnel problems for women at 50 years of age doing manual work are in our establishment on the agenda. The Social Security Office refuses us the right to an invalidity pension. I'm a wreck. I'm working, I'm tired. I work under constant pain, on painkillers, because I have to live with something. The salary I get, it doesn't satisfy me or compensate me for my suffering. Welcome to our establishment. From the perspective of a desk in Warsaw, no one is able to assess what our work and our life are like. I will now move on to the statement of reasons for the bill. The bill provides for the introduction into the Polish pension system, both common and agricultural, of a pension granted exclusively from the titles of the insurance period reached, hereinafter referred to as: internship pension. This solution is in line with the social expectations of people who, due to the loss of strength as a consequence of a long period of employment, are unable to continue to do so until the retirement age is reached. The introduction of this solution was announced by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda during the presidential campaign in 2020. For many years, trade unions have been called upon to introduce service pensions, and the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) introduced this post into the programme agreement concluded with President Andrzej Duda during the last presidential campaign. Introduced on 1 January 1999 the pension scheme, so-called the defined contribution scheme makes the right to a pension conditional on the insured person fulfilling only one condition, i.e. from his retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men. The insurance internship in this scheme does not have the advantage of acquiring the right to benefit. As a result, any person who has been subject to pension insurance for at least the shortest period of time will be entitled to a pension once that age has been reached. However, the length of the contribution period affects the amount of the pension and also the coverage of the insured person with a guarantee of a benefit of not less than the amount of the lowest pension. Such a guarantee shall be granted only to insured persons who are entitled to a premium and non-contributory period of at least 20 years for women and at least 25 years for men. The theory of social policy has long been a positive assessment of the use by pension systems of an insurance internship. The insurance period serves as a measure in order to assess the contribution of the insured person to the creation of the Social Insurance Fund. It also makes it possible to conclude that income lost as a result of a specific random event, in this case as a result of reaching the retirement age, achieved by the insured person is normal, permanent and basic, rather than transitional and additional, and allows to eliminate from the circle of eligible persons whose membership of the risk community was incidental. Inclusion of an insurance internship in the arrangements for the acquisition of the right to a pension is an expression of consideration of the elements relating to the service. The pension system should be based on the assumption that, after many years of work, a person has the right to stop working and spend the rest of his life without a job, even if he still retains his ability to earn. Concerns related to disservice are confirmed by statistical data on the structure of pensions paid by the Social Security Office under the new pension scheme. Over the last 10 years, the number of pensions awarded and paid has increased avalanchely in our country below the lowest pension amount. In 2011, the number of such pensions was less than 24 000 and the share of such pensions in the total number of pensions granted and paid from the new scheme was around 4%. In 2020, the number of such pensions was or is already 310 000 and their share of the total number of benefits granted and paid has increased to almost 10%. This means an almost thirteenfold increase in the number of such benefits over the last 10 years. In the applicant's view, these figures clearly indicate that the only economic incentives used so far in the new pension scheme for regular payment of pension contributions, which are included in the formula for determining the amount of the pension, are insufficient. The insured either fail to see the benefits of systematically paying high contributions, or view them as a distant and uncertain prospect. As a result, new additional incentives are needed and this could be the role that the so-called pension scheme could play. an internship pension which would be entitled to insured persons who have reached a sufficiently long period of insurance even before the retirement age is reached. The possibility of retirement would be a kind of reward for insured people who started working at a young age and then regularly paid their pension contributions for many years. It would also be an expression of appreciation by the State of insured persons legitimizing a long period of insurance. Retirement would be an entitlement, not an obligation of the insured person. He could, without applying for such a pension, without any restriction, continue to work after reaching the period of insurance entitled to an internship pension. However, the consequence of a long and interrupted period of employment is in many cases the loss of strength preventing it from continuing until the retirement age - and in these cases the insured could terminate the work and enjoy a well deserved pension. The project proposes that in the general pension scheme, internship pensions should be granted to persons born after 31 December 1948, i.e. covered by the new pension scheme, i.e. a defined contribution scheme which has reached a premium and non-contributory period of 35 years for women and 40 years for men. Acquisition of the right to such a pension would depend on its amount. An internship pension would be granted provided that it is fixed using the so-called "internship pension'. the formula of the defined contribution would not be lower than the amount of the lowest pension benefit. As the amount of the pension calculated under this formula depends primarily on factors such as the value of the pension contributions paid during the period of employment, as well as the average life expectancy of persons aged from retirement age, the right to an internship pension would be granted to insured persons who are entitled to a long-term contribution and non-contributory period, provided that they are paid contributions to the pension scheme on a sufficiently high basis. In the agricultural system, this project also provides for the right of farmers to be covered by the social security scheme for such an internship pension. Thus, in this scheme, the right to this pension would be granted to persons who are entitled to pension insurance of 35 years for women and 40 years for men. Internship pension (the bell) could also not be lower than the lowest pension benefit. Maybe just because I'm running out of time, as I understand it... Yes. Two words about the financial consequences. In the justification for this project, you have made estimates of the financial costs of this project. They have been prepared on the basis of available data on the financial implications of introducing an internship pension for persons who have reached a premium and non-contributory period of 35 years for women and 40 years for men. But these estimates do not take into account this limitation I mentioned, i.e. restricting the scope of this right to internship pension to persons who have earned a pension in the amount of the lowest pension. These effects have been calculated in two options, i.e. in the option in which only half of the eligible persons would benefit from such benefits and in the option in which all eligible persons would benefit from this arrangement. In the first option, i.e. 50% of those willing in the first year of the proposed law, expenditure on benefits would increase by about PLN 4 billion and in the following years by 7 billion, 6.5 billion and about 6 billion. The proceeds from the contributions... Mr. Chairman, you need to leave now. I'm almost done. The impact of contributions would be reduced by 2 billion, 3.6 billion, 3.7 billion and 3.6 billion respectively in the 5th year of the new regulation. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I ask all parliamentary clubs to support the citizens' bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and introducing an internship pension into the Polish social security system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u340	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee for presenting the draft. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Janusz Śniadek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the United Right to present a position on the citizens' bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and amending certain laws, print No 1692. I admit that today I am standing here with an extremely heavy heart, because I would like to declare that there is a clear position of the United Right, in line with Mr Zielenecki's appeal on behalf of the committee calling for support of this law. Unfortunately, there is still no such position, but I am left to clarify certain opinions or doubts that are being discussed at the moment. The history of the application for an internship pension - mentioned this by Mr Marcin Zielenecki - as a priority for Solidarity reaches the turn of the first and second decades of this century. In 2008, when we fought for bridge pensions, the loser for many months, for the first time began to appear, already as a general union, the postulate for internship pensions. He kept going, but this was all happening at the time of the withdrawal of the postulate or bridge pension rights against the 2011 electoral declarations. In 2012, the retirement age increased by 2 years for men, 7 years for women, 12 years for example. for women in the KRUS. This resulted, among other things. the exit from the Tripartite Commission, transformed into a subsequent Social Dialogue Council. I have to say that it has been a great satisfaction for me to keep to the agreement between.Solidarity and the President concerning the withdrawal of the increase in the retirement age, which took place in 2017. Also with regard to social policy, the Law and Justice have done a lot of work, among others. examples of the annual payment of the 13th pension from 2020 or the increase in the lowest pension from 2015 to today, reaching more than 40%, can be cited. The proposed project assumes that, in accordance with the added insurance born after 31 December 1948, a pension will be granted if the contribution and non-contributory period is at least 35 years for women and 40 for men, and that the pension from the Social Insurance Fund referred to in Article. 26, including a periodic capital pension, or a pension from the fund referred to in Article. 26 shall be at least equal to the amount of the lowest pension referred to in Article. 85 laws. However, I will admit that it is a bit problematic to make the right to a pension dependent on the amount of the benefit resulting from the accumulated capital. I look at the time, and I just wanted to make a little more reference to the costs that Mr Marcin Zielenecki mentioned at the end. Indeed, I have in the calculation also prepared by the ZUS completely similar amounts, they are not small. In any event, I will just conclude with a summary that the estimated total financial impact is calculated over a period of 10 years from the entry into force of the proposed amendments to the amounts discounted by inflation for 2020 at fixed prices of this year. As regards the increase in expenditure on pensions from the FUS in the years 2022 to 2031, this scenario with a 100% exercise of the right to this right will amount to PLN 70.9 billion, a 50 percent scenario - PLN 35.5 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In turn, the reduction in the income from retirement of these people - 100 percent scenario - that is 50,2 billion PLN... Thank you. ...scenario 50% - PLN 24.9 billion. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo, I move that this project be directed to further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joann Frydrych, on behalf of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u343	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents its position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and amending certain laws. The citizens' bill assumes the introduction of pensions to which the right depends on the internship of the insured person's work regardless of his age. The proven contribution and non-contributory period would be 35 years for women and 40 years for men. In addition, for such a benefit to be granted, the amount of the benefit must be at least at the level of the lowest pension. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The pension scheme aims to ensure the social security of citizens. The solutions in Poland make the granting of pension rights conditional on the achievement of the retirement age. The rules for determining the amount of the pension benefit are based on the model of the defined contribution. The more he transferred to the system in the form of contributions, the more he will receive from the system as a provider. This model assumes elementary justice. It is clear who and when will receive the pension and how high it will be. This system should be assessed as modern and responding to demographic challenges. Each insured person should assess what benefit he will receive and what he should do to multiply it. However, one must be aware that year by year the scale of pension poverty in Poland is growing. At the end of December 2015, 76 thousand. Retirement pensions were lower than minimum. The policy of the PiS government has increased the number of such pensioners to 310 000 by the end of 2020. At this point, attention should be paid to the increase in the number of socially excluded people. The report on poverty published by the Noble Pack in 2021 clearly shows that it affects 2 million Poles. So many today live below the limit of extreme poverty, which is a permanent threat to physical and mental health. We're talking about life at this point for less than 20 zlotys a day. In the last year, the number of such people increased by 400 thousand. The piss promised a lot. One of the promises was, for example. increase in pensions. You lied, and all you did was cost money, inflation, and horrendous deaths. If Poles and Poles benefit from pensions introduced by this law, many of them will be sentenced to low benefits. The ZUS website provides an average pension for a retired man aged 65 years and amounts to PLN 3184.20. If this man benefits from an internship pension, he will receive a pension of PLN 2564.61, i.e. by PLN 619.59 a month lower. On the other hand, the average pension for a woman who retires at the age of 60 is PLN 2127.81. If the same woman benefits from an internship pension, she will receive a benefit of PLN 1743,18 or PLN 384,63 a month lower. These are my explanatory calculations. If we analyze the exact data, these differences may be greater. Therefore, introducing a new component into the pension system, it is necessary to introduce elements of the formation of insurance awareness in the society, so that the insured person consciously makes his choice of resignation and has full knowledge of the amount of the benefit granted, so that it is his choice and not to push him out of the labour market. It is the responsibility and responsibility of the government. The development of insurance awareness among Poles will express concern about the amount of future benefits and increase the interest of registered workers, reduce the size of employment in the grey economy, which will contribute to raising more pension capital and avoid increasing pension poverty. Moreover, the government must conduct demographic policies and migration policies responsibly so as not to disturb the labour market. These are also very important areas that shine red, because the current government in these areas is also doing nothing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the fact that this is a civic project and there is a great expectation (the bell) regarding the introduction of internship pensions, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is requesting that this project be directed to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u344	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u345	High Izbo! Internship pensions are primarily a fair solution. A person who works for 35, 40 years who pays contributions and pays taxes honestly over the years should be able to retire, regardless of whether he is 55 or 65 years old after 40 years of work. That is why the Left, of course, supports this project. We want to be clear that this is still too little. We need as a society from you, from Members and Members of the governing party, as well as from Members and Members of the opposition, to think about how to guarantee us all a decent life at European level, not to think about how to pay the least out here, how to save on citizens, on pensioners, on patients. Unfortunately, such a look, I have the impression, dominates this room for years. With this attitude, the Left will never agree. Combining how not to pay due benefits, how to minimize costs, is clearly seen on the example of internship pensions. For over a decade, trade unions have been fighting for pensions for those with the longest service. PiS and his presidential candidate promised them in subsequent campaigns. Prime Minister Morawiecki was meeting with the unionists. Once again, the government kept this idea quiet. Today we are investigating not the promised government project. Nor are we looking at the opposition projects you have frozen, including the Left project on internship pensions, which we have put together with OPZZ, and other solutions that would give Poles a chance to secure their pensions at European level. We're investigating a civil project today not because you wanted to, but because you need to hear it. Citizens demand it. The project, like no other, enjoys the support of the overwhelming majority of society. That's 700,000. signatures collected under it. We know from experience that you have promised citizens and unions internship pensions, but you have no desire to introduce them. After today's debate, we will find out whether you will continue to lie cynically in the open, whether you will continue to investigate it, or whether you will put it back in the freezer contrary to your own assurances. In the meantime, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members on both sides of the room to the fact that the mere introduction of internship pensions without guaranteeing their decent level will once again exclude the hardest workers who often receive low wages from this solution. Already last year, together with OPZZ, we tabled a bill introducing internship pensions, which ties them to a minimum pension, PLN 1600, and a pension of PLN 1200. He's been in the seym freezer for a year now. We also believe that internship should include years worked on garbage contracts, which promoted subsequent governments after 1989. The state - even though you are so proud of your prosocial approach - you have done absolutely nothing to correct those errors. That idea we reported is also in the freezer. Only then will those who have actually worked out a long period of experience to move to an early but fully deserved pension be able to benefit from it. Without these elements, internship pensions will remain an empty promise to most citizens. On the left, we do not agree that power is cynically conning its own citizens, so we will make appropriate amendments to this proposal. In Poland, we need a pension system that will provide decent pensions at a level that is adequate to the cost of living. We need them to encourage legal employment and thus pay taxes. We also need decent pensions to keep the economy on the market, because by 2035 already 27% of Poles will be taking pensions. Hunger benefits that most pensioners will not qualify for are a recipe for economic collapse. We know that solutions guaranteeing good pensions for Poles and Poles, good education, good health protection, life at European level are possible, are cost-effective and feasible - today, here in Poland. This is demonstrated by the success of similar solutions in other European countries, expert opinions and mathematics, because we have calculated all of this. The only thing that is lacking today - in the case of internship pensions you can see very precisely - is the will to introduce these solutions in order to deliver on promises and deliver on their commitments to society. We on the left of this will are not lacking, and that is why we support the citizens' project introducing internship pensions. We encourage you to support our amendments if you give us a chance to submit them, guaranteeing the amount and availability of these pensions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u346	Thank you, Member. Mrs Bożena Ironowska on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u347	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I will present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and amending certain laws from print no. 1692. The project concerns the introduction into the Polish legal system of a pension granted solely for the period of insurance achieved, i.e. internship pensions for persons born after 31 December 1948, i.e. persons covered by the new pension scheme who have reached a contribution and non-contributory period of 35 years for women and 40 years for men. Decent retirement is the inalienable right of every hardworking man, and this law meets the expectations of workers and responds to their voices. 35 years of contributions paid by women and 40 years by men is sufficient time to raise funds for at least a minimum pension and only to be paid by the state budget in the event of failure to achieve it. It is important to appreciate those who pay their contributions and work hard, often physically, from an early age, and give them the right to choose whether to continue working or to exercise their right to retirement. Internship is a choice, not a necessity, which is why anyone who feels able to continue to work will have the opportunity, which - as the situation on the labour market shows - is a good solution for pensioners, but also for employers who do not lose experienced workers. This law, which is extremely important, does not discriminate against farmers who also have the chance to benefit from an internship pension, because it is they who, remember, have worked hard since the youngest years and unfortunately have the lowest pensions, according to statistics. The proposed solution is also of an important educational nature when it comes to people just entering the labour market. It shows that capital for future retirement should be built from the very beginning of work. I would like to remind you that the club of the Polish People's Party together with the Polish Trade Union Agreement already on 23 January 2020 submitted a draft law on internship pensions covering precisely these issues, namely age and internship. Unfortunately, this project, ladies and gentlemen, is in the freezer it's still in today. If it came into force last year, future pensioners could benefit from it all year round. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party supports the draft law and directs it to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u348	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak on behalf of the Confederate circle. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u349	I am terrified to hear this debate and this flood of demagogy from you. This shows that you're probably all completely detached from reality here. The Polish pension system is based entirely on the assumption that it is a payback system, i.e. based on contributions paid on an ongoing basis. 30 years ago, in the early 1990s, the Union of Real Policy said it would end badly. We have called for the creation of a pension fund from privatised state assets, from privatisation revenues. You did not do this - one, the other, the third, all of us - and we are in the situation we are in. There's a demographic tsunami coming. In 2060 the number of pensioners could be around 12 million. The working base is shrinking, the retirement base is growing, the retirement age is becoming the most numerous yearbooks. And you're talking about magnification here. There's a big giant hole in the middle of our budget, and you're talking about expanding it. The adoption of such a law is an act on the border of treason simply. One third of all public sector expenditure is already pensions. Of course, this applies to the largest part of the PiS electorate at the same time. PiS is the only party whose majority of electorate are people who do not work. And that's, among other things. it's the result. If we add up pension expenditure, they will be equal to total internal security expenditure, i.e. police, courts, prisons, etc., external security, i.e. the army, health protection and all education, including higher education. This is the size of this disaster, and we're talking about an even greater fragmentation of this system. If Mr Czesław and Mrs Jadwiga mentioned in the statement - I do not remember her name - will now retire early, then someone else will have to come to their place of work. But this someone, apart from the fact that he will have to keep his job and pay for all the current state expenses, will still have to keep Mr Czesław and Mrs Jadwiga. That's what you want to do. With an average life expectancy of 82 years, if a woman goes to work at the age of 18 and retires after 35 years of work, she will be 29 years old on average. In 35 years' work, he gets 29 years of retirement. What are you doing? What are you guys even discussing? At the moment, the transfers that PiS is trying to handle its electoral niche are about PLN 50 billion per year - 13th pension, 14th pension, benefits from the Polish Deal, which will, of course, be the most visible for this group. Lowering the retirement age, sorry, increase already costs us (the bell) at the moment about PLN 50 billion per year. 70 billion PLN in 10 years is supposed to cost this idea. Is it a coincidence that when we were investigating the bill earlier, we were talking in a debate that had just ended, about this... Thank you. ...that 70 billion PLN from the transport sector the government wants to squeeze out... Thank you, sir. ...in the next 10 years. Is that a coincidence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u351	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Applicant's Representatives! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the citizens' bill amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and amending certain laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The pension system is in such a state that it requires discussion over divisions, taking into account the needs of today, but also the needs of subsequent generations. Of course, this bill can be a voice in the discussion. The aim of the project is to introduce the so-called. internship pensions. This is a solution that allows workers with a specific traineeship to retire before reaching their statutory retirement age. Applicants propose that women should retire after 35 years of work and men after 40 years of work. The pension would be determined on a similar basis to the rules applied in the current system. Applicants estimate that the minimum costs of this law will be PLN 6 billion in the first year, and in the next year it will be approx. PLN 11 billion, with the Social Insurance Institution pointing out that the combined costs of increased pensions and reduced income may in the next 10 years range from PLN 60.5 billion to PLN 121 billion. This is a very high cost, given that already in 2015 according to the CSO, this hidden pension debt amounted to almost PLN 4960 billion. This is a powerful cost that is imposed on the shoulders of our children and grandchildren, because one day this money will have to be paid out. Despite this very high cost of this law today, the result can unfortunately be very low pensions. The applicants themselves indicate that the number of low pensions has increased avalanchely over the last 10 years, which is likely also linked to the possibility of early retirement. Granted, applicants provide for a security mechanism, but for women it will usually be either minimal or close to minimum height. And this is a very important alert. In addition, the Government of Law and Justice wants to deprive members of open pension funds 15% raised capital, i.e. again this means reducing pensions. Today, of course, we need a very broad discussion about professional activation of as many Poles as possible. We have a feeling there's no proposal here. You can benefit from those included in the economic programme of Poland 2050, connected with the allocation of the 8% pension contribution to pension contributions or the payment of all pensions lost, 13 pensions to people who decide to retire later, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, citizens today expect higher pensions and stable conditions in the pension system. And in this respect I declare that Poland 2050 will always work on those solutions that guarantee that such needs will be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Circle15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a citizens' legislative initiative on the Law amending the Law of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and on the amendment of certain laws signed on 235000. citizens supporting this bill. The main objective of this project is to reach the insurance period for retirement from the general and agricultural pension system. The use of the insurance period as a measure allows to assess the contribution of the insured to the creation of the insurance fund and has a positive social acceptance. The very bad trend towards retirement of people receiving pension benefits lower than the lowest pension benefit indicates that current measures to encourage regular payment of contributions are insufficient. 310,000. people in 2020 received pensions lower than the lowest pension benefit. This is a 13-fold increase compared to 2011. In view of these behaviours of insured persons, new solutions should be sought in order to achieve a long insurance period before the retirement age is reached. Retirement after 35 years for women and 40 years for men of a premium and non-contributory period, before reaching retirement age - will be a reward for insured persons and the state's appreciation for long periods of insurance. Another challenge is not to allow internship pensions to be lower than the lowest pension. An internship pension will be an entitlement and not an obligation of the insured person and can therefore continue to work after reaching the period of insurance entitlement to the internship pension. We must also remember that there are professions or types of work performed by insured people, where psychophysical fitness is essential for safe and effective work. Ladies and gentlemen, not everyone is a non-worker. I'll give you my own example. Working in the 4th Brigade system, on three shifts, in the frost, at heights, 30 m - as a young man for 11 years I could do this job, but at the age of 60 I wouldn't even have anything to do with this job. So you have to consider that there are people who work really hard. Not everyone can finish college and have a competition, work in non-work jobs. There are also some (the bell) who do specific jobs. As near Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy, we consider the project to be very good and we are responsible for continuing to process it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. At the same time, I ask that you do not exceed a certain time, because there are a lot of people who have signed up for questions. You are the first question asked by Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. I can't see. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I wanted to ask, because Mr Law and Justice said that there is no government position, why there is no government position, and when will this position be so that we will know how you are speaking on this initiative. I wanted to ask the applicants if I understood correctly that not everyone would be able to benefit from this entitlement, from an internship pension - if his accumulated contributions would not allow for a minimum pension, then he would not retire, he would have to continue to work. Why did you accept such a solution? Maybe in this case you need to think about another solution. And one more thing. So I counted and counted, sitting in the hall: a person who went to professional school will be able to retire in 2024 and a student, someone (the bell), who studied, e.g. doctor of medicine - only in 2029. I'd ask for an explanation, and that's the government side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u356	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left Club will ask another question. Mr President, I have asked you to stick to your time. We have 29 people.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Dear representatives of the legislative initiative! Minister! Minister, it's a good thing you're representing the government today. I'm sure the seat's changing your point of view. On 22 July 2010, Mr Stanisław Szwed, representing the Law and Justice Club, spoke about bridge pensions at the time of the first reading of this law: I don't suppose it's any big group of people. In response to my interpellation on 1 December this year, the Minister writes that the costs are PLN 7.4 billion in the first year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the above, you also write that there will be a government position. Will that be the position of the government that you passed on in the interpellation? Will there be a change in the position of the Labour Ministry in favour of a favourable government position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u358	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! The situation is clear. After the war, we had a demographic increase when my parents were born. Then, in the '80s, we had a second demographic surplus when I was born. After that, the demographic boom was gone. That means we're a fast-aging society. That means, ladies and gentlemen, it's gonna get worse when it comes to the labour market. This means that with the increasing, constantly increasing, despite the last 2 years, the average life expectancy in Poland will have millions of pensioners. The whole legislative effort, the whole effort of the Polish state must be focused on the fact that people can be active as long as possible and not on sending them away from the labour market for retirement as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a question of the right of the state of Poland at the present time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u360	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u361	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Applicant's Representatives! Firstly, I would like to ask applicants why this pension threshold was set at the minimum pension level. This is a simple path to poverty. Perhaps it is not yet very visible at 57, 58 years of age, but certainly leading to poverty at 70, 80, 90 years of age, and that is the prospect. And the question to the Minister: Is it true what was presented in the opinion of the Social Insurance Institution that the project presented by the social group is contrary to the objectives of the so-called. Polish Order and plans for professional activation, which I think we all agree on here, that this is extremely necessary? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr President of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity)! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who signed the citizens' bill on internship pensions. This shows that we live in a civil state, not as it was in the hands of the Civic Platform and the PSL, when almost 300,000. The unionists were protesting against an increase in the retirement age. There was no room for debate in your governments. Now it's going to be a debate. I welcome the fact that Solidarity contributed to this by submitting a citizens' project, which will allow at the level of the Parliament's committees, at the level of the Polish Parliament for a debate on the place of internship pensions in the Polish pension system. We also have a presidential project. My question is addressed both to applicants, i.e. representatives of the citizens' initiative committee, and to the Minister. Is there a chance to work on these two projects at the same time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Applicants! In the explanatory memorandum to the Act we read that the introduction of this solution was announced by President Andrzej Duda of the Republic of Poland during the presidential campaign in 2020. For many years, trade unions have been called for to introduce service pensions, and NSZZ has introduced this post into the programme agreement concluded with President Andrzej Duda during the last election campaign. This solution is in line with the social expectations of people who, due to the loss of strength as a consequence of a long period of employment, are unable to continue to do so until the retirement age is reached. Yes. I believe that this solution should benefit many people. Let me just remind you that there are much more social expectations, e.g. independent and fast-working courts, [[Applause]] the right to reliable information, to help people affected by banking systems. These people, Mr. President, have been promised support as well. It didn't work out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also read in the justification that depending on the accepted... Thank you very much, sir. ...the pension expenditure will increase greatly. Excuse me, sir. Last sentence, Marshal. Mr President, this is not a club speech. Therefore, I have a question about how reliable these calculations are when they do not take into account the social group, or farmers. There are very many indications that they will receive such a pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u366	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have exceeded your time and abused the form of the speech. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate can be defined as follows: Mr Duda did a bear favor to Mr Duda. [[Voice from the room: Mr. President Duda.]] Mr. President. Mr Duda warned President Duda about this project. This is about the solution which the President promised to all Poles during the election campaign. Mr. President! Two years have passed since the campaign ended. In fact, at that time, was the entire President's Office with a budget of over PLN 200 million a year unable to prepare this project? Did 420 employees at the President's Office have time to prepare or order a bill fulfilling the presidential promises of our country? Maybe we need to revisit it. the President's budget discussed today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, Mr Duda deserves his thanks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u368	The Himalayas of hypocrisy, I'm sorry. [[Jesus, what a rude...]] Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u369	When countries were involved in the implementation of pension systems, there were several, even a dozen employees per worker. People until retirement usually didn't live to see it, and when they lived to see it, they were on it for a few years. At the moment people are living longer and longer, entering the labour market later and later, among others. by the fashion promoted by the State to study at the expense of the taxpayer. The result is that soon, in 2060, 12 million pensioners will be working as well as possible. Already, to keep this system going, we are forced to import labour from abroad, but in this way we are only delaying the disaster and increasing it for the future, because these people, working here, are simply acquiring pension rights. In this way we owe even more pension debt, which we will have to work off people who may not be living in Poland by then, because they will either return to each other or go to the West, and it will be Poles who will have to export pensions abroad. What do you have, one, the other, the third - all to the exit (the bell) from this impasse, not to dredge it up?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u370	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The citizens' bill provides for the introduction into the Polish pension system of both the general and agricultural so-called. internship pensions. The bill proposes that internship pensions should be granted to persons born after 1 December 1948, who have reached the level of internship for women - 35 years old and for men - 40 years old. Minister! I have a question as to whether the Ministry currently has an estimate of the costs of introducing this internship pension and whether the transition to internship will be voluntary for those to whom, say, the health condition does not allow (the bell) to continue to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u373	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I did not notice that the revision of the pension law was accompanied by the necessary amendment of the provisions of the Labour Code on pre-retirement protection, which is currently provided for in Article. 39. What does that mean? In practice, nothing will prevent an employer from firing an employee because of his internship pension to which he has acquired the right. This is where questions and doubts arise. Will an internship pension be a social entitlement or a proper pension? Shouldn't the provisions of the Labour Code clearly indicate that the acquisition of the right to an early retirement pension will be covered by protection rights and shouldn't the termination of the employment contract be prohibited until the relevant retirement age, 60 and 65, respectively? The insured person (the bell) should decide whether or not he will benefit from the entitlement, and the entitlement to an internship pension is not and should not be a prerequisite for termination of the employment relationship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. As part of the legislative process, we received the opinion of the Agricultural Social Insurance Board of 8 December 2021, where the farmers' board notes that the proposed amendments to this draft law will generate additional costs related to the modification of the information systems of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund which were not included in the budget of the cash register. Minister! Is there any alternative to this financial problem, this money? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[That's a very good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u376	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Internship, in my recognition, is a historic fair approach, because it is very often the case that people who do not earn so many years of work live to retirement age and retire, while there are many social groups and many people who work and very often do not live to retirement age. That is why I believe that this law should enter into force. Minister! I have this question: do we have exactly how much society, the workers who are still working, can expect this internship pension. How much is that going to be? Because that's what the most important thing for them to hear is this amount. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u378	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law excludes a large group of people, and that is why historical justice, history, is probably impossible to talk about. The applicant was talking about Mrs. Jadwig, who started work at the age of 15, and for her it would be a blessing. And I'm gonna talk about Mrs. Jadwig, who could've started working at 43 because she had to raise three kids because if she had four, she'd already have a mom plus some extra, and she had three, and she had a sick mom who didn't want to give her to a nursing home, she took care of her. When she raised the children, and mom died, she could go to work and she was 43. And now a 35-year-old contribution period makes her probably a 78-year-old person for whom it doesn't matter or make sense of an internship pension. So I ask, are these situations - not special, but life, Polish, normal (The Bell) - also included in this or another project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The pain of every government is the amount of money that comes into the Social Insurance Fund, which is why for decades we've been working like horses uphill, like getting that money, and manipulating how much money we pay for pensioners and pensioners. And that's why Donald Tusk took several dozen billion zlotys from commercial pension funds, which is why PiS finished this work. Every government is worried about how much they're paying for the fund. The Social Insurance Fund is affected by the labour market, how many people work, how they are covered, how much they earn. This is the first source of this fund. And this is where we should try to make it as rich as possible. And secondly, of course, it's about what unemployment is like. Today we have very good conditions, because unemployment is low, Poles earn more and more. So when are we supposed to introduce a systemic solution that we're introducing a second criterion for getting pensions? That's exactly what we need to do right now. The state's gonna add to the fund anyway. The question is, how much? But if we're a richer country and we're richer, we can handle it. You have to give people a chance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u382	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice - with apologies for missing you. I don't know. I missed it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Members of the opposition claim that this project is unfair. I don't blame you, because you did justice to Poles in 2011, increasing the retirement age for men by 2 years, and for women by 7 years, to 67 years of age. Minister! At that time, as a pharmacy student in Poznań, I conducted a collection of signatures carried out by the union of.Solidarity. Today I signed up for your project as well. [[Did you graduate from college?]] I wanted to ask, Mr President, not how many Poles can benefit from the provisions of this law, but whether you have de facto estimates, how many actually Polish workers, how many people work, because, as the applicant said, this is a draft law written by life, the life of people working, people working hard (Dawn), how many Poles will actually benefit from this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u384	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. And Mr Nitras thinks that if he has a mask, you can't hear your biting remarks from the benches all the time. [[I don't think you can hear me if I don't say anything.]] But you are saying something all the time, sir. I ask you, sir, to listen calmly to the deliberations, not to constantly groan. [[I heard a bit of attention from you...]] Mr President, I draw your attention. [[If you don't comment on what the Members have said, then...]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... [[You missed me.]] I have other longings, really, not like this. [[I doubt it.]] Can I wait till you're done? Please, my fellow Member, I will add time. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! None of the previous speakers from the Civic Coalition said this project was unfair. Everyone says he's absolutely worth working on the committee. Such solutions operate in different Western countries, but of course the devil is in the details, so we need to think deeply about specific records, because in addition to giving people the opportunity to switch to benefits after working on a particular traineeship, we also need to create a system of incentives to stay on the market for those who want to stay on it. In 2017, information on proposals prepared by the government was provided. This was, among others, the case. Retirement voucher, 10,000. PLN for additional (Bingle) 2 years stay on the labour market. At the time Prime Minister Szydło said it was one of the options discussed. What options have been discussed? 'Cause we didn't see one with him. The government has done nothing to support the pension system. And it's worth... Thank you, Member. I've added time. But, Your Marshal... But I added time. Mrs. Daria Gosek-Poppiek, the Left Club. You've been exchanging opinions, so I'd like to finish. Member, please don't abuse it. It's worth thinking about not just the right right right to choose when talking about internship pensions... [[Voice from the courtroom: Time, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. ...but also about giving people concrete benefits... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u386	No, no, but let's not abuse it. I'm sorry. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Membership! Mr Śniadek, reporting on the position of the United Right Club, said that actually the club has no opinion. Honestly, I can't think of how you don't think about a civic project that improves the situation of people who have worked really hard their whole lives and should be able to benefit from this work. As I understand it, it also explains a little why. The Left project providing minimum pension to those who have worked for years on contracts-orders, trash cans and old age will receive several hundred golden pensions, also in the seym freezer. That's because you don't think people should get paid for old age. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u388	Thank you very much. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. Enjoy the evening.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u389	Thank you very much. There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone would like to have social security in the fall of their lives. This can only guarantee a decent retirement, which will both allow seniors to pay all financial commitments and will at least allow for minor pleasures. Therefore, my questions. Why the idea of a limit of 35 years for women and 40 years for men? Do you have any analyses, studies to justify this division due to work placements that differ for 5 years in the case of men and women? What is the difference? Do the representatives of the legislative initiative have any idea whether you have any such preliminary simulations as to what this internship pension will be? Do you also have knowledge, any simulations, how many people will benefit from this pension? Because we suspect that this will be a very low amount of PLN 1250 (The Bell) which will drive seniors into poverty. People will be in financial trouble, and they may regret their decisions. They'll be covered with your promises of high pensions, and then they'll want to go back to their jobs, and this job will be taken because someone will take their place. So, what do you anticipate for those people who are, unfortunately, going to be fooled by the promise of big money on your part, and life is going to be brutal and these pensions are going to be very low? Do you foresee any social benefits for those who will have these internship pensions? Thank you very much, Member. And finally, my question. What will be the funding of an internship pension if it turns out that the government will fulfil your obligations and implement internship pensions at the end of 2022? Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Marshal, for extending your time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u390	Mrs Marta Wcisło will now speak. Miss, I've extended my time by 50 seconds, and to be honest, I've already received critical remarks, so I'm gonna have to get to work smarter. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! It's a pretty good citizen's pension project. However, it has two aspects, positive and maybe less positive. This positive is a choice after working 35 years by women and 40 by men. As a matter of fact, everyone should have the right to choose whether to remain in the labour market or to benefit from a pension. The other side, however, is the fact that almost 400 000 can disappear from the labour market. people, extremely valuable to the labour market. That's why I'm asking you what the government's analysis is about. Why doesn't the government have a position? Is it because it's a civic project? I would also like to know the position of Law and Justice, because you have announced that you are a pro-social party (the bell), and in the case of such an important project you have no position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u392	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft internship law allows Poles to choose the date of retirement after working 35 years by women and 40 years by men. Many men and women work for a long time. Some since they were 15 years old, especially when they started in vocational schools, they worked in parallel with their studies. It is very important, however, that they have a clear and precise message before choosing which pension they will receive: whether it is a pension that allows them to function normally or whether it is a retirement pension. I'm gonna ask about a group of people who work in crafts who work for a very long time. They paid and paid low contributions, but I believe that (the bell) this case must be dealt with in particular. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u395	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Applicants! Poverty, poverty of the elderly is an increasing problem in Poland. Women's poverty is a growing problem. Women retire early, these pensions are smaller, and women live longer. The question to you is this - because it is right that everyone should be able to choose in every area of life - how do you intend to combat the poverty of women, to prevent them from being pushed out of the labour market by proposing such solutions. I would also like to ask the Ministry if you have any calculations on how the proposed retirement will make women's poverty grow. What are programs to prevent Poles from being poor and not hungry? The proposed solutions do not see this problem (the bell), which affects thousands of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. If Mr Szczerby is not here, then Mr Dariusz Joński is with us. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[For two.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u397	Does that mean I have two minutes? Oh, we're not getting smart today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants because I have a programming agreement with the then presidential candidate Andrzej Duda. It is not too long, but there is a commitment here concerning among others. just internship pensions. It's been five years, nothing happened. Before the next campaign, Mr Duda once again signed an agreement with you, promising that there will be internship pensions. A moment later, he gave an interview and said that this request was very difficult to meet from the point of view of the social security system. Now that you're here with the project, it's been seven years since Andrzej Duda was president, and it's only today that he's making a bill. I have a question for you applicants because someone's cheating here, someone's cheating here. Why Law and Justice can only present such projects at press conferences before or during the campaign (the bell) and when a project on internship pensions needs to be supported, a Member comes out on behalf of the PiS and says that he does not have an opinion on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u398	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. There isn't. I invite Mr Sławomir Nitras, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u399	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I know why the PiS club doesn't stand up for this, why the government doesn't stand up for it. Because they just don't have the money anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to speak out of this speaker about those who work. Today I read a report on the availability of apartments for working people, young people who don't have their own apartment. Half of them don't have a chance to live in their own apartment, never, and you are proposing a law that imposes tens of billions of liabilities, no one knows if 20 or 50, which reduces the number of people working and imposes obligations on people working. You just don't have the money for it. This lunar economy ended in 1980, among others. the creation of.Solidarity. At that time, solidarity arose because the state went bankrupt. Today, it is not the solidarity of the Wałęsa, but it is today the solidarity of the branch and spends money that is not there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is going to end in exactly the same economic disaster, because people won't be able to maintain this supposedly social system of yours. You will end up exactly like Poland in 1989, which went bankrupt because people will not be able to earn this system. You're suggesting that 50-year-olds retire - some, because you make other people work long. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u400	Thank you very much, sir, thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the call for long-term workers to retire before retirement is very high in social support. The advantage of the contested law is also the fact that a possible decision to retire would remain the responsibility of the interested parties themselves and that, in the absence of satisfaction with the amount of the benefit, such a person could decide to continue to work. By listening to the arguments of both parties on the objectives of this law, I ask applicants to answer the question whether the so-called. Internship pension will not reduce the overall level of pensions and reduce the labour supply of people of pre-retirement age, which would meet (the bell) the condition of internship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u402	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u403	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Dear Minister, you said that the president promised internship pensions and that an agreement was signed with the Solidarity Agreement. Today President Andrzej Duda submitted a project on internship pensions, but it is definitely different from that of citizens. The condition for granting a pension according to the presidential project is 39 years of working for a woman and 44 years of working for a man. And it's just a premium period. Until recently, you were Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Policy and Family Affairs. Many times, even together, we participated in conferences of the Polish Social Insurance Association. You were a member of the board. You are a specialist in social policy, above all in the social security system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question: Which bill do you think will be better for the insured: the citizens we are now investigating or the president? Why didn't you show the government's initiative on internship pensions when you were in government? Didn't the PiS want internship pensions at the time, since today there are no opinions about the case and the position? Question to the government: Will you give a positive opinion on the citizens' bill, or will you support the presidential project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project may be a good project, but at least two conditions must be met. Firstly, continuous building of pension awareness, and secondly, incentives. I'm talking about constantly building awareness, so that people know exactly - if they retire early - what they will later retire. It's supposed to be a permanent learning process. We have quite a bit of a backlog in this area. Second element, ladies and gentlemen. They're supposed to be all kinds of encouragement. Even if people reach 35 years of work - for women and 40 years of work - for men, it is necessary to create incentives for people to remain in the labour market. 'Cause the attitude of people who work for people who don't work is gonna get worse. I'm talking about this on purpose because some data can't be falsified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2015, when we finished governments, pension poverty was 76,000. persons, in 2020,31 000. persons. In recent years - I am talking about general poverty - this number has increased by 400 people. We can't let that happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I remember the late '80s, 1989, when I was a primary school student, eighth grade. Then a delegation came to us from the mine from Jastrzębie - now Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa - and encouraged us to become miners. Some of my colleagues have been tempted. Some of my colleagues since they were 15 were car mechanics, my friends were hairdressers, waitresses. They're approaching 50 today. I must say that they expect the solution that the citizens' initiative group is proposing today. I have a question for the president and the minister. To the President: Does he have faith that there will be a majority in this Seym who will support these good solutions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] To the Minister: Will Law and Justice support an internship pension? Hundreds of thousands of Poles are waiting for her today. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u408	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, all these questions will be answered by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, and to whom he will not answer today, he will probably send written answers at a later date. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! Mr President, together with the entire Legislative Initiative Committee, High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank all our fellow countrymen who signed the project very warmly. That's almost $240,000. citizens who have expressed their views. We have experience from previous years that as regards the pension system or the question of a referendum restoring the retirement age, the collected signatures were over a million. So that's, I think, a valuable initiative. There isn't a government position yet. It is being developed in our ministry, but in general we want to discuss it because it is important. I think this is the moment for us to discuss the pension system at all, because it requires longer analysis, longer work. Mr Tomaszewski asked me about bridge pensions. Of course, this is completely different from internship pensions, so that when it comes to bridge pensions... [[No, not the internship...]] ...if there were no amendments to the law on bridge pensions in 2009 introduced by the Civic Platform and PSL coalition, today we would have a lot less problems than that mentioned by Minister Marcin Zielenecki, because these people... [[It was a citizen's...]] ...which were mentioned here in these examples would benefit from previous solutions which concerned work under specific or specific conditions. The amendment of the law, the introduction of bridge pensions significantly reduced the possibility of transition. It was 2009. In 2012, the same coalition increased the retirement age and rejected the request for a referendum. We didn't ask either, because there was no chance, you didn't give her the opportunity to ask the citizens what the pension system should look like in Poland. I think there is a moment today on the basis of this project to consider whether, as far as the system, which has been functioning in Poland since 1998, is so-called. the defined contribution, which means the more we postpone, the longer we work, the higher the benefit, whether the internship component is needed for this. And in this project, it's shown. There was often a question of penny pensions in this discussion. This is the aftermath of 1998 and the introduction of a defined contribution. You work short, you don't have an internship, and that's why you have your pension calculated. That's where the pennies come from. There are more of them because there are more people who acquire pension rights. There were a dozen thousand from here, and now there are several hundred thousand of them. Surely this solution, which was proposed in a citizens' project, would solve this issue, because we say that it acquires the right to an internship pension of a person who has a minimum pension. Then we would certainly solve this issue in some way, the issue that we are discussing, whether to introduce a retirement pension with a penny pension that would entitle us to receive benefits. This is one of those solutions that is worth leaning over on this occasion. So we have a defined premium, but there's this internship component or we're restoring it. Now, there's a question, because there have been questions about the presidential project already here. The President has actually proposed a slightly different level of internship, but they concern premium and non-contributory periods. There are different solutions, e.g. In Germany, retirement is 45 years old, the same for a woman and for a man, you can leave after 45 years. Today we say in this project: 30 years and 40 years old, the President says 35 years and 40 years old, the President says 39 years and 44 years old. This is a matter, I think, for discussion. As a result of the presidential project, I think that together, together, it will be considered. But the main decision is whether or not we're introducing an internship element into this system. I think this is the first issue worth considering on this occasion. The second point concerns a fundamental issue. This has shown the most important issue of restoring the retirement age, i.e. the employee decides whether or not he wants to retire. This is his decision, we don't impose it on him in advance, we don't push him out, although there are certainly cases where employers push workers into retirement. But an employee should make the decision. In the case of internship pensions, there is also a similar situation, so we cannot assume that 100%, everyone will want to go straight to internship pensions, because this decision will be taken by a person who decides to retire internship, as is the general pension system. And it also shows today's research, today's data, which I also have here, the calculations from the Social Insurance Institution, that we are increasing the number of people who, when they retire, take further work. She's around 800,000 at the moment. people who take up work. And this rate is higher every year, which means someone's retiring, but they're taking a job. The solution that we adopted this year in Polish Łada, so-called. The zero tax for seniors also has this purpose, i.e. the person who acquired the pension rights, but who does not retire, will be exempt from the tax from the new year. So it's another solution that gives a decision to a person who has the option to retire, but doesn't benefit from it because it's her choice, and she won't pay the tax. I think that's the solution, too. Of course, there were different questions here. I can only give an example of the lowest pension, which increased by more than 40% between 2016 and 2021 because it was at the level of 890 PLN, and today it is at the level of 1250.88 PLN. There's an increase in the minimum pension. This also shows that we wanted the lowest benefits to increase, as well as, of course, the value of the quota-percent. The 13th and 14th pensions mentioned here today are also those that improve the pension situation. As far as costs are concerned, because this has repeatedly pierced this discussion, of course we are prepared, just as Minister Marcin Zielenecki has already presented here, for sort of two groups, or 100%. people benefit from these solutions and at 50%. These costs are spread out at a level similar to what was presented here. We also have data from the Social Insurance Institution, which means if we estimate these costs, they're at 50%. would be at PLN 3.5 billion and at 100% - at the level of PLN 7 billion. Of course, we do not have planned budget resources for 2022 at the moment, but these issues can already be resolved for 2023. There was also a question about KRUS pensions. From these estimates, which we have, because this is not estimated in the civic project, it appears that this advantage, as far as agricultural pensions are concerned, would be in the order of about 900 million PLN. So there's also the matter of counting. But as I said, today it is not possible to determine precisely what group it is and what individual benefit it will be, because this is due to an individual calculation for a person who is retiring. As it is also in the system at the moment, there will be pension counselors who will be able to advise such a person whether this situation is profitable for him or not at the moment, but this person must decide for himself whether his or her health allows him or her to continue to work. She must consider whether there are other responsibilities, care at home for someone close to her, or various other factors that make her quit her job or take up her job, because these calculations show that if she works another year, she will have a higher pension and it pays her more. The key is that those decisions are made by a person who wants to benefit from it. So here it is. It's difficult to accurately estimate the costs. If you take some size, you take the amounts that we've been talking about. There is also a recommendation from our ministry to refer this project to the committee and the subcommittee and work on it there. We also hope that the Presidential Project will be presented to the High House in the near future and that, together, at the committee meeting, we will be able to consider and prepare a good solution that will meet the expectations of those who are waiting for internship pensions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the parliamentary club Lewis asked for the floor as corrected. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u411	Mr. Valentine's Marshal! Minister! I was quoting your statement of 22 July 2010 when the representative of the legislative initiative died. Jan tum was presenting this kind of bill that I was talking about today. That's all. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u412	Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Marcin Zielenecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u413	How much time do I have? You have 15 minutes, sir, but we will listen to your words, and we will be able to do that. Thank you very much. That's what I was hoping for, to be honest. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the substantive discussion on, let me remind you, the citizens' bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which introduces internship pensions. There are many threads in the discussion. I'm going to try to respond to the ones that have been going through here most of the time. Most often there was a thread of the condition that the right to an internship pension depends on the creation of capital or a pension contribution allowing the pension to be determined in the amount of the lowest pension. Quite often there was also a thread concerning precisely these low benefits, whether there are safeguards in this project for people whose benefits may be low. Thus, this condition, which makes it possible to retire as an internship, depends on having the pension right in the amount of the lowest benefit, is precisely the protective role. She's supposed to prevent these internship benefits from being starving, as is sometimes said. Only persons who have achieved a long internship but at the same time have paid contributions on salaries to the extent that retirement allows simply to determine this benefit in the amount of the minimum benefit will be entitled to a pension. This is the element that protects against low pension benefits in the case of internship benefits. Of course, these benefits will be determined - here you are right - according to the formula of the defined contribution. We know how this formula works, we know that the amount of benefit in this system depends on the value of the pension contribution, i.e. the amount of contributions paid during the working life, but this proposed traineeship, for women - 35 years, for men - 40 years, is a guarantee that this contribution will be of sufficient value. The situation is similar with regard to the second element of this formula of the defined contribution, because we calculate the pension by dividing this pension contribution by the average life expectancy of people of the retirement age expressed in months. So the earlier the insured person decides to retire, the greater the number of months and the lower the benefit, right? So it's like a mechanism that's supposed to make conscious decisions. Here I agree with you that those who meet these internship requirements will have to make an individual, conscious decision as to whether to retire or wait at this particular moment. These decisions are based on many factors, not only economic, but also e.g. the state of health, the family situation, the plans for spending your life in retirement. Each of these decisions is an individual decision. This is a project that increases flexibility because it allows insured people to make an independent, autonomous decision about when they retire. It is up to the employee whether he wants to work longer and obtain a higher pension or, in other respects, decide to retire when he meets his internship conditions. There were a few more specific questions. Mrs Skowrońska asked about students or periods of study. There is no discrimination against those who have studied. This function is the basis for premium and non-contributory periods. If we were to consider whether we were only proposing premium periods, perhaps this argument would be correct, but it just so happens that periods of study, like other periods, e.g. periods of childcare - when social security contributions have not yet been paid during parental leave - are taken into account in the traineeship on which the right to an internship pension depends. Or rather, we propose that the right to an internship pension be dependent on it. In our view, there is no element of discrimination. There was a similar question in the spirit of including craftsmen in this project. It is worth noting that this is - indeed I have given examples from life taken, people who have remained in a relationship with work - a project that has a wider range of subjects. We do not simply propose that persons who have been insured for their employment relationship should be entitled to an internship pension. This is a project addressed to different categories of insured persons, including non-agricultural persons. It was also recalled that the craftsmen paid or paid low contributions, so this does not affect the possibility of acquiring the right to an internship pension according to this project. There was a question about the number of people who would benefit from the solutions contained in the citizens' bill. In its opinion on this project, the Social Insurance Institution estimates the number of such persons at 470 000. I wanted to bring up one more topic, the problem of pre-retirement protection. I think it's worth paying attention to, too. You will remember the text of the article. 39 Labour Code. We know that the Labour Code provides special protection for the sustainability of employment relationships for people who are 4 years below retirement age. In this respect, this project does not change anything. Protection against termination of employment will continue to be granted four years before the retirement age. The second protection against pushing out persons who fulfil the conditions for acquiring the right to an internship pension is the principle which is the foundation of Polish labour law: the fulfilment of the conditions for acquiring the right to a pension, even reaching the retirement age, cannot be a reason to justify termination of the employee's employment contract. Even if an employee reaches today's retirement age, or 60 years for women, 65 years for men, there is no possibility that the employer will solve his employment relationship for this reason, and this principle will also apply here. There was a question about employees or insured persons who, due to the care of the child, had recently entered the working life of a large number of children. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we cannot consider this project in isolation from other solutions that we have in the wider social security system. Solutions in the form of so-called We have already had parental supplementary benefits in the system for several years. Maybe another thread that also appeared in the discussion. The point is whether we have a thoughtful issue of the diversity of traineeships for women and men, and whether it should be 35 years for women, 40 years for men. I think the examples I gave when presenting the bill are quite eloquent. This is a project addressed to people who started their professional activity very early at a very young age and fairly for a long time - 35 years in the case of women, 40 years in the case of men - were engaged in employment. If we accept, and here there is no need for any great estimation, if we apply the solutions contained in this project to this pattern, 15 years plus 35, then we can roughly determine... Of course, this model, when it comes to employment, did not always look the way I put it. The history of each insured person is different, the material situation is different, the family situation is different, the starting point is different, the salary is different, but we can thus imagine what categories of persons can or will benefit from the benefits of an internship pension. There's one more thing I want to say. Namely, I think that this topic which appeared in the discussion, about the educational and educational nature of the internship pension is very important because the employment model that I presented: early start, continuous work for many decades, very often working on a single job regardless of working conditions for young generations - the state here, too, has mentioned this topic several times, speaking about a pay-as-you-go social security system - it is not so, I would say gladly accepted. We know that we are reluctant to pay contributions, and in many cases we are dealing with situations where we avoid paying contributions, so this educational value, showing an example that it is worth paying contributions from the youngest years in a continuous manner, is very important. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, first of all, for his words, for the declaration of accession to the draft law, for the kindness and favour of all parliamentary clubs. I hope that the expectations of Poles who signed up to the citizens' bill amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund in this respect will be met. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u414	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 December this year. Thank you very much to the ministers, thank you very much to the applicants, thank you very much for coming to the House of Democracy, which is the Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. And here we go. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just before announcing the next edition of the Polish Ład program, it is worth to say a few words about the amount of funds raised by local governments from the Zamojszczyzna area in the framework of the first recruitment in the field of the Strategic Investment Programme. Today's Zamojszczyzna is 55 local governments, including 50 rural and urban municipalities, four district old towns and one city on the rights of the county. This is an area where local authorities have to systematically make up for economic and social delays, especially in the construction and modernisation of road networks, water supply, sewage, modernization of schools and educational establishments, libraries, cultural houses and a number of public buildings such as rural skylights or fire stations. The size of the budgets of particularly small rural municipalities makes it impossible to carry out such investments on their own, so much needed for residents, whose aim is to improve the life of the local community in general. The announcement in July this year of the first recruitment under the Strategic Investment Programme by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego was a response to the needs of Zamojszczyzna local authorities, especially since in the country it was allocated for non-refundable grants of PLN 23 billion. The proposals could be submitted in accordance with the criteria established under the four priorities and the own contribution of the local government was between 5% and 20% depending on the value of the investment task. As a result of the first recruitment under the Strategic Investment Programme, local authorities from the Zamość region received a non-refundable grant for investment tasks of 380 561 thousand. zł, which is a record amount of financing of these sites in the history of the Third Republic. In individual powiats the grants amounted to: in the district of Bilgoraj - more than 107 million, Hrubieszowski - 66 million, Tomaszowski - 86 million, Zamość - 97 million, while the city of Zamość received PLN 23 million. It should be stressed that, contrary to opposition politicians' concerns, all local authorities received grants and that no one considered their political views during the evaluation of the proposals. Within the framework of the Strategic Investment Programme in Zamość, 96 projects will be carried out in various fields. Indeed, investments related to the construction and modernisation of municipal and district roads, the construction of waterworks and sewage systems, the modernisation of sewage treatment plants, the construction of kindergartens, sports fields and many, many others are dominant. During the actions of handing over symbolic cheques to local authorities and during meetings, the vast majority of them emphasized the uniqueness of this program. Firstly, the amount of funds received is very high, in many cases reaching half of the current municipal budget. Secondly, a small own contribution enables the municipality, even in financial difficulties, to implement the planned investment. Following the announcement of the result of the above-mentioned recruitment during the week, local authorities received further very good information. According to the assumptions, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki decided to support water and sewage projects with an additional amount of PLN 4 billion. As announced, projects will receive support especially where there is no modern water and sewerage network, or where there are water supply networks that are dangerous to health and need to be replaced. As part of this programme, the municipalities from Zamojszczyzna received more than 135 million PLN of non-refundable subsidies, broken down into investments related to water supply, over 40 million PLN, and sewage investments - over 95 million PLN. The Strategic Investment Programme launched under the Polish Ład programme is a huge opportunity for residents of the whole country, but in particular for Eastern Poland, where there are very large infrastructure deficiencies. As a Lublin resident, I firmly believe that subsequent editions of this programme will definitely eliminate the development disparities between the various areas of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u416	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns negligence on the part of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways related to the reconstruction and renovation of the national road No 15 in section Gniezno - Jewish - Czeluścin. A few years earlier, the General Directorate of National Roads had renovated the first section of the road, September - Czeluścin. The second section, Czeluścin - Jewish - Gniezno, was to be renovated in 2019. The local authorities of the municipality of Czernejewo, the cities of Gniezna and the municipalities of Niemanowo, including themselves in this important investment, have adopted appropriate arrangements. Unfortunately, many of these arrangements are no longer valid due to the passage of time. This renovation and reconstruction are important, first of all, because of the safety of drivers using this road, but also the inhabitants living there. There are frequent collisions and accidents, including fatal accidents in Cielimowo and Szczytniki Czernejewskie. Secondly, this section of the road connects two centers, it is also a road towards Wrocław. This road is also used by the inhabitants of that part of Poland, moving, in short, to the sea. Therefore, for several years I have been making efforts, together with representatives of local authorities, to repair this road earlier. There is hope, because as the media informs, a tender has been conducted for the execution of documentation and administrative arrangements for the reconstruction of this section of the road. Nevertheless, the announcement that it is not until 2023 that this investment is to be carried out, the inhabitants and local authorities are not satisfied. Therefore, once again on 3 December, I allowed myself to submit an interview to the Minister of Infrastructure. I hope that the answer will be different from that of February 2020. In order also to respond positively and help the Directorate-General in working on the draft State budget for 2022, I have tabled an appropriate amendment, which is included in the report, minority request No 493. It provides for a special reserve for the renovation of this road in the amount of PLN 18 million. I hope that consideration will be given to the efforts and expectations of residents and local authorities of the Gniezno district regarding the reconstruction of this section of the road, important from the point of view of the Wielkopolska voivodship, but also, as I said, transfer from the Lower Silesian voivodship to the sea, and the investment will be carried out or started in 2022. I count very much on this and ask the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to inform them of how this intervention is dealt with in response to the interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Strike to defend the crosses in Włoszczów. During the period of the Polish People's Republic, the crosses appeared in schools when the solidarity was established, in 1980 and 1981. However, after the introduction of martial law, the authorities returned to the atheization of society. From the schools the symbols of faith began to be removed and so it was in Italy. On Friday 30 November 1984, young people decided to devote their crosses to the local church. About 200 students went through demonstrative streets of Włoszczowa in the procession from boarding school to the local parish church of St. The Assumption of the Virgin Mary. They carried wooden crosses in their hands, such as are usually hung over doors in their homes. During that time, a disco was organized at the school. The students ignored her by choosing an evening service. During the Mass the priest Kazimierz Biernacki consecrated the crosses and explained to young people what responsibility they took on, bearing the cross of Christ. On Saturday, crosses hung in classes. Young people prayed and sang church songs, gave teachers crosses to kiss and just hung over the door. The re-picture of the crosses from the walls led to a protest that took the form of a strike. On 3 December 1984, the school principal Julian Lis decided to suspend school activities indefinitely and called on young people to leave the school building. The young people did not submit to this order and about 200 people, including two priests, Marek Łabuda and Andrzej Wilczyński, remained in the school, demanding a re-suspension in the classrooms of crosses removed at the direction of the management. Roads to Italy were covered by the ZOMO patrols. Officers have ID'd people entering, often blocking the possibility of any contact with the strike party. Some of the teachers, the supporters of Director Lisa, visited student homes and encouraged their parents to get their children out of school. The local community was solidarity with the strikers, food and clothing were taken to school. The day-to-day situation was becoming more and more tragic. Uncertainty, the constant expectation of students' messages, caused their parents to petition the Minister of Education. Unfortunately, she didn't give anything. Afraid of the students, as well as of their future, teachers asked for a strike to be completed. Some parents even took their children home by force. In the end, there were about 80 people left in the school. On 16 December 1984, the strike was concluded. On that day Bishop Mieczysław Jaworski came to Italy and thanked young people for their mature attitude. From school to the nearby church there was a procession with crosses, along the way the inhabitants of Włoszczowa joined it. It didn't take long for the school to be repressed. The decision to expel Renata Gałkiewicz from school was made on the post-Christmas meeting of the pedagogical council. Anna Synowska and Mariaola Lewicka only passed their M.A. several years later. Kazimierz Ostrowski's teacher was tried from work, but after cancellation the decision was withdrawn. The school authorities failed to comply with previous assurances of non-abuse of repression against the strikers, on the contrary, they were being harassed. On the other hand, the clergy who participated in the strike were brought to justice and were forced to travel abroad for missions to Africa. It's been 37 years since the events of those years. Many of the strikers are already dead. It is difficult to answer for them, or today, knowing the consequences of these acts, they would decide on an act such as that, in December 1984. Those who remain assure you so. The memory of these events among Italians is eternally alive, as reflected in the solemn celebrations that took place on 3 December this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Municipal Social Assistance Centre in Świekatów in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship submitted the following message: Please be informed that the planned payment of the 500+ educational benefit on 14 December 2021 will be carried out at a later date, as soon as the funds are received from the voivodship office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! It is one of the smallest municipalities in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. Ladies and gentlemen ministers, Christmas is coming up. For some, every penny counts. Therefore, I have a question: When will the beneficiaries of the 500+ programme from the municipality of Świekatowo receive the funds due to properly prepare Christmas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, thanks to the vote at the meeting of the Joint Education Committee and the National Defence Committee of the opposition, work on the fatal bill amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws has been blocked. It is a small success of the opposition, but a great victory for all who protested against these changes, especially parents, teachers and students. Ladies and gentlemen! Why, contrary to the declarations made by the Ministry of Education and Science on the deburerocratization of school work and institutions, does the project of changes in the Education Law conducted in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland contain solutions which force the collection of additional documents necessary for the implementation of additional, complementary, educational projects enriching the educational offer of schools and public institutions? The administrative procedures under the legal framework which hinder the development of a good school show that the current heads of school and institution are not trusted with teachers and parents of pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The martial law on peter's land. The industrial plants of Piotrkowska land joined the nationwide independence movement very early, whose final aim was to create on the basis of the so-called. the August agreements of the "Solidarity'. On August 8th, a strike began at the Transport and Technology Department at KWB Bełchatów. Tomaszów Mazowiecki, Piotrków Trybunalski and Radomsko were protested. The waves of strikes crossed the region from September to November 1980. They usually ended with agreements that ensured that wage and social demands of workers would be implemented. Gradually, the cells of independent trade unions were formed in various workplaces. By mid-January, they had about 44,000. Members. During the whole period of "Solidarity" various types of protest activities were carried out. The largest assembly took place on 30 July in Piotrków Trybunalski, where 4 thousand took part in the demonstration, which ended in front of the building of the voivodship office. People. At the plant there was a readiness to strike, the atmosphere was vibrating. On the night of December 12th to 13th, the militia and the Security Service began their arrests. It must be added that they also lasted later. It sounded like a dangerous phrase: martial law. In the region 42 people were interned, among others. sleep. Zbigniew Mrozinski, later Member of the Sejm, Jacek Tworkowski, also Member of the Sejm, Teresa Lechowska, Leszek Rusin, Witold Kowalczyk and many other activists of Solidarity. The security authorities had over 200 conversations, trying to intimidate friends and families in custody. All interned were released until 15 November 1982. It is worth mentioning that the communist authorities then interned not only active activists, but in their perfidia they decided to intern people who had already been detained and repressed - veterans of World War II who were suspected of anti-state sympathies. Such were Adam Trypus, an old silent man, a man who was already severely ill, repressed during the Stalinist period. Mr. Adam died in July 1982, and the internment accelerated his death. The day after the martial law was introduced, short strikes took place in many sites throughout the region. It was a protest against his introduction. Both interned families and themselves received assistance from freelance activists of the Socialist Church and the Catholic Church. He organized it in Piotrków, among others. Fr Remigiusz Wysocki from the church of the Jesuit Fathers, in Tomaszów Mazowiecki the help centre was at St. Families, and in Radomsk - at St. Lambert. Independence activities have been transferred to the underground. Many press titles were published, and there were periodicals that appeared irregularly because their editorial offices were permanently monitored and closed. In Piotrków Trybunalski the Ministry of Labour was established, at the invitation of which after Holy Mass. meetings were held for the country, where they were attended, among others. Jan Olszewski, Jerzy Kropiwnicki or Kornel Morawiecki. For many Poles, martial law was an almost eschatological experience. The motives of its introduction to this day are studied by historians and still arouse great emotions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A year ago, on 28 November, a Member of the Polish Parliament died in the 8th term of office of Jan Kilian, my dear friend. We became friends after the 2015 parliamentary elections. Jan Kilian was my age, three weeks younger. Self-government officer, Councillor of the Old-Garden District Council, city councilman, social worker. A warm, humble, empathetic man, very devoted to the little and this large country, devoted to God. He put a lot of effort into trying to get the construction of the Gdansk Starogard ring road into the plan. During his work in the 8th Seym, he argued on every opportunity to build a ring road. I've been really hurt by Janek's death myself, and I miss him so much. We supported each other in parliamentary work, we worked together in the Parliamentary Group. solving the problems of residents of the Polish district and municipality in the Committee on Infrastructure. We prepared a joint meeting of the Infrastructure Commission in May 2017 in his city, in Starogard Gdański, and in Chojnice. I would like to add that there has never been a session of the Sejm committee in our cities before. During these two days, because it was a two-day away meeting, we discussed the exclusion of communication, the plans related to the national road no.22, its ring road, the ring road of Starogard Gdański. On Sunday, 28 November of this year, in Starogard Gdański and in Gdańsk at the Srebrzysko cemetery there were anniversary celebrations commemorating the late person. Mr Jan Kilian. The wreath on the grave was laid, among others. Deputy Pomeranian Voivode Mariusz Łuczyk. Holy Mass. For the soul of the deceased, she was dismissed in the church of St. St. Katarzyna in Starogard Gdański. After that, there was a evening where the sleeper was mentioned. Jan Kilian. Unfortunately, because of my illness and bad feeling, I could not attend the anniversary celebrations, which I regret very much. Mariusz Łuczyk, Vice-President of the Pomeranian Voivode, spoke on my behalf. The ceremony was attended by family and others. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, activists of the Law and Justice of the Gdansk Starogard and Tczew. Janek, rest in peace. I miss you so much. I ask that after the construction of the ring road of Starogard Gdansk it bear your name: the name of Jan Kilian, a Member of the Polish Parliament, which Janek as a Member deserves very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u429	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the early '80s. In the 20th century, the largest employer in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, and at the same time the strongest workplace in the structure of the Świętokrzyskie Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, was Huta im. Marcel Novotka. In the so-called. The old and new plant of the steelworks worked 16 thousand at the time. those of whom the vast majority belonged to the union. The intense activity of the steel solidarity in 1980 and 1981 resulted in the largest and only strike on Świętokrzyskie soil at the time of the martial law. Its outburst should be linked to the internment of the leaders of the Ostrowiec.Solidarity, which took place at night from 12 to 13 December. In total, more than 20 people were detained in the city, among them. Wiesław Standzikowski, Henryk Gruszka, Robert Minkina, Adam Mitura, Józef Gurczyński and Henryk Nawojski. The internships began at midnight and lasted until hours. Three in the morning. The first of the people who were informed about the detention of trade unionists were their colleagues on duty in the Delegation of the Management Board of the Region of Świętokrzyskie NSZZ.Solidarities on the estate of the Gardens: Marceli Czarnecki, Tadeusz Kiełkiewicz, Mieczysław Kadewski, Józef Fudala. That's about an hour to them. One of the interns arrived, who told us about the brutality of policemen's actions. After their hearing, the delegates at the delegation's headquarters scattered around the city to inform about the events of other union activists. Independently from them, Wiesław Standzikowska, the wife of the interned head of the steel industry, who informed Zygmunt Jakubowski and Wiesław Kwiatkowski. Stefan Kowalski and Waldemar Gomula were also notified in this way. Thanks to the warning action, several leading steel workers avoided internment and most of them found themselves in their workplaces, where they joined the organization of the strike. It lasted from morning hours on 13 December to 3 p.m. 2 of 15 December 1981 Several thousand people took part in it. At the end of the strike, about 1750 steelworks - 1500 steelworks and 250 steelworks - left the facility. At that time, the Hutniks set up a strike committee, which subsequently turned into a rescue committee for the union. They set up a worker's guard and announced postulates, among them. demand for the release of interned colleagues. The epilogue of this strike was the trials brought about by leaders and particularly active participants in the strike. Among them were Marceli Czarnecki, Andrzej Dudek, Jerzy Jabłoński, Tadeusz Stasiowski, Jerzy Borowiec, Henryk Friday, Marian Susfał, Jan Szaran, Andrzej Wójcik, Janusz Ziajski and Józef Fudala. They were sentenced to prison. Other persons sentenced to prison sentences for activities in underground structures were Leszek Olszewski, Krzysztof Partyka, Jarosław Salita, Ryszard Sobala, Zbigniew Walczyk and Andrzej Żółciński. Those who were persecuted were sentenced in June 1982, among others. There was much more fired from work. Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski remembers those events. On 10 December, the efforts of activists of the Association of Free and Solidarni 1980-1989, Jerzy Jabłoński, Wiesław Kwiatkowski, Mieczysław Dudka, Krzysztof Mikos, Stanisław Oleszk, Tadeusz Relikowski, Wojciech Krasuski, Mark Kolczuga and Jan Kaptur in Ostrowiecki Browar Kultury were opened by the exhibition "40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law." In the evening of December 13th, Mass was celebrated in the steel church, and then the memorial march of the victims of martial law passed. This year it took place for the 17th time. Its participants placed flowers and lit candles under the plaque at the roundabout of Solidarity. The Ostrowiec remembers and doesn't forget. Glory be to the heroic Ostrovite steelworks who opposed the introduction of martial law. Praise the heroes of fighting for free Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u430	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Kopiec, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u431	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The RCB alert is a text message that is sent only in exceptional situations when people's life and health are directly at risk. This is described by the government on the official website. Yesterday the inhabitants of Rybnik received an alert with the content: Attention! On 13 and 14 December bad air quality for particulate matter is forecast. Quit your activity outside. It is psychic that the government warns against the inability of a government that threatens the health and life of its citizens. Katowice and Kraków have introduced free city communications today to reduce emissions, which means that once again the costs of government failure will be borne by local governments. The clean air programme, planned for the years 2019 and 2029, has PLN 103 billion. Over three years, only over 2 billion have been spent. If nothing changes, we will spend only 9 billion by the end of it. You're gonna waste 90%. planned measures. This is the true measure of your efficiency and concern for human health. A few days ago, on 9 December, he passed a sentence in the Law of Oliver Palarz of Rybnik, which showed partial loss of health and a restriction of freedom due to the current smog. The plaintiff was convicted of 30,000. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It is therefore clear from the judgment that the State is violating the personal interests of citizens. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 38 of the Constitution makes it clear that the Polish State provides all citizens with legal protection of life. Meanwhile, a child going to school breathes air comparable to smoking. Polish Smog Alert in December ub. r. calculated that 140 thousand would have to be mentioned in the Silesian Voivodeship. boilers. The main reason why Poles do not change sources of heating and energy are prices. It's not like they're doing it out of spite. Them just for it No, no, no, no, no, no, In the Polish budget there is only one money and it is only up to the PiS how they are spent. Facts. Central Communication Port - budget 35 billion PLN. That's $350,000. green heat sources connected with RES. Television Poland - the budget of PLN 18 billion. That's 180 grand. heat sources. Saski Palace - 2.5 billion PLN. That's $25,000. heat sources. Excavation of Vistula mine - 2 billion PLN. That's 20,000. heat sources. In 30 s I found sources of funding for over half a million modern energy sources for single-family homes. The Polish Smog Alert last year was calculated, I remind you that 140 thousand should be mentioned in the Silesian Voivodeship itself. boilers. It's just to indicate the scale. But instead of taking care of clean air, the government takes care of the company Solorz - Obejtek monopoly on atom heating, so that by chance nobody does it cheaper and better. One of the pillars of the Fund for Reconstruction is energy transformation and green energy sources. You drive around Poland and hand out vouchers for money from this fund, while these are uncoverable checks. This money will not be done by violating the rule of law, by xenophobia, by your direction on polexit. You already know that your stubbornness in dismantling the rule of law received PLN 770 billion from Poland. Prime Minister Morawiecki is already so distraught that he sends texts to European politicians, signing himself: the last European in this government. How low do you have to fall? That's the consequences of the Orbán and Le Pen constellations and the bullshit. Veto or death. There will be death caused by the diseases caused by the breathing of the air that kills, and it will be you who are responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u433	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are in the history of art characters anything controversial, e.g. Daniele da Volterra, a friend and disciple of Michelangelo, who in the 16th century, at the request of Pope Paul IV painted the wardrobe elements on the famous fresco, or, for example, the final court. Pope Pius IX, who in the middle of the 19th century became famous for the fact that he was supposedly cutting the elements of nature off all the sculptures in the church state with his own chisel. This infamous pantheon was recently joined by the director of the Silesian Museum in Katowice, Maria Czarnecka. Here's the 11th. The Triennial of Polish Graphics in this museum noted that one of the works is entitled in a way that takes into account the slogan: lex Szyszko. It was the work of Mr Michał Krawc, one of the Polish graphic designers, a collage depicting machines for cutting down trees against the background of steel, post-industrial buildings. It is not here, it cannot be here, because of such attitudes Prof. Szyszko is dead - she was to tell the director and order the employees of the Silesian Museum to immediately scratch this element of the name from the wall. I will not allow a press conference opening the triennial to begin if that name does not disappear immediately. Let us remind you that this was about the graphics title of one of the triennial participants. I was astonished to hear that the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship is not interested in this situation. He says I wasn't there, I had nothing to do with this exhibition, I have no idea why the director behaved like that. The previous director of the Silesian Museum cancelled. Importantly, after a court battle, it turned out that he had called her off with a serious violation of the law. He accused her of incompetence. How incompetent she was is her current job. The previous director of the Silesian Museum is today the head of the National Gallery in Prague - Czech Prague, chosen in the competition, of course. The Czech brothers are very proud of her work. This is how culture and art are today in the province ruled by the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u435	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On December 10, we celebrated Human Rights Day. It is a celebration established on the anniversary of the United Nations General Assembly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. It's an extremely important document for everyone, I think, people in the world. It announces inalienable rights which are available to everyone as a human being, regardless of race, colour of skin, religion, gender, language, political views, national or social origin, wealth, birth or other status. On this day, we particularly remember the advocates of human rights who strive to ensure the protection of their own rights and the rights of others and put a lot of effort into ensuring that they are respected on a daily basis. Many of them are persecuted, unemployed, or unjustly imprisoned. We remember their courage and achievements on the occasion of Christmas. But this is also an opportunity to reflect on how much our attitude toward other people expresses our humanity. Today, this is an extremely timely question, which is why I encourage you to reach out to the declaration and discover it for yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Waldemar Andzel. Well, then I'm worried about the absenteeism. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm making a statement on the revision of the provisions on COVID supplements for medical professionals. On 1 November 2021, new rules for the clearance of COVID additives for medical practitioners appeared. The current regulations on the clearance of COVID additives provide that they are paid for each hour of care for a patient with COVID-19 or suspected infection with SARS-CoV-2. The additives are 100% the remuneration resulting from the employment contract or from the civil law contract due for each hour of work, but the maximum monthly amount may not exceed 15 000. zł. The required criteria must also be met. The criteria below must be met in total: (a) pursues a medical profession; (b) participates in the provision of health services and has direct contact with patients suspected of being infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus; c) works in branches where the medical institution provides beds for patients with suspicion and confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, so-called. Level II of COVID security. I declare that it is highly unfair to omit thousands of workers who do not comply with the requirement of point c. The requirement of direct contact with the patient excluded from the additions of laboratory diagnostics who do not have such contact, although every day in their work each of them has contact with the infectious material of people suffering from COVID-19. Thousands of health workers take an active part in the process of treating diseases every day and with dedication, also putting their lives and health at risk. Their work looks the same as employees who are so-called employees. COVID units: multi-hour wearing suits, use of harmful disinfectants, etc. The staff who have been excluded according to the new rules of settlement of COVID supplements for doctors are: the staff of the diagnostic laboratory - the basis for the treatment of COVID-19 is the diagnostic imaging of the respiratory system: the CT scan of the lungs, X-rays and many others - the staff of the endoscopy laboratory and the staff of the operating blocks. Named employees are struggling with the fourth wave. They're doing over 100,000. daily tests. So far, they've done 20 million tests in the direction of COVID-19. The above statistics show that there is no doubt as to the appropriateness of including this group of medical practitioners and this professional group in the catalogue of authorised persons who should receive the COVID supplement. I declare that a group of diagnostic lab staff, endoscopy labs and operating block workers have been excluded from receiving the COVID supplement, even though they are exposed to SARS-CoV-2 every day to the same extent. I declare that the amendments introduced on 1 November this year. have been operational since the month of October. The benefits for the month of October were not paid to the above employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u438	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are working on a budget for 2022. For me, as a Member of Pomerania, the most important are, of course, investments in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, so every year I strive for the most important ones that are reported by the inhabitants. This year I made two amendments for money to expand two nodes on the current Tricity S6 ring road. The first concerns PLN 16 million for the extension of Shadółka's node. The currently existing node is undersized and does not meet the standards of the high-speed road. The second amendment concerns PLN 10 million for the extension of the Kowale node, which, like the Shadółka node, is undersized and does not meet the standards. For years, residents and local authorities have been calling for the extension of these nodes not only due to the cumbersome traffic, but above all to the safety of the journey. Both nodes have very poor visibility due to their indimension, which makes it difficult for drivers to get involved in traffic. This creates dangerous situations for other traffic users. In addition, both nodes are not suitable for cycling and pedestrian traffic. It's about cyclists and pedestrians who want to get to the other side of the ring road. However, some try to do so. This could end tragically. Both the inhabitants and the city of Gdansk have been seeking the construction of these nodes for years. Unfortunately, the cost of their expansion exceeds the financial possibilities of the city of Gdańsk. It is estimated that the expansion of both nodes will cost about PLN 200 million for each of them. I therefore appeal to the PiS Government to accept these amendments and support the use of money to start the expansion of these two important nodes. At the meeting of the finance committee, Mr PiS, even those from Pomerania who so much promised to help the people during the election campaign, unfortunately they did not support these two amendments. No words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u440	Thank you very much. With a brief statement, late Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. Mr President, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u441	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 40 years ago, on 13 December 1981, martial law was introduced in Poland. The National Rescue Military Council took over the country. About 100 victims of martial law were counted. Of course, there were many more, almost all murdered by the so-called. unknown perpetrators were real victims of SB, MO or Zomo. I believe that the 40th anniversary of this tragic day in Polish history is an excellent opportunity to call all those responsible for the introduction of martial law criminals or perpetrators. Let's stop with the rhetoric of calling bandits architects, creators or authors of martial law. And we know very well that the comrades Kiszczak and Jaruzelski are not the only perpetrators. Mr Andrzej Kołodziej, an activist of the Solidarity Party and the signatory of the August Agreements, stated that the introduction of martial law was a betrayal of the elite, including the elite of the Solidarity Party. Leading to the creation of the Third Republic of Poland, the continuation of the Polish People's Republic, hits today very clearly, which is the best example in politicized judiciary. A beautiful gesture commemorating the victims of martial law was inflammation in many places around the world lights of freedom. Hello and praise the heroes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u442	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u443	Declaration on the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. On 13 December 1981, at 3 p.m. 6 a.m.The Polish Radio gave a speech by General Wojciech Jaruzelski, in which he informed Poles about the formation of the Military Council of National Rescue - WRON - and the introduction of the state of martial law by the decree of the Council of the State Council throughout the country. Very strong forces have been mobilized to fight the civilian population. It is estimated that a total of about 70,000 took part in this huge operation. Soldiers and 30,000. Militia and 1750 tanks, almost 2,000. Trucks and 9,000. Cars. It's one of the blackest cards in the history of our homeland. It appears that more than 10,000 were interned during the martial law. activists associated with the Solidarity and life lost from dozens to about 100 people - including nine miners from the Wujek mine during the pacification of the strike. It should be stressed that the exact number of people who have suffered death as a result of the introduction of martial law is not entirely known. This also applies to those who have lost their physical and mental health as a result of persecution, abuse and battery during the investigation. Let us remember the victims of the communist regime.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-sejm-44-1.u444	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 15 December 2021, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 31]]
