ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely, in turn, I inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 54 people voted, i.e. there is a quorum. [[Voting No 14]] Oh, I can see that this has increased visually, and aesthetically it looks better, so that we can proceed. The rest, of course, please come as soon as possible. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that today we will begin our deliberations by considering item 19 - information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020. Then we will consider point eight, i.e. the law on amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws, and point twelve, i.e. the law amending the law on administrative procedure. In addition, today around 6:00 p.m., we will proceed with the review of the point: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. The vote will take place immediately after consideration of this item. I would like to warn you that if we proceed faster, we will proceed to this point perhaps an hour or a half sooner, but it will depend on the course of the sitting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020 together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. The text of the information is provided in print No 362. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 26 May 2021 and informed the Speaker of the Senate. At the moment, I would like to welcome Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, who is present at the Senate hearing. I'm gonna ask your spokesperson to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u2	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I ask you kindly to listen to the Ombudsman's information on the Ombudsman's activities in 2020 and to comment on the state of compliance with the rights of the child in the previous year. The Ombudsman shall act on the basis of the Ombudsperson's Act of 6 January 2000. The Ombudsman's main actions are to ensure that children are fully and harmoniously developed with respect for their dignity and subjectivity and, above all, the protection of children. The Ombudsman is one of the constitutional control bodies. High Izbo, 2020 was an extraordinary year due to the pandemic of Coronavirus and its associated restrictions. These restrictions have in particular affected the youngest generation, children and young people born after 2000. Multi-monthly separation of children from each other, remote education, restrictions on movement and many other social aspects will certainly lead to new research work, the need to address new, unprecedented legislative challenges, but above all in terms of mutual support, the rebuilding of social links. Health rights, right to family education, social and social rights, right to study will require re-evaluation and often a new definition. Or maybe it's the opposite. In some cases, they will require the restoration of their original content, which we often forgot before the pandemic. The year 2020 was also a year that... the most important right of every human being is the right to live. This right is granted to everyone regardless of race, skin color, religion, property status, health status or any other qualities. The right to life is enshrined and enshrined in all the most important international and national acts. The right to life stands before any other law with unconditional priority. The rules laid down can only confirm and protect this right, because it comes from natural law and is an immanent part of it. The right to life was met in 2020 with a security, which I am also writing about in the information, in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which referred to the grounds for abortion. I would like to remind you that the Act on the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child is, apart from the Constitution, the only legal act in Poland, in which it is clearly defined when life begins. We can't deny that. Well, according to the article. The 2nd Ombudsperson of Children's Rights Act is a child of every human being from conception to adulthood. And from this right, from the question of ensuring this right, the protection of this right begins with my annual information, because it is difficult not to start with a fundamental right which, in the hierarchy of laws, cannot yield to any other law. The activities of the Ombudsman in 2020 have changed, as have many institutions, but the cases that have affected the Ombudsman, and there have been over 32 000 cases, have covered many aspects of the activity so far. A team of court cases, family cases and minors noted an increased number of cases. The impact of past, previous, ongoing cases was also considerable. These cases concerned most of the family disputes about children during divorces, during child support proceedings, contacts, parental power. The number of these cases shows how much a change is needed, which I have been calling for since the beginning of my office, but also earlier. It's a matter of immediate alimony and family information proceedings. I also call on the High House to come here as soon as these regulations have arrived. Perhaps it could also be a senate project She adopted them as soon as possible. I also declare, as I have already mentioned at the time of the submission of information in the Sejm, cooperation in matters concerning the so-called. alienation. These projects "Whether government or senate, they can absolutely be connected and go in one direction, i.e. to improve the situation of children in courts. The very important activity of the child's spokesperson in response to the demand and what was seen in 2020 was that I set up 24/7 support for children, i.e. the Children's Trust Phone, the telephone number 800 12 12 12. Since December, when the phone started working around the clock, the service, i.e. experts, lawyers, psychologists, educators, has been able to help many thousands of children. We've also launched an online chat room. You can say that this is the first national 24/7 help phone for children. There was also an information campaign about this phone. Many thousands of children were able to help during the pandemic period, during psychological difficulties, during social difficulties, during the separation of children. In dozens of cases, it has also been possible to help in the most difficult cases and even to prevent suicide. This part of the activity is very closely related to the activities of the judicial, family and minor affairs team, because the employees of the Ombudsman's Office immediately perform the necessary activities in such cases, including contact with the relevant authorities, the police and other institutions, to help the child, even at night, even on holidays, even on weekends, as soon as possible. Another very important part of the Ombudsman's activities in 2020 is, of course, education and upbringing. The whole education system in Poland... Such an announcement of closure, you can say, was already in 2019 during the strike. No one then predicted that three weeks of school closure would last later for a year and a half, that there would be de facto physical school closure. Here I would like to thank all those involved, especially parents and teachers, that they were getting to know each other about the difficult nature of their work, their care and their upbringing, and that they supported each other in helping their children at this most difficult time. I've talked about this many times, and I'll do it again today. High Izbo, we weren't prepared for a pandemic and closure. And let's face it, children who, you might say, are the first generation of prosperity? This is the first generation of full freedom, full access to information, contacts, relationships. And these children were limited in their freedom by being locked up at home, by having no contact. In December 2020, I conducted the first study on the relationship... In this case, it was a study conducted in a group of young people aged 15 and their parents. The study concerned the relation to remote education. And the first thing that came up was something obvious, but at the same time coming from them, which is the need to go back to school, the need to contact your peers, the need to contact your teacher, the need to contact another person. Two years ago, we would probably be chasing children away from the phone, computer or iPod, and for the past year and a half we've urged children to spend as much time with these devices as possible, because it was often their only form of contact. In the field of education and education, many interventions concerned the disciplinary proceedings of teachers following the revision of the provisions in 2019. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child shall proceed to such matters of his own motion. I'm being notified by the probation officers about these kinds of cases by disciplinary committees. There were 903 cases like this. There have been interventions concerning children in care, children in youth sociotherapy centres, MOW, shelters. There were also interventions concerning the presence of children in other centres, in kindergartens, in crèches or the operation of various types of schools and the operation of offices. I've carried out checks on this activity. There were also visits to educational institutions. In the field of education and education, what we all felt about children was primarily the cooperation of parents and teachers in terms of the duration of education, transfer of knowledge and skills. At the very beginning of the pandemic, in March 2020, there were very large actions that I supported regarding the transfer to municipalities, i.e. to authorities operating as many computers as possible, of everything that could be considered as a remote contact device so that children would not be excluded from education. This problem, High Izbo, is being dealt with by the whole of Europe. There have been meetings with ombudsmen of children's rights, and it has always been a fundamental problem for every country, and the first fundamental issue was that there should not be children excluded from education, children deprived of education. It's our constitutional duty to educate children. If, in the period before the pandemic, teachers, school heads knew about the problems of their students, all the more so they knew about these problems during the pandemic. And thank you to all those who have committed themselves to this help. I would like to thank all those who in some municipalities even cared that children locked in their homes would have warm meals delivered, which before the pandemic would be the only warm meal for them during the day. So I face all those who have taken care of children in education and upbringing at this difficult time. Another very important aspect of the Ombudsman's activities in 2020 is the social aspect of... social and medical affairs. There were loud cases, but there were also a lot of non-media cases. These included the contact of children with their parents, especially the youngest children at the time of closure, during the pandemic, and the possibility of contact with them during hospital treatment. There have often been situations where children, including the youngest ones, were separated from their parents, and yet we all know that and we agree that part of the therapy part of the support during the treatment, the healing of the child is the participation of the parent. Therefore, many cases, especially at the beginning of the pandemic, concerned this type of intervention. Social affairs, 500+ and 300+ issues continue. There are procedures especially where contacts between parents are difficult, e.g. some parents are abroad, then there is a problem with the payment of benefits. But a very important element about family benefits was that right after the start of the pandemic That was my first speech at the time. In March, I called for custody for the parents of the youngest children with disabilities who had to stay at home to provide care services. These benefits were paid for over 1.5 years. 2 weeks after I spoke on the first crisis shield, these regulations were adopted. As far as health matters are concerned, as I pointed out, they concerned access to healthcare for children. It was also very important to ensure personal contact, because in matters of children you can not always get telepo advice. These are sensitive matters in which we must ensure the presence of a doctor and the possibility of medical consultation. A very large area of activity in the field of social and medical affairs in 2020 was the activity of the Ombudsman in support of psychiatric care, which we speak so loudly about over decades of negligence. In many cases, personal interventions have caused support for children in this crisis. I would also like to convey to the High House And I'd like to thank you for that too. That there were shares, also with my support, for example with a large network of IKEA stores. I thank this network for its cooperation with the support of all branches of child psychiatry in Poland last year. It was over PLN 2 million. Several dozen tirors with equipment, with equipment for child psychiatry units, have been disbanded, transmitted according to the needs reported by these departments. That's what this program was all about. Too bad he didn't break through more. The very important area of action I spoke about earlier about the health activities of children was the activity of the Child Phone of Trust. Another issue, the next important scope of the Ombudsman's activities, is international matters that are dealt with by the International and Constitutional Affairs Team. We hear many times about such matters, most often caused by family conflicts, when children are transported across borders. And this is where all kinds of actions take place. In these matters, I always approach... I also participate in matters concerning foreigners, foreign children, which are located in the territory of Poland. Here many of my interventions, including by actions to administrative courts, to voivodship administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court, have resulted in a change in the decision of the Border Guard or an acceleration of many years of proceedings for children. Such cases also concern the granting of social benefits for foreign children, which are located in the territory of Poland. A check has been carried out in all voivodship offices concerning properly performed activities concerning the legalization of the stay of minors of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Actions to promote the rights of the child. The year 2020 also changed the form of the promotion of these rights by me as a spokesman. There were fewer personal meetings, which in 2019 could be counted in thousands, meetings with children and young people. In 2020 it was among others. remote lessons, including with children abroad. There were competitions, there were meetings that promoted children's rights. I've awarded 13 badges for the merits of protecting the rights of the child. They were less granted patronages to various initiatives. The year 2020 is also the year of active activity when a new office is set up to investigate where there are deficiencies in the pedophilia control system, so-called. a pedophile committee. I participated in the appointment of this committee, the candidate I submitted is the chairman of this committee, and I was the first to apply for the candidate, and I was the first to support the work of this committee so that its activities could begin at all. In 2020 there was a promotional action, from April and May, together with our young stars of the stage, so that the children would be in contact with them, the action stayed at home. There was a competition for doctoral, master's degree, there was an action conducted together with the Foreign Minister, Mr Zbigniew Rau, whom I thank very much. In October, we launched a common web portal for children abroad, which brings together information on the legal systems of almost 30 European countries, so that our citizens and our children have knowledge, awareness of social, educational and often procedural rights in different countries. This has certainly helped to avoid many conflicts. As I pointed out, at the end of 2020, a study was carried out on my behalf and published on the isolation of children during remote learning. I also published the results of a study on children's use of e-cigarettes, which confirmed that this addiction among young people is unfortunately considerable. At the same time, these research results can be used by the Minister of Health to consider what steps should be taken to protect children from this type of addiction. As I said, there were 38,000 517 in office letters coming to the office, so the number of cases the Ombudsman dealt with is very significant. And we refer to the state of compliance with the rights of the child in Poland in 2020. As I mentioned, the year 2020 was in fact the most difficult for children. We adult Poles are preventable, we can find ourselves in different situations, we can explain things to ourselves and survive. It was a very difficult time for our children. Therefore, in 2020 there were very important initiatives that supported children in social matters, i.e. family benefits. It was also very important to support education, i.e. to verify by the Minister of Education, as I have sought, the curricula, so that they are adapted to this form of education. Because we need to know and remember that teachers, teachers prepared for this could not always pass on knowledge, use pedagogical skills through remote connections, often parents had to do these tasks and only then did they see how hard the work of the teacher, the teacher, was when it came to transferring knowledge at different educational levels. Topics on legislative initiatives that have been taken by me as an ombudsman in several dozen general speeches have often been expressed and implemented in legislative acts, as I have sought. At the same time, I pay attention to problems that have not been solved so far. We're gonna start with the family lawsuit, because, after all, the family court cases... It's hard not to start with them, because they certainly involve more than half a million children a day, because there are so many cases in family courts about different aspects: divorces, contacts, parental authority. The smallest case, about 50 zlotys of alimony, is definitely about some child, a dispute between parents about the fact that 50 zlotys of alimony are not paid. I therefore call for these provisions to be adopted. When it comes to education and upbringing, these are important problems, those that go through, you can say, from previous years, about the emancipation of children and young people after their stay in centres, in children's homes, in foster families. This is a very important problem. This may not apply to 100,000 children, certainly not, but if such a young man after his difficult youth, and not because of his own fault, found himself in foster care or in a child's home, we leave him for nothing and do not support him in entering into adulthood, that is our mistake. We must make great efforts to ensure that these matters are settled. My presentation of the annual information to the High House committee a few weeks ago was asked not only for the replacement care, but also for the methods of repairing it, the methods of support. The rules, the proposals I made at the time and passed on to some parliamentarians, this is one side of the coin, because the rules, even the greatest, even the best legislative ones, will do nothing if there are no people, families, mothers, fathers who will accept abandoned children, children in a difficult situation. Hence my appeal... The meeting of the committee of the High House was on Mom's day and then I appealed, and now I also call for us to consider those people who listen to us, watch us, at home, at heart, to take the child to ourselves. I am very pleased with the proposal of Marshal Sewerynski, and will implement it, so that such a social campaign, concerning not only the Children's Call of Trust, but also the support of foster care by paying attention to us, adults, parents for the problem of abandoned children, children left in different situations in institutional foster care... Then there will be no children's homes like in Łódź, where there are over 100 children. To the annual information, High Izbo, I have included 2 reports: on educational benefits and on the decision on disability of children from previous years. To sum up, 2020 for the rights of the child, for the protection of children, for the awareness of children was very difficult. They were the hardest way to put up with this time because it was a completely new time for them. We adults remember various ailments and are able to bear them much more easily, and children need support, children need conversation, children need our presence and love. And for all that was good this year, thank you very much through you. Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u3	Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak? We've already got calls. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Mr Spokesman, for this report. I'd like to ask you three questions. One of these concerns the issue that you raised almost at the end of your speech, foster care and foster care. We haven't used that name in a long time, it's a nursing-education facility, because houses can be in foster homes, and the institution with the biggest, best involvement of staff there will not replace the child's working home. And I'd like to ask you about your initiative on this. I appreciate the call for a heart I'm sure it always comes in handy. But what were your initiatives to amend the rules of law that led the courts to place each child in foster care after the judgment of the court, never before, children under the age of 10 in such institutions as you mentioned, e.g. Lodz? No child who has not been 10 years old should be admitted to institutional custody in accordance with the law applicable for 10 years. What did you do about it? Because here are the legislative and legal errors that need to be corrected. We can't handle it any other way. And I beg you, don't blame this on the elders directly performing foster care, because they have to execute court decisions. Were there any speeches you made regarding the way judges were trained by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office? Were there any attempts to change the rule, to make a general statement on this matter? That's the first thing. The second case concerns parental alienation and the changes you're announcing you're going to be making the government. Because parental alienation is not the same as the right of a child to be raised by both parents. And here's the question of detailing your commitment to change the rules. Which way is it going? The clues that psychologists, counselors, therapists have taken into account in terms of, I understand, a good attitude towards alternate care? And one last question: do you agree with the statement made by the Minister of National Education that discipline is one of the most important educational measures? This is a statement from the Minister of National Education, with which I strongly disagree. The question is, do you agree? And if you disagree, what will you do to change the attitude of the Minister of National Education? I think, among other things. Such an attitude of the Minister of National Education causes that in the hospital in Garwolin, in the psychiatry department there are criminal punishment systems during the treatment of children with depression, self-inflicted injuries, with suicidal thoughts. Are you familiar with the matter of the hospital in Garvolina, and are you going to take action on this issue? Thank you very much. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u5	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman. [[Child Rights Ombudsman Mikołaj Pawlak: So, Mr. Marshal, you're up to date?]] Yeah, yeah. This is the custom in the Senate that a country that is a guest of the Senate will answer questions directly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u6	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Senator, as regards foster care, I am aware of those provisions which make it difficult to ensure that as many children as possible are placed in institutional care. However, it is not the fault of the elders, for there is an obligation upon them, nor even the guilt of the courts. Here I would be careful to criticize the courts, as they did something to the child, because de facto the decision of fate is assigned to the courts, and the courts often use methods which in this situation secure the child's welfare, e.g. Moving them to a foster home with another old man, in another county, even against the opinion of this old man. That's the way it's supposed to be. The first legislative aspect I have proposed is that it is really one or two sentences to change the custody law that it is enough to exclude the obligation of the elderly to give an opinion before the court is decided, even in a safeguard procedure. It's very simple, and it's gonna keep things from happening that I know are happening. That is, when there are willing foster parents to accept a child, from another voivodship, often a very sick child, with many disabilities that no one else would want, but the governor disagrees and threatens this family that they will not receive any more in the area of consent. What does a court do when it has such a negative opinion? Well, it just joins her ad acta and directs the child to this family, because the child should be in a family that will take care of this child, even very sick, and not in a child's home, as we say casually. And the brightest case that's been going on since 2018, and which, as in the pill, I apologize for that word, as in the lens... as in the lens, is the problem of foster care, is that children from Izdebek, children who have been taken away from parents, paedophile's father, children with disabilities, sick children who would end up in many families, would be separated. I fought to keep these children from being separated. Because you can't separate kids. The right of a child is to be with your siblings, even in such a difficult situation. And in the end, for 10 months, offices, old age, the commune fought not to pay for these children. It was only at my request that the Board of Appeals of the local government gave these children support. And everything was just crashing into money. So that such problems sometimes merge in one place, in one case and on the other side of such a case, you can show where the problem lies. And that problem was pointed out by me. Parental alienation. I agree with the senator, that's the law. a child to contact his parents, both parents, in one form or another, not the right of his parents to contact them. It's not that, I'm not defending that right, I'm looking from the perspective of children, the right of a child to contact both parents. If one parent restricts these contacts, such regulations must be introduced, such as those that will give the child the right to contact both parents. Already now, the family code and the guardian code give the courts such a tool. This provision is perhaps inaccurate, sometimes not fully understood. And always every meeting with family judges, whether at the meetings of family judges' associations, or at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I met with her director and presented these problems. It points out that judges should be trained, firstly, in terms of the wording and implementation of these rules, and secondly, in terms of this substantive, most sensitive settlement of cases. And as for the change, I would like to say that there is a Senate project, there is a government project and, as I said, both of these projects can be carried out together and given to the courts such tools that will eventually make parents realize that their right to contact is not important, only the right of the child to contact both parents. As for the last question and for example today's article in one of the web portals on Garwolin I can say that yes, I have been investigating this case, this particular case for a few weeks, but it is still too early to comment on the details and details. Anyway, it can't be that any form of punishment, and certainly the physical form... This cannot exist in Poland in the 21st century. These educational forms, which were perhaps once accepted, are unacceptable in the 21st century, at a time when Poland and the Polish Ombudsman Act are considered a model for others. These forms are unacceptable. We have to choose, we have to be open enough to choose other forms that can influence our children to be raised. Therefore, in this way the issue of publication, which I have already reported to me, is that the children who are in this centre and in many others, because these methods are repeated, methods concerning so-called. behavioral therapies are repeated in all centers, it's not just about Garwolin, they are in different forms, and most often similar, they are repeated in different centers... This element is examined by me, I collect information and explanations from the leading centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u7	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary, who is in room 217. You're welcome, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry, but your spokesperson hasn't responded to one of the most important...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u8	If you'd like to... I understand that you find the physical punishment unacceptable. It's obvious that the family code forbids it. Except I asked you to refer to the words of the Minister of National Education, who considers discipline to be the most important educational measure. Do you agree with this statement? If not, what are you going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u9	Dear Senator, I have expressed my opinion on this subject and I will not review the statements of Minister Przemysław Czarnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u10	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions. One question is related to the fourth wave of the COVID-19 epidemic, which is approaching Poland. As you know, the development of this epidemic will depend to a large extent on how safe we will be, how much we will be vaccinated, including how much the children who go to schools will be vaccinated. It will also probably depend on whether schools operate normally, whether they operate in a hybrid system or will be closed again and, as your spokesman said, All these negative effects of closing schools will emerge. So I have these questions. Do you want to engage in the promotion of vaccination among children, and what steps have you taken in this direction to protect children from possible school closures with these vaccinations? Or do you maintain your opinion that vaccination of children is some kind of experiment, and you have no intention of making any effort to keep your children safe and your schools operational since September? That's the first question. The second concerns the psych wards for children. Since you mentioned in your report the initiatives that were being taken to improve the level of child care in these departments, I would like to know what steps you have taken to avoid such a situation as during the epidemic that in the Mazowieckie voivodship and in the Podlaskie Voivodship, as you know, the Podlaskie voivodship does not have its branches of child psychiatry, it is, let's call it, supported by the Mazowieckie Voivodship, children were deprived of psychiatric care, as it was limited only to the most severe states, children were not diagnosed, their treatment was not established. What did you do about it? And are you in any contact with the Minister of Health so as not to lead again to such a situation that these troops will be transformed into covid troops and thus psychiatric care for children will fall as it has fallen in the last year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. However, I would like to remind all of you senators That the questions should last a minute. I understand that it's very difficult to fit in a minute, and I approach it quite liberally, but asking questions in four times. - Five times the time spent on questions will simply make us unable to control the agenda. I would very much ask you to be concise with your questions. Please, Mr. Spokesman, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, I'm gonna start with the psych wards and all the psych wards, because that's where we're supposed to start. This is what the reform of Minister Szumowski started before the pandemic, and I think it is appropriate, on our part, to thank everyone for finally starting the reform, i.e. supporting children, building a child support system from the lowest level, so that these most serious cases do not occur, or if they are already happening, that there should be places for children in psychiatric, closed offices, and that early assistance should be provided either at school or in pedagogical and psychological clinics. Unfortunately, at more than 20,000 schools, we now have 11,000 school teachers. It takes a lot of work. Great work also requires training of doctors, children's psychiatrists. Before the pandemic, just before the pandemic there were less than 400 such doctors across Poland. Almost 200 are now being educated, but it is well known that education and medical training take years. And that's something we have to pay attention to. Hence my calls for teachers, teachers, who are in contact with their students on a daily basis, who know where the problem could be, to support them as part of prevention. It was my idea that, for example, the centres of aid for the victims, who have psychologists, educators, should support their hosts, mayors, presidents, elders in order to reach as many children, young people as possible, to show their availability. And I hope that the Justice Fund in this area can support the activities of these centres, which are several hundred... that it could support children at this difficult time. As far as I see them and interpret them, the senator's questions about vaccination of children are common vaccinations are one of the effective forms of disease prevention and eradication. It's one of the most effective forms now. I've always talked about it, and I've never opposed mandatory vaccinations. This was also the case at a meeting last week, at a broad meeting, not one-sided, but wide, where and there were sceptical NGOs, having doubts, and you were Professor Horban, for which I thanked him because he was and could explain. I have never opposed them, and I have expressed it repeatedly, including in the press, for several months. I have always spoken clearly, unambiguously about the need to accept medical knowledge and science as our first and fundamental method of convincing the public to treat, to immunize. Personal beliefs, beliefs or happiness... Because I'm an example of happiness. I've been through COVID pretty hard, I know how difficult it is. I was sick just when my yearbook was vaccinated, and I'm waiting for my doctor to say it's time for vaccination. I've always talked about it. Unfortunately, last week after 5 days after the speech I repeat: after 5 days, some have managed to manipulate the question that I have submitted on behalf of the doubters. What's the spokesperson for, High Izbo? The spokesperson's here for this. The etymology of the word "juror" can be given to speak on behalf of those he represents. And I represent children and parents. And I asked them a question about the things they come to me with. There are parents who would like to inoculate a child, and the child says no or has doubts, and there are children who write to me that they want to inoculate, and the parents disagree because they have a problem with it, and there is a conflict. This kind of thing is affecting my office. This is the role of the Ombudsman to ask, and the role of specialists, experts, for whom I thank you very sincerely, is to clarify this. We're supposed to convince and explain, not force. That's what we're going to do. all of us as public institutions. I didn't express my private opinion at the team meeting last week, I was just passing on questions of doubt and thank you for answering the questions of the professor. The child vaccination case is not yet resolved by scientists. When this happens, when we have the document, the certainty, the guarantee from those who will certify it, then the situation will change, then it will be voluntary to decide on vaccination. That's what we're going to do, to convince our parents to make an informed decision together with their children. Maybe one of you will ask me if you'll inoculate your son. It's a question about me, and I'm going to answer here as Santa Pawlak, not as a spokesperson. I'm going to answer that question now, in advance. My son has a sufficient age, one that allows him to talk to him, to tell him what the positive aspects of getting vaccinated will be, to tell him that if he gets vaccinated, it might protect him from his grandfather's severe illness, both grandmothers, other people closest to him. I will also tell him about difficult situations, because children hear what is happening, and we will make a decision together. That's my personal opinion. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, your private opinion. And the public, the spokesperson's statement, was to pass on the question from the doubters. That's my job. Unacceptable, misleading, confusing and destroying this great effort to convince society to immunize, to take care of its health, is to forge reality by pulling out a piece of a sentence and putting it as a thesis. This is actually lying manipulation, this is unreliable. That's what I'm against, because unfortunately, it's affected... that could jeopardize the safety of parts of society. I'm asking you to take the lead together, not force it. So much for vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u14	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask the senator, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Spokesman, I have two questions. The first question concerns cross-border cases. Every now and then, public opinion alarms information that there is a very big problem with cross-border matters, of course, in two ways. Sometimes the child's well-being requires that the child be with his parents and sometimes not. There is a famous Belgian case where, despite the judgment of the Belgian court, a child is not handed down to his father, even though his mother is dead. And the child has the right to communicate with his biological parents. How do you behave in such matters? How many cases are there a year? How many such interventions do you take, how do you react, what are the effects, and how long does it take? That's the first question. And second question, I'll ask them quickly. There was such a party, the birthday of Radio Maryja, where Mr. Tadeusz Rydzyk said: "The fact that you have sinned? He has sinned. Who doesn't have temptation? Let him show himself. You were there, and you were applauding. I would like to ask about this situation, not about why you applauded, but about how much you started proceedings in connection with information about pedophilia in the Church in 2020. What were your actions? Did you even intervene, e.g. After this party, pointing out that those words were wrong? That's very delicately said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u16	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Marshal! Cross-border conduct. It can be estimated that there are about 200 cases of this type per year. That's what it looks like now, after the reform almost three years ago. Not all cases I know as a spokesman, because the courts are not obliged to notify me of such cases. Although most of the proceedings ask me to take care of the case, they often ask for support. And here's the basic methodological error made by the applicants. Well, they often identify the child's welfare with their own good, and this is often not the same. I often don't take a stand, I don't take a stand on any of the sides that write to me, on the side of a guardian or a parent. I'm on the baby's side, and I'm looking into the baby's whereabouts. So that's about 200 cases. Effects? The effects are. The sensitivity of family courts, these specialised courts, to so-called issues is increasing. Parental abductions. But they are de facto identical with Polish family conflicts. The difference is often only the matter of culture or the nationality of the second guardian, but to the rest of these matters are almost identical. What are the other effects? Last year, especially at the end of the year, there were, apparently, 5 cases in which, after the second instance's ruling, I filed a cassation complaint and, earlier, a request to suspend the enforceability of those judgments, because in my opinion, the courts did not apply one of the provisions of the Convention on Abduction. And we managed to stop the immediate release of the child abroad until the cassation complaints were resolved. These cassation actions are taken into account by the Supreme Court, so the Ombudsman has considerable effectiveness here. Hence, there is a growing belief that I am actually paying attention to the welfare of children, and not necessarily to the individual welfare of one parent or guardian. Your marshal pointed out the case. These questions are repeated for another year, because lately Senator Libicki also asked this question. It concerns this girl and her contacts with her father who is a Belgian citizen. In this case, I personally seek to ensure that, despite the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, which secure the stay of the child in Poland until other cases are considered... In this regard, I seek that the child should have contact with the parent regardless of all of this. My office is available to both carers as a meeting place. This meeting was supposed to take place last week, but one of the parties started claiming too many rights to this meeting, and I was talking about protecting this child, not using the meetings for trial purposes, just meeting without attorneys. Well, I'm afraid I won't allow attorneys to see you like this. So that in each of these cases And in many of them, I also act personally, and I always seek agreement. I think the plenipotentiaries and the senators will agree with me that the best verdict is worse than the worst settlement. And we always have to make sure that the children have the best contact with both parents so that it doesn't come to what we call parental abductions. As for the other question of your marshal, my actions speak for themselves. I even accelerated the activities of various kinds of institutions, whether they are prosecutors' offices, whether it is the CBI, for example in terms of the formation of so-called. a pedophile committee. It clearly shows how much is done in my office and by me personally to combat this disgusting crime. And as for the various media events that occur in all media, I will not comment on these things, because my presence was for viewers and listeners of Trwam and Radio Maryja. And I thank them cordially for doing so many good things for so many years. And action to combat crimes, all crimes, abuse, rape or murder, towards children, is always my priority. Thank you very much. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u18	You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u19	Mr. Spokesman, you haven't answered my question. I meant cases of pedophilia in the Church and how many cases in the past year... e.g. How many cases have you taken care of? And the second question you didn't answer either: after this event, did you even write a letter to Mr. Rydzyk?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u20	Dear Marshal, as I have pointed out... Plus, two days after the meeting, there was a broad statement from the director's father in this area. It was the result of various procedures. In which he commented on his statement. And that's where I'd end my speech. What kind of action? It was the committee's work and every criminal case that came to me. I do not distinguish between the victims, I do not distinguish between the perpetrators, because the issue of occupation is a secondary issue, although now, of course, it is loud. However, from the data I have, and they are widely available at the Ministry of Justice, it appears that, for example, these sexual offences are 500 and 800 per year in the last 15 years. From the data that are available After all, not everyone has them, or even the accused or the convicted or the imprisoned does not always give their profession It appears that from this professional group, of which your marshal says... that there were 2 and 5 cases in these 500 and 800 cases in this group, and the others were in other groups. The others are the ones we hear about. A degenerate in Łódź was sentenced to 15 years in prison, reduced from 25 years, for first brutally raped and then murdered, crushing the head, a four-year-old. These are cases to be stigmatized, cases of this kind of gentle conduct. None of them have the right to happen, and as far as any of them are concerned, I refer the matter to law enforcement. And as for the number, Mrs. Marshal, I will answer in writing, because this is the data that I will, of course, be able to extract from the computer system. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I will ask for them very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u21	I ask you to ask Senator Michael Sewerinski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u22	Thank you. Minister, there is still a matter which I always ask the Ombudsman, namely the so-called. adoption abroad. What's your opinion on this? I know positive and negative opinions. The negative thing is that a country of this size, with such potential and culture as Poland, should not agree to spend its children abroad, and then completely lose control. Can you tell us what kind of solution you see in this case, given that you can adopt children, there may be adoptions like this? Which in Poland, in short, nobody wants, because they are sick, disabled, etc.? How do you see this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u23	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u24	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Adoption cases can be said to be dealt with in one way. It is possible to point out a bit too slow court proceedings, because these cases concern children and should be dealt with efficiently. The whole system of adoption centres, which they consider, also requires some action, because there are differences in these procedures. Of course, these most difficult matters, as the Marshal himself pointed out, concern children who might not want to be adopted in Poland and are therefore put into foreign adoption. The result is the same for adoption in Poland and abroad, i.e. children receive completely new personal data. It is also true that abroad as a country, we lose any control over them, over what is happening in these families. It happened a few years ago, when I was still in the Ministry of Justice, such very difficult cases as the fact that siblings adopted abroad, to the United States, went there, unfortunately, to paedophile families. And there were problems and questions: who carried out this procedure, why it was not noticed and where the family came from. So, in fact, change, correction requires verification of families who want to accept children. I would be skeptical if I could completely prevent this kind of adoption, but during the reform, the changes in full adoption, the adoption of children will certainly be overcome by such cases... The point is not to have the kind of situation that took place several years ago, when children in the course of the proceedings concerning them had in their opinions indicated that they should not be adopted, that there is contact with some other family in Poland, that it is possible to maintain these bonds, and then suddenly during the proceedings there was a change of these opinions and adoptions of children abroad. I agree that there is a need to do this in order to harmonise adoption procedures, perhaps through the introduction of a single institution. It may also be a spokesperson for the rights of the child to some extent. Which before the final decision of the court was such a voice for that court which is entrusted with this authority and defender of the child at that last moment. Perhaps she would be a defender who would support such a situation, but such a last element of verification should be introduced into the adoption system in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u25	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have two questions. One is detailed, related to the report. In the context of the comments relating to the proposed legislative changes and practices in education and education, there was a comment on how to regulate the hours of assistance given to the child's teacher. The question is what's going on here. If it's not... This is a rather detailed question, so if not now, then please reply in writing later. The second, also related to education and upbringing, is due to the appalling public opinion of going to schools of representatives of organizations, but also associations that represent really... no, they act politically, although they are associations connected with justice. These are attempts to indoctrinate children, both ideological and sexual issues. Do you think there are some legal changes that are necessary here, or do you just need to enforce the existing law more effectively to protect our children? I mean, it's not mine anymore, but the children of the Poles. Before such aggressive organizations and, above all, provide basic constitutional law, such that parents have an impact on the upbringing of children, not, for example, as in this case, a school principal who agrees to do so?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! For the sake of detail, I will allow the senator to answer in writing. As for the organisation of schools, I believe that there is a need for a reform, which Mr Przemysław Czarnek mentioned yesterday. We know excellent non-governmental institutions, such as Boy Scouts, Boy Scouts, who have had an education element in their charter for 100 years. And we all know that this element of parental support, because parents' right to raise their children in the family is their fundamental right... Well, at least the Boy Scouts do it brilliantly. And there are two concepts to be distinguished here. Education, which concerns education, is the law and constitutional obligation of the State, while in the field of education the school is to support parents in education, not to replace them completely. Parents have priority, they have the right And it's also a constitutional right. To raise children according to their worldview. And in these very subjects, which the senator mentioned, there is often a dispute or some interference with this right of upbringing. I agree that school should be from education. There can't be unlawful interference in the children's upbringing without parents knowing, because it's the parents who know if their children are sensitive enough to talk about things, know who they can talk to, and how they can talk about things. There must be no interference with this right of upbringing by organisations that have not provided information to parents. Therefore, the legislative proposal presented by the Minister, which aims to clear the situation, to prevent such cases from happening, that the school is closed to education and not to other subjects... I agree with that. Reinforcing parents' rights, parents' advice, parents' support, for example by curators... It doesn't have to be a parole officer. It's about someone who's verifying these aspects, let's call them educational, because they're defined in different ways. This should depend as much as possible on the decision of the largest group of parents. And in this respect, I support this project. I hope he can sort things out. The school is from education, parents from upbringing, and the educational aspect of the school is to be consulted with parents. That's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u29	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Benjamin Godyla, who is in room 217. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u30	Mr. Ombudsman, my question concerns foster care. I have a question about statistics, data from last year. Have foster families arrived or not, and if so, are those who have arrived related or alien families? What have you done in this regard as a spokesman, as you have shown since the last report we had a year ago? That's the first question. Another question. Doesn't the rules that are blocking the possibility... Here's what I'm gonna say. My wife and I made this family a young boy, a young boy. In the beginning, as you know, it was that everyone had to be trained, to have all the certificates, but during... As far as I know, the rules have changed in 2016 or 2017 and now every 2 years such a family has to submit opinions from a psychologist and a family doctor. I have a question. If a psychologist says that, I don't know, I don't have the motivation to do this job, they're gonna take that baby away from me? To me, it's so... Of course, this should have been checked earlier. But if, in the middle of a psychologist or a family doctor, if I say so... Will such a 12- or 15-year-old child be taken away from this family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator, as for the statistics, let me give you the information we have in writing. As regards legislative changes and the procedure, firstly, the search for families, secondly, the appointment and support of foster parents, these provisions have actually changed. The change concerning the periodic examination or the presentation of opinions by parents was due to various types of abuse. There have been situations. For example, if I recall correctly, in Pomerania That in some foster families there was abuse, harming children, the most tragic situation. And that's where these changes came from. As regards the revision of the legislation, the High Chamber has a legislative initiative. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child is deprived of such an initiative. My activity in this field last year, but also in the current one, because this is one of the most important subjects, was to propose appropriate solutions. And I've been giving these suggestions... I will also give my proposals to the Parliamentary Members of the Sejm in writing to the senator. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u33	Of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u34	You didn't answer me that middle question about what you just did as a spokesman for these families to come.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u36	Dear Senator, the Ombudsman's activities include: in general speeches and, for example, in mentioning such cases on various occasions. This activity, through the support of foster families, of applying for State decorations to the President... Someone might say it's a small thing, but to show in a given environment that foster care is service, it's a mission, it's sensitivity and love, that's what I've done. For example, a few weeks ago, in Leszno I decorated a foster family, both of them, not only a surrogate mom, but also a man who, together with his wife, forms a surrogate family. And I thank the senator for sharing this with us and for creating this form of support for children. This is the activity we need to do and we need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u37	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Ombudsperson, on 16 June this year, the committee, which I have the honour to chair, discussed the petition of 20 NGOs, headed by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, concerning the need for Poland to ratify the III Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this petition, the authors argue that the protocol can make a conventional system of protection of children's rights much more effective, which will directly translate into the fate of children. And I'd like to know why you and your subordinates didn't bother in such an important case. You've talked a lot about your involvement. I'd like to know why no one was at our committee meeting. Let me add that most of the members are from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u39	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u40	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, we have a calendar of various activities and many responsibilities. As for the substance of the case and the Additional Protocol itself, I would like to point out that among the 180 countries that have ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it seems that 'Cause of the larger ones that haven't ratified, it's probably just the United States. Only a few dozen have entered into this optional protocol. I'm not gonna talk about a particular number, but as far as I can remember, I don't think it's more than 30. I believe that the system of support and analysis, verification of protection, including judicial, of children's rights in Poland is sufficient. For example, recently supplemented with complaints, the extraordinary system of the Supreme Court Act is impinging this system and allows For example, cassation complaints in so-called cases. Parental kidnappings provide all these rights. And in my opinion, there is no need for this protocol to be ratified by Poland and for children's affairs to be dealt with by those institutions which, as I said, have not been accepted by the vast majority of countries which have ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u41	Thank you very much. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u42	One sentence. Mr. Spokesman, I'm not questioning... I didn't even put the thesis here, whether it's right or wrong. I can only point out that the ombudsman has exactly the opposite... or his representatives. . who have been bothered, even though they probably have the same taut calendar. I'm asking you why you didn't send anybody to the Senate committee if you couldn't come, so that what you said at the moment would sound like our committee meeting. There are several representatives of important national authorities who ignore this House in an unprecedented way. And I'd like to know why you didn't send anyone. That was my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, there are many, very many meetings on various issues, with many agendas that are also happening now, on which I am not. I'm sure the petition committee will get my position in writing, as requested, that position will be forwarded. And that's what happens, that's the way we work, that sometimes we can't guarantee our presence, which doesn't mean... In the case of the High House, however, I always come at the invitation of the marshal and the heads of committee, whenever possible. And the fact that the other organs either go to the hearing or don't stand up... Last week at the Parliamentary Group meeting. There was no representative of the ombudsman, and that's probably nothing to do with it. This meeting has probably been followed in the office and in the area of civil rights, as well as the position of the Ombudsman will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u45	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Józef Łyczak in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Ombudsperson, I would like to go back to the topic of the institutions called contractually, so you also said. The children's homes. This is a relic of the past, this infamous relic, the truth, with which in a free Poland all governments wanted to do something so that the children's homes would simply cease to exist. I'm interested in what you're doing or what you're going to do to make it happen. Because even the best crew in children's homes, made up of people with a great heart, is unable to create the atmosphere that the child has, in an adoptive family or in a foster family. This is very important, because several thousand children are staying in children's homes. That's why I'd like to hear what you've been doing so far and what you're going to do. And possibly what he's going to do on this subject and what the government of the United Right is doing, because it's been a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. [[Ombudsperson for Children's Rights Mikołaj Pawlak: Dear Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]] Excuse me, I'm just gonna remind you that you're not a representative of the government, you're a representative of your office. So the questions to him as a representative of the government or as a representative of a political party are inappropriate, because he represents the office here. And we, as senators, judge how you perform this office. In other words, it is an office independent of the government and political parties. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. What's more, I've never been in any party, I'm not and I don't know if I will. As the senator said, in fact, calling these facilities the homes of a child... the homes of a child are a relic. Those names, the red signs on them... Whatever we do with these names, whether they're a foster care or a baby's house or whatever, it's a secondary issue, because it's an important building where... For example, in Łódź at ul. There are dozens of kids in a team building like this. And technically, the city authorities may have divided those workers into individual new units, but these children are still there, just like 40 and 30 years ago, which I remember, because I lived next door to this place and walked by it... It's the same there all the time, so far. Yeah, even the employees... Thank you so much for giving your heart so many years. Because to come, to take care of, you can say, not your biological children, all the time new, imported from the hospital, from a broken family, from a violent family, this is a great service. And for that, thank you very much to all the employees. What do I do? I will pass on to the senator the concrete solutions that I can give you, to the senators, to the parliamentarians who have the legislative initiative, to pass on and then to ask you to come into force in the best way possible. And as a spokesman speaking on behalf of those who do not have such a media voice, such a public message, that is, on behalf of the children who are there, I call for families, mothers, fathers. It was that May-June time I was talking about. Mother's Day, Child's Day, Father's Day, Replacement Parenting Day, when we celebrated for four days... I hope it's some kind of heart. We found that there were more families who wanted to take the baby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u49	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u50	Do you know the scale of sending your children back from abroad to Poland, to your grandmother, to your aunt? Sometimes it's formal, sometimes informal. The second question is, do you know the recurring situation that children are often transferred from school to school without giving any valid reason at school? It's just that the parent wishes and moves the child to different classes, and I'm talking about primary schools in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Dear Senator, when it comes to, as you call it, sending children away, for many years, especially since the entry into the Union and the large migration of our citizens across Europe, such problems have happened. There were parents leaving for work. Half of poverty when it's nearby and they can come back for weekends. Worse in a situation where children were cared for by a family member, often grandparents. Unregulated situations have occurred. Yet, at times a child requires health care or psychological care or any other care. Unfortunately, there have been situations where such cases took place without the involvement of an institution which is pre-destined to do so, i.e. a family court. Sometimes there were notaries who signed this kind of power of attorney. These power of attorneys are devoid of legal importance, but unfortunately this often resulted in difficult relations between children and parents. Here I can appeal to my parents in this regard not to leave their children behind, so that this contact with their parents, despite often material needs, these typically professional ones, would be. But as for the scale, forgive me, I don't think there's even... Of course, I'm gonna ask the family ministry and the justice department, but this kind of data, as far as I know, hasn't been collected so far. When it comes to the transfer of children to schools, these problems often arise when it comes to rewriting, because this is the way it is often said, children are at the root of a family conflict. And they happen. There are dozens of cases in my office every year. But here is a deeper root of the problem. Namely, parents often move the child to one or another school without the knowledge of the other parent or contrary to his knowledge. But the choice of the place where a child takes education is left to parents, legal guardians. It is the responsibility of the authorities of the State, in this case municipalities as leading bodies, to provide the child with access to education. So that here the uncles guard it, because it may turn out that the child does not participate in the education system and then the appropriate actions are taken. But when it comes to the mere transfer of children to schools, most often, in my opinion, this is the cause of family conflict, and then there is really a need for interference and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u53	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u54	Mr. Spokesman, first of all, your general assessment... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm just reminding you that now is the time for questions...]] Good. [[The debate will be on in a minute.]] Sure. So let's think of it as a question. Do you think it is appropriate to draw up a report in the form of a collection of your letters or letters to you? Don't you think it would be better for you to write, in particular cases or in the segments that you deal with, the situation of protecting the rights of the child looks like that? That's the first question. The next one concerns vaccination. Did you and your office organize any promotion of vaccination among children and young people? Well, you said you were in favour of voluntary vaccination, but for voluntary vaccination, that's something that needs to be encouraged. Young people can already get vaccinated. Did your office organize or intend to promote vaccination on COVID-19? And tell me about one more thing, another, but appalling about pedophilia. Did you or your office try to work with the committee called on these cases? Because pedophilia primarily affects children and adolescents. Did your office try to contact the agendas of the Episcopate of the Catholic Church? There's an agenda in there that's working on it, because it's a matter of And it raises the biggest controversy, of course, this is a terrible situation. Children and young people operating in the Catholic Church. Did you handle this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u55	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u56	Dear Marshal, High Izbo. Mr Marshal, as regards the formula for presenting information to Parliament, first of all, the information about the Ombudsman's activities is, it can be said, the author's form, which is not regulated in any provision, nor is it regulated by the methodology in law studies. Secondly, I can say that 95% of this form is exactly the same as the one used by my predecessor in previous years, except 'Cause it didn't add up, it just increased the number of cards. signature of cases. Thus, general speeches are the activities of the Ombudsman and in each section, in each chapter concerning the individual rights of the child. The right to life, to health, to upbringing in the family, to education, to social rights in each of these aspects concrete information about the activities undertaken, areas concerning education, education, security, judicial matters, international affairs are included. As far as vaccination is concerned, complementing my statement and correcting the manipulations of last week, I will say: the best way to promote vaccination is to provide reliable information. And that's the kind of information I'm asking for, I'm trying. As I said, I myself will be informed, while promoting it, if we can call it that, I will gladly participate, because this form, or vaccinations, is one of the most effective ones, although, as the press has written today... But here I'm going to say, unfortunately, absolutely... In many cases, we take Australia as an example, because it is safe, there are no diseases or deaths, but the Australians have not been implanted, only 14% Australians are vaccinated. They have taken a different form, and unfortunately now they are suffering from it. This is wrong and I say from this speaker that I would not want this form to be accepted here. So in any form that will involve reliable information when vaccinations are allowed for a wider group of children and when voluntary, I will be happy to participate. I also expressed my personal view on this matter. About the pedophile crime... Well, it basically applies to children, i.e. those under the age of 15. Here, the Ombudsman's activities, which are now permitted by law, are primarily contacts with law enforcement authorities, because the first ones who have to solve and de facto prevent them, are prosecutors and services which in this regard They're working. So that the first and biggest contacts, mine and my office, are contacts with law enforcement. Institutions that also aim to eradicate this crime are as useful and positive as possible. And like I said last year, for the uprising of the paedophile committee... I've used every means available to me to make it work as quickly as possible. So we can say that we are dealing with these matters together. And if the High House would like to support a project that I also passed to the High House But I'd be happy to hand it over once more to the Ombudsman to supplement his powers as criminal... It would be a closed catalogue so it wouldn't be all the crimes against children, but the heaviest ones. Homicide, serious injury, part of paedophile crimes, the heaviest... The point is, in these cases, that the Ombudsman may, in any case of which he would have known, appear on his own behalf. And very kindly to support such a project. This will support the whole system of support, helping children, and certainly the sensitivity of those who are considering these matters. Because, of course, judges, prosecutors... They take care of these things, but when we see them, for example. 15 years sentence for a degenerate, for a paedophile, a criminal, it's really blood in the veins boiling. And it must be resisted, so that the voice of the child, the voice of this little man in such a situation, also for prevention purposes, sounds. And it won't be until the spokesperson's powers are in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u57	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski and Senator Benjamin Godyla. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman is a constitutional single-member state authority to uphold the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and in other provisions. Its task is to protect the child from violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralization, negligence and mistreatment. The Ombudsman's rights in the performance of his or her duties must always be based on the child's well-being. Meanwhile, the choice and activity of the current Ombudsman from the outset raises legitimate controversy and concerns, particularly in the environments dealing with the real help of children and young people. As has already been pointed out several times, Article 1 has been infringed under the selection procedure itself. 1 paragraph 4 point 5 of the Ombudsperson's Act, which indicates that a candidate is required to have at least 5 years of experience in working with or for children. Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, the current spokesperson for the rights of the child, had no such experience, as he specialized in his legal practice mainly in divorce cases. Nor did he receive support from any of the major NGOs, and the activists of these organisations, like the members of the city youth councils, asked the senators directly to reject this controversial candidacy. In the year to which the report relates, all concerns and reservations previously expressed have been confirmed and the Ombudsman's actions have repeatedly shocked the public. In his comments, he often showed gross incompetence, completely contradicting current medical knowledge or scientific achievements on the basis of child psychology or psychiatry. This revealed, for example, an excuse for violence in the form of physical punishments, e.g. suggesting that the spanking is not a form of such violence, as well as an attempt to interfere preposterously with the school's student classification process, i.e. an appeal to raise your grades by one degree. It was also scandalous for the Ombudsman to deny the need for sexual or anti-discrimination education and to simplify and vulgarise the subject of such activities. Moreover, the spokesperson, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, consistently participates in discrediting non-heteronormative persons through his actions and statements, thereby allowing acts of exclusion of children of such orientation, e.g. from a community of peers. However, the most important thing is that, as a spokesperson for the rights of the child, you have led to the ideology of this very important institution for children and young people, which is the office of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Wanting to introduce legal protection for the conceived child, you still often forget or deliberately ignores them - about the needs of children living in different environments and working in pathological social relationships. Against this background, there are some fundamental questions that I would like to ask now. What did the Ombudsman's office do for the victims of pedophilia in the Church? Why does the Ombudsman applaud the speech of the director of Radio Maryja, who justifies and minimizes this practice? Why is the child's rights spokesperson doing nothing to effectively support the development of child psychiatry and the professional psychological care of children in schools in view of the increasing number of juvenile suicides? Why was nothing done on the part of the Ombudsman to speed up adoption procedures? When did the Ombudsman defend minors who were discriminated against in schools for publicly demonstrating his views? Questions of this kind could be multiplied, but the problems they deal with cannot be solved through an ideological masquerade in parliament or separated from the reality of speeches and announcements. No report, even the best prepared, will mask the gross incompetence and hostile attitude towards those groups that do not correspond ideologically to the environment from which the spokesman originates. There is no acceptance of us for actions that not only do not support children, but even turn out to be harmful and discriminatory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the most important thing for the Ombudsman? We have heard that saving the lives of unborn children and those who are on the edge for whom life has become unbearable. What about the ones in the middle? What about the exercise of the right to free learning and health safety? We need preparation for the future, not a constant study of the past. But I'm gonna focus on what was most important. This public presentation of life protection demonstrated on the T-shirt... This picture of the womb with the child was used, although it had a completely opposite meaning for the author of Jekaterina Głazkowa, who created it with the message of joyful motherhood. We all remember this massive and very aggressive spectacle in public space for months, which the final culmination was on the seymoral platform. Who was that supposed to convince, and for what? Where are women and their rights in all this? Shouldn't we call a ombudsman? Another thing. About all the children who have psychological and psychological support... the fact that a 24-hour phone has been running that supports children and young people... Over 8,000 calls have been received. Did you ask yourself why so many children are unhappy? I think that because they are dead tired of school nightmares, overloaded with boring and overloaded program, surrounded by an increasingly oppressive environment, frustrated adults are in constant dispute with their loved ones and neighbors and have no time, or perhaps skills, to be happy parents. The fact that parents have been receiving money support for several years, which is a huge financial injection and should order the family's functioning, does not mean that in a crisis situation, children are ready to participate safely in such a difficult period as the pandemic... They did not have the opportunity to participate freely and safely in remote learning. You might ask yourself: why? What did the spokesperson do at the time? On 3 April, you sent a general speech to the Ministry of Education, in which, yes, you raised the issue of not being able to participate in remote science, but in this speech you criticized mainly teachers who, in your opinion, are conducting classes in the wrong way. At that time, you were told that many parents were criticizing teachers who could not take up effective remote teaching. You were talking about the need to get back to school as soon as possible, and you're questioning vaccinations. The fact that at the children's festival we organized, the anti-vacciners approached me and asked: why are you promoting a fatal threat to our children? If such a procedure is followed, that one minister is recognised and should not be reviewed and otherwise a discussion is opened with the Minister of Health, although all the recommendations that should ensure the safety of children and the freedom to go back to school are confirmed... Raising such controversy does not encourage parents, teachers, the whole environment to speak with one voice. Such schizophrenia in the statements of the Ombudsman, who is unable to deal uniformly with health and education issues, raises my greatest concern. The phone of trust you were talking about today, which I read as a victory for your office, is, as I remind you, a parallel being, because for 12 years the Foundation has been providing Children with Strength and supports a 24-hour phone of trust and social media. They gave over 1 million 300,000 advice, gave support to the children who needed it. In 2018, when you became a spokesperson, this foundation no longer had funding from the Ministry of Education, but despite the call of the Child Helpline organisation bringing together 145 countries with almost 180 calls of trust, you did not support it. However, the foundation still kept this call of trust from its own resources, which it gained from people who realized how important it was. Mr. Ombudsman, what is most important to me is that we understand that the child is not a dependent being, the child has a right to respect. I would like to remind you that it was the Office of the Ombudsman that reminded us of what is most important, and therefore the right of the child to respect. It's about the publishing house where Korczak's thoughts are found. I want to say to you, Mr Ombudsperson, at the end, what I think has not lost any importance and has not become old: 'Attention: contemporary life is shaped by a strong brute, homo rapax; he dictates methods of action. The lie is his concessions to the weak, his worship for the old man, his equality of women and his kindness to the child. There's a homeless feeling wandering around. Cinderella. And it is the children who are princes of affection, poets and thinkers. Respect, if not humility for the white, bright, immaculate, holy child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u61	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that taking up the role of a child's spokesperson after his predecessor's period of activity, who for many years was a great friend of children, who built enormous trust not only when it comes to children, but also about parents, families, institutions, offices, which were extremely active, it is difficult because this bar has been suspended very highly. I think it doesn't help, either, that despite the education you have, and I have no doubt that these are absolutely sufficient qualifications to take up this function... that there is no experience of working with children, with families in this everyday life. Legal personality and personality of a person who is shaped in contact with a child is completely different, that is different sensitivity, different empathy and different approach to the subject. This is what the time of the epidemic has imposed on you, as you have started your report, an extraordinary time, a difficult time, as well as a time of challenges for you, Mr Ombudsperson, because extraordinary times require extraordinary decisions. I do not see such decisions in this report. The timing of extraordinary decisions is also a time of challenges for the leader, and yet you, as a spokesman, are such a leader in matters relating to children. And it's up to you, and it's up to you whether or not you're the leader who's gonna shape and prevent a certain phenomenon, whether you're right or wrong. We are talking here primarily about health issues, because I specialize in this topic. As you know, the problem with mental disorders was a huge problem here. Some of the children who were in their homes couldn't handle online education at all. Domestic, family, and even peer violence were often involved. It's all caused emotional disorders, mental disorders and depression. The rate of depression among children increased by 44%. All of this required enormous, powerful action to counter it. Did you do it? Have you taken at least one initiative, Mr. Spokesman, as the spokesperson? You were here, of course, talking about a running hotline. Glory to that. But it kind of reminds me of telemedicine, which also worked and which is very helpful, but it doesn't solve the issue. You've been telling me that there's been an increase in the availability of health care services. Health benefits are a duty, so I don't know, I don't understand... Maybe you'll pass on some bigger specifics here, because there's really no specifics here. However, this support and these initiatives of yours as the leader of the children absolutely miss me here. The second topic, also related to health, is the issue of vaccination. Mr. Ombudsperson, you should be at the head of this peleton, which promotes, which educates and even urges you to vaccinate yourself. Even at a time when the vaccine was not yet allowed for children, it was through families, through parents, that you also had the right to act and encourage vaccination. If the parents are vaccinated, the child will be protected. These are the essentials that I have seen in the area of health. And what I absolutely miss. I also think that if it were such a normal year and you would report all your activities, maybe I would say, well, okay, the office works, you deal with different issues, it's probably better, maybe worse, but it's okay. But it wasn't a normal year. This has not been a normal year, and as I said, these actions should be particularly strengthened. That is why, in addition to this report, and in addition to all that you have said... Well, I'm surprised you ruined your own image. What you did in the Seym, the performance with the T-shirt, was unacceptable, Mr. Spokesman. I was embarrassed when I saw it. You have the right to have your views, but you have no right to make such speeches in public because you represent the office and you are its leader. I also don't agree with what you said here, explaining the vaccination case. Mr. Ombudsperson, that sounded at least bizarre. You were talking about an experiment. If you've been misunderstood today, you've been trying to undo it. You should have said it out loud. Or maybe you just misspelled that sentence. Well, it sounded bad, it's done a lot of damage. You must be at the forefront of knowledge, science. And with such simple sentences, encourage those who hesitate, who lack knowledge and who would gladly inoculate themselves if they felt the support of the institution you are directing. In conclusion, I would like to say that this whole report... I will say this: my assessment of the report is a critical assessment. But this is not a critical assessment for what you have done and not for what you have written in this report, but for what you have not done and should have done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u63	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! While you have written a rather thick book, I must say that there were five other spokespersons before you, and this whole report, which is put here, if it were to be condensed, is not really anything left of it. You've taken the office of a child's attorney, so what you should do on a daily basis is to respect the rights of the child. You should defend your child in any situation. I have a feeling you don't feel it at all. A child according to... I hope you know the Children's Rights Convention, the Child's Rights Code. In this code it is clear that the child is not the property of the parents, that the child is a human being, only a small one. What parents must ensure for this child is that they dress them up, feed them, secure their existence and set a good example. But that doesn't mean they have to raise them in their image. When a parent drinks, does the child drink? When a parent smokes, is that baby supposed to smoke? As a parent is a musician, is this child supposed to be a musician? No, this baby's not a chair at home, it's not furniture, it's just a little man to listen to. And you should be standing guard, defending this child from your parents as well. I'm not talking about pathological parents, but I'm talking about parents who can destroy a child, telling him to go the way that doesn't play in his soul, because he doesn't want to be, and he's never going to be, because Dad is a lawyer, and he's not a gifted lawyer and he wants to be a painter. You can't... You should... I say it responsibly. Forty-six years I've been guarding the life of a child. And here I have a huge grudge against you, too. And in writing, tell me what you've done for the children. 'Cause you're in favour of it. With the lethal defects that come into this world for terrible torment, they get tired of these few days or a few weeks and die. What have you done for them if you're here to protect the children? Nothing, I'm afraid. There's nothing in this report about it, and I've been through it. What have you done for children who are not treated in Poland by methods recognised in Western countries because there is no funding for this? I'm pretty sure you're watching some media, you're probably reading some newspapers, and you've seen hundreds, thousands of requests for money, even on CAR-T cells, a method that's used in Cape Hope. 40 senators, including many of the Senators of Law and Justice sitting here, signed a statement begging Prime Minister Morawiecki to introduce a refund of this method. 1 million 300 thousand • what kind of family Is it going to carry it? We have managed to save the lives of nine children by this method until now. There is life on one scale, there is death on the other, there is no third scale, and the medical technology assessment agency dared to write something that should be used alternative therapy, or death, because there is no alternative, because these children have already used everything. Did you help these children in any way? No, the people of good faith helped who put together and gave that money to these nine children. The longest child has lived since March last year, all the others live without a trace of disease. And there are many such children with rare diseases. You must fight with full conviction for the welfare of the child and put them first, not fear that you will come after the Minister or Father Tadeusz Rydzyk. You can come up against the whole world for the sake of the child, and you should have this attitude, not any other, because this child should be always and everywhere most important. Hit your breasts and tell me if that's what happened. You could follow the example of Minister Mark Michalak. It really was a man who was willing to fight everyone for the welfare of a child who did a lot. The children loved him, loved him, invited him. As my predecessors have already said, the pandemic does not justify you. She's accusing you because the kids needed you in the pandemic. Where have you been? Have you been to any hospital? Have you ever been to the ward where COVID infected children are located and the ones that have PIMS, which is the pocovid syndrome? How many times have you helped such children, and where have you come from? Answer all of this in writing. I didn't ask you those questions in a series of questions. Why? It's because you've been wrapping things around all the time, and when you squeeze it out, there's nothing left. I'm very negative about what you did for the kids. You could have done... I'm not saying you didn't do anything, but you could have done a hundred thousand times more and really put more heart and empathy into it. I expect another... In fact, your entire term of office is, I would say, nothing in terms of fighting for children's rights. Your statements about the vaccinations, as my previous speaker has already said, I can't repeat them, they're just horrible. You know perfectly well that vaccinations have already been registered for children since they were 12. There's research, there's nothing to discuss. Registration shall end for the period of 6 and 12 years. Are you still going to say that maybe it's an experiment that it's not known what? You gotta get the kids to vaccinate. I'm sure you've read that a five-year-old child died in the United States of America because of a Delta coritomus. It was a perfectly healthy baby. There's gonna be more and more of them. At the moment, new diseases, Delta infections affect people under the age of thirty-nine, i.e. young people, and children. And it's not true that kids never catch the virus or that they only catch it when they have other diseases. No. The world can also leave a child who is completely healthy. Mr. Ombudsperson, please gain more vigor, empathy and willingness to help the child, against everything and against everything, bearing in mind Only the child's well-being as the most important thing. If you don't do that, you'll be the worst advocate of children's rights in history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! What I'm trying to say is that I support every senator's voice that came before me, but not to duplicate what's already been said... Continuing with the subject that Mr Borusewicz started, I would like to say two words about the draft report you have prepared. It's a duty to you. You said it was the form of this report that was written. For us, this is information about what your work looks like, what your everyday life looks like. I imagined that in this report I would first see a diagnosis. I do not hide that there are some passages about what problems children face every day, but I really miss what it would be like to work on providing them with safety, health, education and the future, what directions and directions you see, what actions you have taken as an advocate, or will be taking to ensure that they do so. In this report are mainly general speeches, reprinted, copied. I understand that they must, of course, be, but it is not enough for me and, as I appear, not just for me, also for other senators. I want to know and see, to read about the effects of your general speeches, to know the answer and response of the recipients of these speeches, to know their views, and then to know your work or to work together with the recipients of these speeches in order to raise or eliminate problems in them, or to do everything so that they do not repeat themselves again. And the subject I also wanted to talk about, Professor Alice Chybick. The first thing to be seen in this report is your ideological manifesto, which says that you have joined a group of Members who have applied to the Constitutional Tribunal for Ms Julia Przyłębska. I respect that, but it took up a dozen pages and was sort of the first demonstration of what happened in October, which is at the end of the reporting year. And I want to know, too, and I ask you to put this in writing, please, what the senator, Professor Chybick, asked you to do for the parents of children who were born with disabilities. I want to know what you've done, what you've done, besides those 4,000 that they get, you've prepared for them. How do you support them every day? As you know, parents of such children have a basic health package, a basic rehabilitation package, but these parents never stop in their efforts, they want more for their children with disabilities, they want to prepare them for a normal, normal life. That's why these calls, these requests for funding, funding, all those dropouts that we're asked for every day. I think there are several of them a day, those requests that we receive from different parts of Poland. These are words that sometimes squeeze our throats, words written by the parents of these children. I want you to write to me about how you support these families, not just manifesting your standing guard. And then, in everyday life, what kind of help can they expect from you? I will not duplicate the topics that have already been raised, but I must raise the subject of education during the epidemic. In this report, it is clear that you have written to the Minister of Education that we are in an emergency situation, that we must make extraordinary decisions, that you have written to the Minister of Education that thanks to his rapid response, we have quickly adapted to the new challenges of the teaching environment. You even thank the Ministry for trying to save the school year, and you still hope that this school year will succeed. And in the following sentences you write, pointing out the teaching staff, the directors, the local governments, that they overcharge children, do too many tasks, without any coordination and without any pedagogical input from the teacher. Then you write about the fact that your parents report that teachers, directors violate their basic teaching responsibilities. In the following sentences It's a single occurrence. You ask the Minister, who was excellently prepared and prepared everything instantly, and the teaching staff, and the local government, and the directors, whether the teaching staff, the directors are sufficiently prepared to monitor the students' activity, whether teachers can count on real support from the director, whether teachers respect the medical recommendations regarding how children use devices that enable them to work remotely, whether teachers remember to adapt the requirements to the ability of children and whether they can count on mutual assistance and cooperation between children and teachers. This is a few sentences from the speech to the Minister of Education. And to your chief health inspector, you're still calling for... Speaking of the shortcomings that have arisen regarding the failure to ensure safe and hygienic conditions for children, you are asking your Chief Health Officer to take into account systematic hygiene and sanitary control during this difficult time. And now, Minister, by not concluding what you've written here yet, I want to know. 'Cause I didn't find it anywhere. Did you know the real situation of schools and the problems they faced on a daily basis when the pandemic occurred? Well, I'm just gonna tell you a few things that happened at the time. It turned out that the local authorities had benefited from the program "Remote school," but unfortunately it was not enough effort and funding. That is why local governments have provided students with all their equipment, which they had in individual schools, so that each child can access the computer. Did you know there was no Internet access in schools? Did you know that the National Education Network, the programme of the public telecommunications network, despite the Minister's assurances, was not realized and that the Internet did not work wherever it should be? Do you know? Of course, not to mention that there was no software or help in implementing it, there was no one, proven and recommended educational platform, that the principals bought the software for schools themselves, so there were different programs in the city? Did you know that there were problems with the implementation of the software base, especially in the case of objects requiring movement, practical or natural? Did you know that there were difficulties with the implementation of curricula, and that teachers were able to cope as simply as they could with the lack of systemic solutions? Do you also know that there was a lack of cooperation with the curators who often sent contradictory information, e.g. on the need to complete all activities while limiting the working time of the student before the computer? Did you know that there has been an excessive system of reminders, to fill in and report in the form of surveys, from curators to teachers, while there is a complete lack of substantive support? Did you know that there was no psychological support for teachers and students? I don't know if you know this because there wasn't any information on whether you were familiar with these problems. You didn't ask the schools to support them, or you asked them, and you didn't include it in your report. Why did you put all your responsibility on the faculty, the directors and the local government? Why, I'm sorry, but you were sucking up to the Minister, talking about the excellent preparation of the Ministry for the school year during the pandemic, and all the evil, all the responsibility you gave to schools, directors, local governments? Do you know what the situation was with the regulations that emerged, about how schools should function in the new school year? The one with the pandemic. On Monday or Tuesday, press conferences were held by the Minister or his Deputy Ministers on Monday and Tuesday. And on Saturday night, regulations came to talk about how school was supposed to work from the next Monday. Is that what the efficiency of the Ministry of Education you're writing about and talking to the Minister of Education was like? I think if you knew all this, your speeches to the Minister wouldn't be so sweet and talk about the real problems that occurred during the pandemic. Let me say this: this is not the report I expected, especially during the pandemic. I don't want to read your general speeches. I don't want to read about flattering ministers. That's not the kind of job I want, not your attitude as a spokesperson, as a guardian of the rights of the child. I want to see and feel your courage, your real actions. I even want you to harass the ministers, so that you harass us, so that you harass all those who take responsibility for the daily lives of children, not only the citizens of Poland, but the children at all. It is your duty, it is your mission, but you must also feel that it is also your responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! We had different mouthpieces of the rights of the child. I wouldn't criticize the current spokesperson so much, because I remember the Teletubist spokesperson who cared about us, the listeners, what she had to say. This report is standard, but I will repeat that it has 350 pages, and it consists primarily of the letters that you sent or received. This is unnecessary, it would just describe, give statistics, give what these letters were about. Well, you don't need 350 pages. The reports of other institutions do not contain such letters. If a letter is important, it can be included in the annex. But this is a formal matter, and I don't want to stop at it. Well, Mr. Ombudsman, there are two cases that threaten children. COVID-19 is the first case, the main case. You should be involved. I love you, sir. I've been listening, including today, when you said that they don't get vaccinated in Australia and that everything's okay, even better than anywhere else. And where they're vaccinated, where they're... You made a reservation, and it's very distinctive. You don't promote vaccination, and scientific evidence says that only vaccinations can limit this pandemic. Pandemic is also sick children, sick young people, and most of all transmissions to families, because young people who will become infected in schools will transmit this disease. This was last year, in September, when the schools were opened. From the centers where it was the worst, the pandemic was concentrated in 3 places. This pandemic problem just spilled all over Poland, appeared in many places, in dozens of places. It was clear to me that this was a matter of schools. In order not to do so, you need to get involved in promoting vaccination, not telling things that are more likely to be associated with anti-vaccines. They support what others tell them. Well, vaccinations aren't exactly sure, they're not tested in tests, etc., etc. I repeat: the scientific world and the vaccine specialists say that this is the only way to limit this pandemic and then end it, so I expect you to be involved with your entire office. You have employees. The second serious issue that concerns children is pedophilia, especially pedophilia in the Church, which also affects the credibility of this institution. It is clear to me that you are associated with the Church, that you are ideologically closely associated with the Church. So your attitude in this area may be more credible to this institution than others who are, as it were, from the outside. Such situations are often connected with religious families, the most religious ones, it affects children from these families, because they are altar boys. That's where you need to... I'm not talking about chasing, because you don't have the ability to prosecute, but about prevention. You have to talk, you have to say what the rules of contact are, what you can and can't do. These two things I think you left on the side, both of which are ideological to me. And yet, there are certain responsibilities for protecting children and young people. This is why we have a spokesperson for the rights of the child, although we also have an Ombudsman. This special institution was created because we felt that the protection of children's rights must be further emphasised. We thought it was necessary to create an institution that specializes in this area. So I expect your activity, not servility towards ministers and governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Child Rights Ombudsman, Mr Mikołaj Pawlak, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? No. I would like to thank the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, for presenting the information. I note that the Senate took note of the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020 together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws. The text is contained in print No 435 and the committee's report In print No 435 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u70	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 28 June, the Senate Marshal sent the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws, Senate printing No. 435, to the Health Committee, which held on 14 July 2021. At the meeting of the committee guests were invited: Deputy Minister of Health Anna Goławska, representative of the Medical Research Agency, Mr Krzysztof Górski, Director for the implementation of scientific projects, and health experts. Mr Krzysztof Górski was also invited by me to the Monday meeting of the Parliamentary Group on Medical Research and Innovation in Health Protection, on which the subject of the revision of the Act on the Agency for Medical Research was also discussed. Unfortunately, none of ABM participated in this meeting. In principle, we all agree with the general idea of this law. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the Act is also to increase the competitiveness of the Republic of Poland as a place of conducting clinical research and research experiments and to introduce facilitations and mechanisms to encourage such research. There's no contradiction here, but, of course, as usual, it's about details. The Act also plans to increase the capacity of the Medical Research Agency itself to carry out tasks that... From the moment he started running the PiS, there's probably already 35 such entities that consume public money. This is about enabling the financing of medical experiments, not just clinical trials, to finance investment tasks from the Agency's budget. The novel also aims to allow for a more flexible selection of experts, including experts. assess applications for funding. It shall amend the documents proving the right to pursue the profession. The explanatory memorandum also states that ABM will have the possibility to select appropriate substantive support for its activities to exclude the application of public procurement rules as regards the involvement of experts who are individuals in the evaluation of applications for funding and other evaluations and opinions concerning the performance of the Agency's tasks. The purpose of this law is also to leave at the disposal of the Agency for Medical Research funds derived from a copy of the National Health Fund, not used in a given calendar year, for the following years, for the purpose for which they were granted. Unfortunately, as I mentioned, the bill included among others. the appointment of experts which may be carried out without public procurement rules and the possibility for ABM to transfer unused funds for the following year, which may lead to serious abuse or mismanagement. According to this amendment, the Ministry of Health imposes an obligation on local governments to issue a new right to pursue a profession without any resources being allocated to it. I stressed at the Health Committee's meeting that all local authorities, all professional self-governments, all of our medical professions, have taken note of this issue. The Health Committee also expressed its disapproval for the so-called. Inputs included in the amendment. Namely, only half of the proposed novel concerns the Agency for Medical Research, and the rest concerns completely different laws. We also stressed at the committee meeting that ABM is using the National Health Fund, and that these funds should be used to treat patients who really do not have all the necessary procedures. This is also evidenced by the number of deaths in the pandemic period or in the circumpandemic period But if that's still the case with epiphany, I think we might be in the first place. The invited experts criticized, among others. introducing a new amendment to the refund of medicines so that the Fund President can decide, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, to finance the medicine for which no further decision has been made on the refund under a drug or chemotherapy programme. The refund law should be drawn up and processed; we should not have any more in such a novelty of the law to do so. These experts pointed out that this issue requires a systematic solution, which I have just mentioned to you, not a provisional extension of a year. The Legislative Office supported us on the assessment of this novel law, because it prepared a very comprehensive opinion on the proposed law. Attention has been drawn, among others. on the fact that new regulations were added to the bill at the second reading in the Sejm. Changes have been made in violation of constitutional principles of the legislative procedure, including legislation on the legislative initiative and the procedure for 3 readings. In the view of the Constitutional Tribunal, the requirement for the Sejm to examine draft laws in 3 readings means a constitutional order that these basic contents, which are finally contained in the Act, go the full way of the legislative procedure and that there is no time and opportunity to reflect on the solutions adopted and to take a legitimate stance on them. In the view of the Constitutional Court, this order also precludes the application of the amendment procedure which allows the introduction of new essential content in the draft at the last stages of the Seym procedure. It is stressed that this applies in particular to the amendments tabled only at second reading. Thus, the honourable Commission in its report requested that the law be rejected in its entirety. At the time of the vote 5 senators voted in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome, Minister Anna Goławska. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u72	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I present the Act amending the Act on the Medical Research Agency and some other laws. It is a law that clarifies the regulations on the functioning of the Agency for Medical Research and aims to improve the functioning of the institutions and, above all, to enable the financing of medical experiments by the Agency for Medical Research. In addition, the Act contains provisions on the issue of a right to pursue a profession in the case of particular medical professions. The amendment aims to enable professional authorities to issue these documents, as has been the case so far, and this is related to the Act on public documents which changed this task, which was assigned to the Minister for Health. In addition, we are introducing a change in the financing of medications removed from reimbursement lists. This is also an extension of the existing provision, which is an amendment aimed only at extending the existing rules. The Act is very important from the point of view of the development of clinical trials in our country and strengthening its role in conducting research on the international market. So please give us a positive opinion of the bill. As regards the allegations relating to the addition of statutory regulations during the second reading of the draft law at the legislative stage in the Sejm, the additional issues related to, for example, the extension of treatment, with the possibility of prolonging treatment with medicines deleted from reimbursement lists, it should be noted that this is not a question which raises doubts about the Legal Office of the Sejm. These amendments have been accepted... [[Voice from the Chamber: the Sejm?]] Yes, of course, I am presenting the position of the Sejm. They were accepted. These are very important changes from the point of view of patients and ensuring the continuity of their treatment, and the issue is therefore extremely important and urgent. It should be pointed out that the amendments tabled must not lead to the introduction at the final stages of Parliament's legislation of matters of importance which might be time-consuming in considering and taking a stand against them. That's what the Senate Legislative Office says. On the other hand, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that only when going beyond the scope of the law takes on a significant scale and amendments propose the introduction to the Act of contents which are not directly linked to the purpose and subject-matter of the Act, it can be considered that they go beyond the scope of the Act and take on the form of spontaneous legislative proposals. However, in the assessment of the applicant in the case of the contested changes, this is not the case. With regard to the board of agencies, where a change has been made, these changes are directly linked to the purpose and subject of the Act as the solutions are related to the proposed changes in the functioning of the Medical Research Agency. As regards the extension of treatment with medicines deleted from reimbursement lists, this is only a formal extension of the standard introduced by the covid act, which was in force until 30 June. And one more amendment that concerns TOPSOR. It is only such a very technical amendment that regulates who will be the administrator of the system, so it is not something controversial either. We are not dealing with changes which can be regarded as significant changes resulting in a violation of constitutional regulations. I ask you to give us a positive opinion of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u73	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, NIK investigated the agency's activities, which, of course, proved to be correct. Financially, everything fits. Yes, ma'am, it will be financially appropriate in each establishment if the plan is examined after the corrections and if the corrections have been made in due time. Then there are no problems, then everything is in line with the plan. But I would like to point out that this is the money that comes from the National Health Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the freezing of unspent money from the National Health Fund is very detrimental to patients, especially patients. These are our contributions, so we would very much ask you to tell us why this money is to be frozen. It seems to me that this case has just come from a study by the NIK, according to which for 2020, ladies and gentlemen, the agency had 83 million extras, that is, it did not spend 83 million, because it was simply the first year of its activities, as is explained. But if she doesn't spend any more in the years to come, then why the money that could be used for treatment? And do we know how many of them are missing and are about to be frozen and remain in the agency? And by the way, I'm going to add: 2 1/2 years I've been fighting for a geriatric ward for poor old people, and I've always been told that there's no money for that. My second question, Minister. I would like to ask you for a reason: why is it possible to spend money on special subsidies for the investments of the agencies? What does that mean? What exactly is this investment about? Will this change not actually make the Agency the main consumer of research funds? My third question. I ask for a specific indication of the investments in the Agency. In this draft law, it is stated that funds are allowed to be spent on the agency's investment in research, but, after all, on its own, on the Agency's current costs. So I would like to ask you to indicate exactly what investments this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few times ago it has been emphasized that the agency's funds are money from the National Health Fund, in other words: our money, contributions. They can't be behind just because they're not being used. Once again, the biggest problem is the lack of money. I gave an example of geriatrics and how I have been told for two years that there is no money for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u75	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u76	Money. Indeed, the agency is financed by deductions from contributions from the National Health Fund, but this is not a freezing of money. Just because the money goes through another year doesn't mean it's gonna be frozen. The Agency is spending funds on projects that are multi-annual. It happens that beneficiaries have certain transfers in project implementation schedules and are unable to spend the amounts planned in a given year. This money will be moved to the following year, but it will only be available for the purpose for which it was originally allocated. So there is no question that this money will be spent on a target that is not intended for it. Moreover, this will enable the planned plan and schedule of the Medical Research Agency to be implemented, as it will not be necessary to consume the funds assumed for the remaining competitions to be implemented in a given year. So it's not like these drugs are gonna be frozen. They will be spent on an ongoing basis, only with a certain time shift. As if this annual budget spending plan, which is currently in force at the Medical Research Agency, is not taken into account here. This money, which I would like to stress, will also be used for patients, because clinical trials are being carried out for patients so that innovative treatments can be used. This is beneficial for patients, especially those who have some very difficult complications or whose diseases are difficult to cure by the methods used so far. The appropriations from the special subsidy will be used for the functioning of the Agency. As the name suggests, this is a targeted grant, which is intended for a specific purpose, so the agency will have to determine exactly what these funds will be spent on. This is primarily about the possibility of financing investment tasks, such as the purchase of computer equipment or other equipment, which is necessary for the day-to-day functioning of the agency and for the performance of the tasks of the institution. So there's no big, big investment here. It is only about expenditure which is necessary to carry out the current tasks of the institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u77	Thank you. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u78	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Well, the Medical Research Agency has been operating for about two years now. Well, I'm sure he's over a year and a half. And that's the agency that's actually the middleman for the money transfer. He takes them from the National Health Fund, that is, from our contributions, and transfers them to various beneficiaries, different entities, for the purpose of conducting clinical trials. These are the funds that come from our contributions, the public funds, so we have the right to know what the effect of the transfer is. And my specific questions are about these issues. First of all, is there a plan for priority clinical trials? Has anyone developed such a strategy of the greatest needs, or is it just on the principle that who volunteer can get the money? That's one thing. Secondly, how much money from the National Health Fund has been transferred to clinical trials? And the third line. What is the evaluation of these clinical trials? Do we only make them here in Poland, or do they continue? Are they of interest to the European Union and have these individual procedures received support from the EMA, the European Medicines Agency? Have they been directed towards further development, proceding, implementation, so that the ultimate effect is felt for our society? I would like to ask the Minister for specific figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u80	Thank you. The Agency for Medical Research is developing an action plan on the basis of which individual competitions are announced and individual projects are contracted. It's not like whoever volunteers gets the money. The procedure is transparent. There are experts who are involved in the evaluation of projects, so the selection of projects is carried out in a very transparent and in a clear way. This procedure is described, it can be obtained. As far as clinical evaluation is concerned, it's too early. Since these projects are many years old and the first cultivation took place last year, there is no possibility of evaluating these studies. But these tasks are anticipated, and we want to make sure that the results of these studies are widely used. I also stress that the Agency primarily finances non-commercial research. So this is something that will be of great importance to our country. As far as the specific amount that has been allocated to the survey is concerned, I will reply in writing. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: May I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u82	Minister, I am not concerned with whether experts judge transparently because I am convinced that this must be the case and that experts evaluate the projects that will be submitted to the agency. I mean whether there is such a strategy and a priority plan that are prepared earlier before the competition is launched, and only on the basis of this strategy are certain projects being decided.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u83	Yes, a plan is being drawn up to announce competitions in a given year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u84	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question. Does the addition of a provision with the content as referred to in Article. 37b, to the Refund of Medicines Act will actually allow you to continue the refund of the drug or special purpose... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, the microphone is not on.]] ...individual drug treatments... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Microphone, Senator.]] [[Voice from the room: The card must be inserted.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: From the beginning.]] Thank you so much and I'm sorry I wasn't heard. I repeat the question... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: You are still not heard.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe the card is inserted the other way around.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to...]] Thank you very kindly for your advice, I adapted and here it works. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I would very much ask that the senator again...]] Yes. Minister, whether to add a provision on the content of the article. 37b to the Act on the refund of medicines will actually allow for the continuation of the refund of a medicine or special purpose product under a drug programme or chemotherapy for which a decision has already been made to pay the refund or not to pay the refund? It is stated in this note that the President of the National Health Fund may apply for a refund within 14 days to re-include this medicine. The last list was released on 24 June. Since 14 days have passed since that date, if, according to this list, the refund of one of the medicines, particularly those associated with drug therapy or chemotherapy, is no longer possible and patients may be deprived of this treatment, i.e. no refund of this therapy, chemotherapy or special therapy. Shouldn't some transitional provisions be introduced here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u86	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u87	Thank you for your attention. In fact, the recipe was valid until 30 June, but the NFZ developed such a transitional procedure that allowed people who were in the course of treatment to continue to benefit from these therapies. We want to introduce this in the legislation so that there is no doubt or concern on the part of patients that they may not have access to such treatment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u88	Thank you very much. [[I'll ask.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u89	I understand that... is that from this recording of the article. 37b shows that this refund will be possible? Because in my opinion, no, the sound of this recording is not clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u90	Yeah, it'll be possible. This provision aims to allow continued treatment if the medicine has been removed from the refund list. This possibility was also until 30 June and under similar conditions we will continue this treatment. Patients who were in this situation received treatment and had funding for this treatment. So that in practice it has already happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a specific question. We are in the circumpandemic period, we have a very large excess of death, as I said in my report. Does the agency currently subsidize studies on basic studies or experimental studies on what factors have affected this number of deaths? I think this is a priority in the times of what happened in our country, in terms of pandemic management, contact with POZ doctors or teleporades. Is such a study being conducted and do you subsidize such research within the Medical Research Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u93	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u94	I think this task would go beyond the scope of the Medical Research Agency. Such analyses are carried out, among others. at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u95	I'd really ask you to find out if that's true. Well, such a study should be subsidised by the research agency as a priority. The agency, as you said, is about to subsidize non-commercial research as part of this amendment that we are now working on. As far as these studies are concerned, as our experts have also said, there are basic research, i.e. those that have no commercial purpose, only research certain phenomena and give us knowledge of what has happened in recent history, so that we can draw conclusions for the future. So, I think it's more in the agency's hands. If you don't know, I'm asking you to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u96	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u97	Such studies, such analyses are carried out at the Ministry of Health. The Medical Research Agency does not currently finance such research.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u98	Thank you. Senator Alicia Chybick's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question which is a continuation of the question of Senator Małecka-Libera, because you didn't answer it very much. What are the criteria for choosing topics that... and what are the dates? Is it clear whether this is the will of the head of the Medical Research Agency or the advice that states: here are the grants for cardiology, oncology or what Senator Gorgon-Komor was just talking about? Who decides that? Is it totally discretionary, or is it taken into account, however, that we have a pandemic, that we have at the moment a tsunami of cancers, that there are some or other things in health care that should cause the response of the Medical Research Agency and direct research into the stream of research most needed? I have the feeling that something like this doesn't seem to exist, that it's a little discretionary. If I'm wrong, correct me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u101	The Action Plan of the Agency for Medical Research is prepared annually and is primarily based on the current epidemiological situation, the current situation in the health system, the current situation in relation to the diseases and health status of Poles. There are, of course, very different data on the basis of which analyses are carried out. It should be stressed that there is a board within the Medical Research Agency that oversees and develops the Agency's activities. Here are the assembled scientists, there are gathered people, representatives of different medical communities. They accept this plan and then hand over the health minister to accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u102	There you go. Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u103	I have to ask. Then please tell us how much work has been adopted on the subject of COVID, which we have since... SARS-CoV-2 destroys Poles since March 2020. It's a year and a half. How many grants have been accepted in this regard? Because I don't think anyone in Poland or in the world will say that it's not a number one theme.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u104	As part of the work of the Medical Research Agency, projects related to COVID are being carried out, such as a project on the spread of individual virus strains or vaccine projects. There is a competition for vaccine development, so the Medical Research Agency also has this subject in its scope.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u105	Thank you. Would anyone else like to ask a question? No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted in the Senate is highly underdeveloped with 4 outcasts. In fact, if we consider the legislative process, we can say that it is being carried out with the violation of the Constitution and the violation of Polish law, which was said repeatedly at the committee meeting which took place before the Senate meeting. In fact, all of these inserts should be removed and one point would be left, which concerns the Medical Research Agency itself, which also contains absolutely debatable records, e.g. the possibility of discretionary removal of board members for more specific reasons. In addition, we have also stressed this repeatedly at the committee meeting, the Agency for Medical Research is another body that consumes quite a lot of money in itself. And it's a horrible thing. At least the minister here was trying to calm us down. It is freezing or removing funds from the National Health Fund, at the moment when hospitals are in debt, when there is no money to treat patients, when there is no money to save lives, health. You say they're not frozen, but they're frozen for the sick. I'm looking at the patient's point of view. So what if some sick guy gets that money in three years if he loses his life here and now? I'm going back to the medical research agency case as such, the meaning of its existence. We have many bodies in Poland that deal with science, such as the Polish Academy of Sciences, NCBR or NCN, bodies that deal with basic and clinical research. Creating another institution... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, would you mind not disturbing us? Excuse me, Senator.]] Thank you very much. In fact, this record, which is a new record, as well as the previous ones, does not deserve the support of the High House. So I am absolutely against it, all of us senators are against breaking the law and the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The medical research agency from the very beginning, when it was founded, raises my objection. I'll tell you why. It's not because I don't want to develop science and, above all, innovation in medicine. On the contrary, I am a huge supporter of progress, development and knowledge. But my objection is because it's another agency in my mind, but not just mine, because it's also a lot of experts. It's completely redundant. There is the Polish Academy of Sciences, there is the NCBR, there are research institutes and these are institutions that can absolutely also develop research activities. But the most important charge I have is the source of funding. Because if this agency were created and had some extra, extra funding, that's fine. But you've built an agency that's funded by the National Health Fund, from our health contributions. It can't be my agreement to fund clinical trials, non-commercial clinical trials, by taking contributions from the National Health Fund, at the time my mother comes to me and says that she has a 3-year-old child who has had seizures in the last 2 months and has a diagnostic examination date in mid 2022. What am I supposed to tell her? Why are we spending money from the National Health Fund when we do not finance innovative, tested and available cancer drugs in Europe? There are no drugs in Poland. So it conflicts with each other because, of course, there is progress, innovation and knowledge on the one hand, but on the other hand, at a time when these measures are not enough, when there is no availability of health services, we must not limit and spend money for other purposes. And that's the first thing. The second thing I've been talking about since the beginning. The Agency shall operate on the basis of the Act on the Agency for Medical Research. Well, of course, she's been called up, which is why she's acting on the basis of this bill. But there's no legal basis for clinical trials because there's no law on clinical trials. Since 2014, there has been a regulation of the European Union which requires us to have such a law. It's 2021, we hear she's somewhere in the consultation. But she's not here. And you're expanding it even further in this area. Not only for clinical trials, but also for medical experiments. This is done without a legal basis. The third issue that absolutely raises my objection is this amendment that we are working on today and which we are talking about. Because the state to this whole picture, which is not quite as transparent as it should be... after all, at the committee meeting there were words that also under pharmaceutical law the agency was operating. I would like to say that this is not the case because innovation, development is not only progress and new medicines, but it is also medical devices and there are some kind of procedures. So this legal basis, which I am talking about, is absolutely essential for this activity to be a real activity. And that's what you're putting in place now, and you're updating the bill, extending it to a medical experiment, without a clinical trial bill. But you also introduce such a lack of transparency, or maybe you deliberately assign certain possibilities and powers to the president of the agency or to the minister. We cannot agree that certain things concerning the tendering procedure should be ignored. Why is there such an exclusion here? After all, this is the lack of transparency. Nor can we agree that the Minister of Health should suddenly be able, during his term of office, to dismiss a member of the Council simply because he thinks so. These are records that raise a number of doubts and are really very difficult to accept. If a group of experts is selected to assess the conclusions, they must be independent, knowledgeable and professional experts. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But they can't control themselves and they can't judge themselves, because it really causes strange associations when it comes to the course of all this work and the initiation of new clinical trials. Therefore, this substantive amendment raises our considerable doubts. But there is another element that my predecessors have already talked about here, namely how the draft of the amended law is being sent to us again. Once again, good legislation is being broken, the constitution is broken again, because only part of the provisions in this project concern the Agency for Medical Research, and some of these are so-called inserts of amendments that appear but concern completely different issues and completely different laws. And, most importantly, it is not true that these are sudden records resulting from an emergency situation that needs to be brought into the law immediately. These are the things that were predictable, and these are the topics that could be carried out peacefully as amendments to individual laws, and not do the kind of confusion that you are here, in this law. And it's not the first and probably not the last time. You're proposing. Here, in the Senate, from the very beginning, we say that we will stand guard of good legislation and that we do not allow the constitution to be broken. That's our golden rule. And why are we following it so much? Because then you leave this building and when there are reservations As for the bill passed, you say, "Well, it's Parliament, it's the High House that passed the bill." No, it cannot be our consent, also in the very dimension that raised our legal office, the Legislative Office, saying that this law is incompatible with the good principles of law enforcement. Therefore, In summary, the process of setting up agencies is negative because we believe that these institutes, which are so far, and the multiplication of these entities, agencies and funds, are not the most important thing in the present day. Secondly, I call once again for the law on medical research to become the legal basis for the agency's activities and not the law on its establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm not a doctor, but I've always been an entrepreneur, and I've been paying a lot of money to the National Health Fund, and I have a moral right when I see things like this, to speak. It is true that health should not have a price, and the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 virus, which we have been fighting for 1.5 years, is the best example of this. The battalion for the recovery of the whole society should be carried out in a systematic and thought-out manner. Unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that systemicity, when we talk about health issues, is often lacking. Activities are as if scattered around many ministries, institutions, agencies. Their work is very often uncoordinated, and we have heard about it many times here. All this, on the one hand, reduces the effectiveness of the measures taken, and on the other, of course increases the costs of these actions. This topic is extremely important because the attention goes to By PLN 213 million per year. These are our resources, our health contributions. You often say they're yours. I can't listen to the ministerial officials say this is our means. These funds derive from the budget of the Medical Research Agency. This, of course, means reducing the resources for health care. 213 million a year is twice as much as the budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Once again, I would like to stress this: this is twice as much as the budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences. And what are these medical tests? First of all, it's about the big money. It is said that the Medical Research Agency is the child of Minister Szumowski. First of all, this amendment is intended to make the spending of these funds even more transparent. You want to exclude from public procurement the selection of external experts to evaluate proposals. Bravo. You also want to limit the possibility of protesting against the results of the competitions. Finally, you want to expand your research experiments on human medical experiments. The law provides for an extension of the scope of the agency, which was established only two years ago. In fact, we don't have any work results from this agency today, even though it's been a year and a half and the funds were big. As for what my previous speaker put forward, the explanatory memorandum refers to the impact of the planned research on the economy, on human health, on the various areas of public life in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, consent to the objectives set, but details are always in the records. First of all, consider, please, the opinion of BAS, the opinion of the Sejm. She's critical of the provisions of this bill, she's very critical. First of all, it cannot be that experts will be appointed not on the basis of the Public Procurement Act, but in the same way as in a private farm. We have no explanation that there are no experts on the market. We don't buy it. Here's another thing. In case we have a reservation... Why will the same expert who will evaluate the purpose of the study also control the research, i.e. himself? You can't listen to that anymore and you can't read it. There are also doubts about medical experiments. For today, the law on clinical trials has not yet been established, although it has been widely discussed. In fact, for several years it has been said that it will arise, and we are already leading to the fact that we are adding medical experiments to clinical trials that are not regulated by law. It raises our huge, huge doubts. I'm absolutely against this bill because it's another sloppy proposal. We've questioned these laws many times here, and I hope this one doesn't go through either. Finally, I want to share such a sad reflection. Older people have been begging me for two years to help open a geriatric unit in a voivodship hospital. And always people from the same fund that has so much money in their account today said, "There's no money." And that's a sad conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u112	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It's another being that was created in your government. 30th in various funds and agencies. Let's hope the money from the Reconstruction Fund isn't wasted. Of course, the scientific community expects funding. Well, they're desperate. Like, for example, Professor Banach's group, which is working on a highly anticipated and very important vaccine against atherosclerosis within the Polish-Iranian group. Does your agency support such research? And what do Poles most often die of? They die of cardiovascular disease, and oncology is second. This is a great place to showcase our Polish science when you say that we are to be a leader, to compete with countries in Europe or with countries around the world. Meanwhile, the Polish-Iran group... This time now, circumpandemic, is an extremely important time for medicine, the time when Poland experienced the greatest tragedy, the greatest number of deaths since World War II. Those death increases I mentioned earlier as rapporteur, 63% , place us second after Bulgaria, including 47% of deaths are covid deaths, and the rest are so-called. Quiet victims of the COVID. So the management of the pandemic you're talking about and the propaganda TV that looks so great didn't work out. They failed the teleporade exam because it was difficult to contact first contact doctors. That's what needs to be considered, and that's what needs to be studied. And if you don't understand what basic research is, then I'm happy to define it. And that falls within your competence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing more to add, because here everything has already come to fruition, that you will consume contributions from people who are not being treated properly, who are waiting in long queues... But I ask you to consider whether this source of funding is really good. It's science, isn't it? They should be secured in the budget of the state just out of science, not out of our contributions It has also been mentioned. We need to set priorities according to the latest trends and standards of medical knowledge, not at the discretion of the public. The selection of the experts referred to, without public procurement, will make us as the opposition suppose that you will be guided by some discretion in the case of your colleagues. Not high-end experts, but someone you'll know. And we absolutely don't agree to that. I think this is a moment of reflection on what to spend money on from the Fund for Reconstruction. And it is this big money from the Union that has made you so wrong about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws is another draft law, another government submission on the chaotic legislative structure. This law contains a small part of the provisions concerning the Agency for Medical Research, the remaining regulations concern most of the changes in such important areas of health protection as the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, the Law on Laboratory Diagnosis, the Act on Healthcare Provision, the Act on State Medical Rescue, the Act on Drug Refund, the Act on Nurses and Midwives, the Act on Physiotherapeutic Profession, the Act on Amendment of the Act on Healthcare Benefits, the Act on Pharmacy Profession. That's the law that doesn't apply to the Medical Research Agency. Such important areas of health protection are being changed without proper consultation with the medical community, and those concerning the Agency for Medical Research, in particular with a view to extending the scope of the Agency's activities and competences, including the possibility of supporting innovative activities in health protection, raise a number of concerns and concerns. Firstly, our reservations are about how to appoint and dismiss the members of the Board of Agencies either on the Minister's own initiative or at the request of the notifier without justification, and therefore with great discretion, with lack of transparency and objectivity. Secondly, the way in which experts' remuneration is determined, excluding the application of the Public Procurement Law. This is another sign of lack of transparency and, as a result, a great deal of discretion. There are no precise rules for protesting the results of the competition. And what raises our next very big reservation is the source of funding for the Medical Research Agency. This source is, as we have already mentioned many times here, the National Health Fund. So, in fact, this is a reduction in the resources allocated to the protection of our health, to medical benefits, to the resources derived from the health contributions of all citizens, rather than from a separate section of the budget, from a separate budget heading. In addition, the Act also raises doubts as to its compatibility with the Constitution as regards the procedure in which it was adopted. I therefore support the proposal to reject this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Mieczysław Golba, Viktor Durlak, Benjamin Godyla, Wadi Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 437 and the report of the Commission In print No 437 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The law we are currently discussing has its origins still in 2015, when the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that one of the provisions of this law needs to be amended. These were cases where administrative decisions, which generally had a certain time, during which they could be touched for various reasons, did not have a specific time in one case. This was the case with decisions that were taken with or without a gross violation of the law. And as a result of the action, the Constitutional Tribunal found that, although a decision was taken with or without a gross violation of the law, this is a very serious infringement and it violates the sense of justice very decisively, very seriously, there is also another constitutional value, namely legal certainty. Therefore, the period during which such a decision could possibly be moved, i.e. simply invalidated, withdrawn from the market, must nevertheless be specified. The Court has not identified what period this should be. Later, after the judgment of the Court, the case was dealt with, among others. The Supreme Administrative Court. He pointed out, by way of margin, that because of a very serious breach of law or lack of legal basis, such a period should be relatively long, he even talked about 30 years. In all other cases, where the Code of Administrative Procedure contained such periods, they were defined as 10 years, except in the same case where there was no such period. In 2016, here in the Senate, the Legislative Commission tried to fill this gap and even such a project, piloted by Senator Gogach, who was then chairman of the Legislative Commission, was developed. It contained very, so to speak, simple solutions, namely that decisions characterised by this gross violation of the law or lack of a legal basis, although then probably only a gross violation of the law, were assigned a 10-year period, which is exactly the same as in other cases. At the same time, it was concluded that if this period had expired, because it also concerned earlier decisions, or it would have passed in the future, if it were to concern future decisions, then another article of the Code of Administrative Procedure applies, which is still in force today, which says that in such a case a citizen who is asking for the annulment of such a decision can no longer count on the fact that this decision will be withdrawn from the market, but can count on some kind of provision which will say that such a decision was actually invalid, was taken with a gross violation of the law, i.e. it receives the so-called. a prejudice with which he may go to court and seek compensation in court. The court will determine whether this compensation would be and possibly what it would be. This project was then developed in 2016 but was not finalised. It was withdrawn, well, probably because there were signals from the government that a reprivatization bill would be drawn up. Indeed, such information was then received, and it was also presented in the Senate, that such a law was drawn up in the Ministry of Justice. She was even given details. However, in the end, the government did not decide to accept this proposal and refer it to Parliament. Another attempt was made relatively recently, this year, at the beginning of this year in the Seym. The Legislative Commission adopted a draft law roughly like this Well, maybe not a word for word, but when it comes to meaning, it's identical. As was the project that was developed in the Senate in 2016 and subsequently withdrawn. This project later went to the codification committee in the Sejm and was already radically extended there. And that's where he went to the Senate. The two committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions have dealt with this project at 2 meetings. The first meeting was such a quasi-public hearing, without any legislative proposals yet. Then we received expertise, opinions, quite wide-ranging. And we have already adopted legislative solutions at the second meeting. What is the nature of this law? 'Cause it's already a bill passed by the Sejm? In part, it repeats these proposals which were in their time and in the senate project, and in this first draft of the Sejm, the Legislative Commission of the Sejm, namely that this gap, i.e. the absence of a deadline for touching, for the annulment of a decision which was taken with a gross violation of the law or without a legal basis... that this period would be the same as in other cases, e.g. in such cases, when the decision was issued, for example, by the wrong authority. That is, this period will be 10 years. Expansion... and, in fact, you could say, if it were to end there, it wouldn't, I think, cause any controversy that then came out here in the Senate. However, this project has been extended and has basically turned into a substitute for a reprivatization law that still does not exist. What's this all about? Well, this extension is in several points, and it concerns that, first of all, decisions that were made more than 30 years ago... Well, it is known that we are talking here primarily about decisions, let's say, nationalism, related to agricultural reform, etc., i.e. all those decisions that were then contested, because they were not in line with the law of that time, and which were then subject to various reprivatization procedures. If more than 30 years have elapsed since such a decision was taken, the annulment proceedings shall no longer be initiated. This provision is of a general nature, i.e. It also matters for the future, in the sense that if today... If, I don't know, in six months' time, a decision will be made, which will prove to be a gross violation of the law, within 10 years of the issue, it will be touched, and after 10 years... i.e. 30 years later, it will no longer be possible to even initiate proceedings in its case. And that's for the future. But that also applies to past decisions. In other words, if there is any further request for a decision from 50 and 60 years ago, it will no longer be allowed to proceed in accordance with that provision at all. And that's one recipe, I'd say, new, added. The second, very important, is the one that concerns the so-called. pending cases, i.e. those cases which, of course, relate to past decisions and which are currently pending reprivatisation proceedings. And here the recipe is very simple. It says that with the entry into force of the Act all these processes, I stress, not the courts, only all the administrative processes that are taking place at the moment, are being discontinued. In other words, those who are at the moment reaching their rights will be left with absolutely nothing, they may, so to speak, close all their files and they can no longer count on anything, even the right to court. This is the second recipe. And the third, which also raised a little controversy, was a provision concerning vacathio legis, which is very short here and is 30 days, 1 month from the date of the announcement. I presented here some genesis and the history of this legislative process. It's important that we all understand what's going on here and know what we're going out of committee. I would like to say immediately that at the committee meeting or at the committee meetings, there was no controversy about the need to regulate the possibility of moving these decisions with a gross violation of the law and without a legal basis. Doubts and discussions raised the question of whether this should be a ten-year period or a longer period. As I said, the Supreme Administrative Court proposed here a much longer period. Also in the opinions we received, there were proposals for a longer period of time, which resulted from the fact that the opinion-makers believe that the constitutional value of a sense of justice, in the case of decisions taken with a gross violation of the law, is, in particular, valid, and therefore the period for such a decision to be withdrawn from the market should be longer. There was no controversy about the fact that, if 30 years had passed since the decision was taken, there would be no further initiation of proceedings for this decision. In other words, who had to make their claims or who would want to make their claims, because also in the future it could happen, it must be within 30 years. If he does not do so, the action to move or the administrative procedure will not be taken at all. And that didn't raise any doubts. The issue of these matters has raised the greatest doubts. In this regard, the opinions were clear. I am talking about the opinion of the Constitutionalist, Prof. Piotrowski, here I am talking about the opinion of our Legislative Office and I am also talking about the opinion of Prof. Czapliński, who in this opinion dealt with the international aspects of these various claims, but at the end of his opinion he pointed out that the issue of vacathio legis and the issue of pending cases, especially pending cases, should be settled somehow. He clearly indicated that this cannot be a mere remission of these matters. The discussion was very, so to speak, lively and insightful. Therefore, an amendment has been proposed which amended this law. It wasn't a 1st article or a 1st point, but it was simply a modification of the bill. The following solutions are included in this amendment. Namely, when it comes to the possibility of touching a decision taken with or without a gross violation of the law, this amendment describes a period of 30 years as a period during which it can be touched. As far as vacathio legis is concerned, it was extended to 3 months. And when it comes to this most crucial issue, that is. the issue of pending cases, it is noted that these pending cases can continue and can end. They may end by a decision or by a decision of the relevant administrative authority, and if it is a decision indicating that the contested decision was issued with or without a gross violation of the law, while the person applying for such a decision may no longer count on the return of the assets in kind, I would like to make it clear that the law which came from the Sejm ends the refunds in nature and the amendment also maintains that state of affairs, but the applicant for such a decision will be able to obtain the preliminary ruling referred to in Article. 158 of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Thus, although the decision is not withdrawn from the market, i.e. the complainant cannot receive a refund of the assets, but receives a suitable, colloquially speaking, paper with which he can go to court and can claim compensation, and this court will decide what it would be. And the third issue that was included in it is that I have already said about it, is the extension of the vacathio legis to 3 months. This amendment was accepted by the committees and, therefore, I allow myself to submit to the High House a proposal for this law, along with the amendment that I have discussed here. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, Marshal Borowski, as rapporteur. There's one thing I'd like to know: how do you assess the senator? If there was a discussion at committee meetings on this subject, perhaps at a wider forum There's the case you mentioned, i.e. the big reprivatization bill that's supposed to be? What does it mean in your opinion to adopt this law without amendments to the large reprivatisation law? Do you think it's closing this road or not? On the other hand, what does it mean to accept this amendment, which the committees propose, your amendments, to the reprivatization bill: does it open or close the way? I don't know, maybe I wasn't clear, but I think the point is clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u119	I understand what's going on, yeah, I understand. All the reprivatization laws that were designed, one, as we know, were even passed, probably in the year 2000... All the reprivatization laws, including the one that was prepared 2 years ago, 3 years ago by the Ministry of Justice, generally assumed the ending of refunds in nature, although some allowed refunds e.g. some unbuilt parcels, where there were no irreversible legal effects, etc., but generally assumed some compensation, partial compensation. The most famous one, which was vetoed by President Kwasniewski, assumed compensation of 50% the value that was to be determined in a different mode. The one who was prepared at the Ministry of Justice, if memory serves me right, assumed 15%. or 20% compensation depending on the form, whether it's in the securities, or... I can't remember exactly anymore, in any case it was a compensation of 15%. It is natural, therefore, that... in any country in which reprivatization laws have been adopted, or property has been returned or compensation has been accepted. Therefore, if you wanted today To adopt a reprivatization bill, then, of course, with some compensation, I don't know which one. This law is now talking about the bill, not the amendment. It does not contain any compensation. She, like the reprivatization bill, ends the process of reprivatization, but without any compensation, because she's dropping all the cases that are under way. And that's the difference if we wanted to adopt the bill today. Now the question is: does the amendment preclude the adoption of a reprivatization law or not? Well, it's the amendment that doesn't rule out, because you can stay... If the amendment were accepted and the pending cases were pending, we will either remain in this option, that there is still no reprivatisation law and the cases are gradually ending, because either there is a negative decision that there is no reason to believe that this old decision was a gross violation of the law, or vice versa. There's a prejudice, you can go to court and that's where things are going. Therefore, if the government wanted to end it's faster and uniform, it doesn't prevent such a reprivatization bill, even after the adoption of this amendment, after the adoption of such a law, to be adopted. She'll be dealing with all pending cases then. Perhaps you will leave some time limit for a possible application. ♪ So that we ♪ I say "my" or "Poland," i.e. the various governments that were. We accepted the option, one might say, wanting either not to, or, as a matter of fact, to investigate these cases in court, because no reprivatization law appeared. But when you accept this amendment, it may appear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u120	Thank you. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I've been to these committee meetings, but I don't remember, and I've been asked to ask you about it. How many cases that could have been dropped if you hadn't passed that amendment that I think you've proposed could have been completed today?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u122	We had data on this subject here. With these cases, it's like there's a case going on in the courts. These issues will continue, regardless of what option will be adopted. However, this is, of course, about those matters that are going on in the administration. Here it was quite difficult to determine precisely. I have here an answer to such a letter, except that it was the cases led by the Attorney General, and I don't think that's what this was all about anyway. [[The D.A.'s on trial...]] But in court. Excuse me, I have a document I can look into, but I didn't take it with me. Wait a minute. [[Maybe the Minister will know.]] Maybe the Minister will know, although we've asked that before, and, apparently, there was a problem with that. The questions in this matter were asked in the Seym by one of the messengers. They were addressed to various municipalities, the larger ones of course, and there were some answers. I just don't remember it right now, but I think it was a number of 2,000. Maybe I'll see it here. Oh, right. How many cases are currently underway? Yes, it was Mrs Gill-Friday, she asked for such information. I think there's a summary of that around here somewhere. Yeah, well, that's the problem, because these things are very scattered. [[It's not to take the time, I can...]] Well, I don't want to... But as long as my memory is correct, that's about 2,000 cases, of course, across the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u123	Thank you. Senator, you will ask this question to the Minister, who will be preparing for this in the meantime. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you because of this statement. I realized that no decision of the Sejm actually closes the road to... whatever Parliament will do about this bill, whether it will be adopted with an amendment or without an amendment... [[No, it's closed without an amendment.]] [[He's closing.]] In your opinion, it's closed. And now I have a question. But this argument can be reversed, because a group of people who will raise in this regard, that nevertheless these claims and outstanding cases need to be settled somehow... This could be a critical mass, it could lead to a reprivatization law that would fully regulate this issue, perhaps with a breakdown on lex specialis in relation to the Warsaw lands, which have an even more complex, complicated status. And that's my first question. I think this argument can be reversed. And question two. Well, paradoxically, one way or another, there will be two groups of beneficiaries of reprivatization: those who have recovered the property in nature or in full compensation, according to some criteria, and those who, if this hypothetical reprivatization law is, will receive compensation. Compensation of 50% , as proposed at the time of AWS, or 15-20%, but in a much smaller dimension. Isn't there going to be any danger of differentiation between those who, in my opinion, were asking for the return of their property that they found wrongly occupied?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u125	Mr. Senator, the greatest variation will occur when the law that came from the Sejm enters into force. Well, what does it mean? I'll read it. Art. 2 (2) 2 says: "The administrative proceedings for annulment of a decision or order initiated 30 years after the date of delivery or publication of a decision or order, that is, all those old decisions which are now being investigated, so to speak, and contested, and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Act by final decision or order, shall be waived by law. It's so clear that it's hard to make it clearer. That means, and you asked for differentiation, that those who still had time to get that decision or even the return of the estate... or the return, or that decision, and went to court, they'd get something else. Right? However, those who are still in the process and may already have all the documents, etc., but there is not yet a formal administrative decision, they will get nothing. Well, for me, it's a much bigger differentiation than any reprivatization bill would bring in for those whose cases are pending. In fact, I think that since we've accepted the option... As I say, we wanted differently, repeatedly, we wanted to have a reprivatization bill, but it didn't come out, and basically everything was going by the method: either return or case in court and compensation. Well, if we continue this, using this method, only to those who have pending cases, not accepting any new ones and not returning them, it is relatively fair, because simply subject to judicial review. Although, like I said, it doesn't rule out a reprivatization bill. Each of these laws, which had previously been proposed, divided the beneficiaries. Those who, before the reprivatization law, managed, as it is said popularly, to catch a positive decision, i.e. On return, they'd be won. Yes? And those who, after the reprivatization bill, would get e.g. 15% They could say that... So I would like to make it clear that at the committee meeting it was not disputed that we finally have to complete these various reprivatization processes, but it was only said, and that was the difference between the amendment and the amendment. That this should be completed in a civilised manner. So no refunds in nature. Okay, that's also in the amendment. Without adopting new proposals This is also the case in the amendment. However, with the completion of these cases possibly through a judicial road, on a civil road.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u126	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I will have a few questions for you, but to one thing I would like to point out why I am not asking about this matter, namely history and in a sense also politics, because it is unfortunately inextricably connected here. Well, I think it's a general law. The fact that it also has a historical impact is another issue and some environments use it excessively. Well, it's kind of for a determination, but also as a comment... I will use two terms here: a deadline or a period to move the decision. It's here 10 years, right now this period is still like this. and the period for the issue of... Well, it doesn't seem touching, so it's a statement that the decision was made in violation of the law, with a gross violation of the law, and then there's an opportunity to seek compensation. So let's get this straight: it's a period for you to seek compensation. And now yes: if in the current legal state I am talking about the state without this law, before the entry into force of this law, it is so that even with regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal... Because the judgment is, as the Court itself has stated, the scope for the omission of legislation, i.e., in short, without the intervention of the legislator, nothing changes in the legal state. And for six years, nothing's changed. In the current state of law, we are actually dealing with only one period, this is a 10-year period with some premises in the article. 156 - specific on the first, third, fourth and seventh To move the decision. But there is no specified period on the claim of compensation, which means that it can, practically speaking, be dragged away in time indefinitely. Right now, it is. What comes out of the Sejm, that is, what we have in orange printing, is still relatively consistent, because it is still 10 years to move a decision plus one condition is added, which is precisely a gross violation of the law, and there is a uniform, consistent period during which it is possible to claim compensation, after a few steps it gives 30 years. On the other hand, the amendment you proposed It's in this yellow print, and I'm saying it's easy to tell the difference. It will lead to some kind of chaos, because, on the one hand, there are 10 years to move the decision, as was the other, and 30 years in the condition of the other, i.e. in the event of a gross violation of the law or lack of a legal basis, but this is practically the same, on the other hand, the date is still coming and it has, practically speaking, a different character, because there is no longer talk of a period, but there is talk of a rigid date, about the fact that when the case is from a certain period of time, it is simply not possible to seek compensation. And here's the question: don't you think that such a complication will make it possible to continue to use the law in an instrumental manner? That's the first question. I'm asking because it's complicated. The multiplication of time limits, the multiplication of time periods is, in my opinion, a negative issue. And the second point is to introduce this date. Hence the second question, namely... well, this date, as if by itself, causes it to be born... Well, the suspicion is very little said here, rather it is sure that it is simply the closure of the period of the Polish People's Republic. Anyway, synthesized or less... By the way, there is no telling where this date is from or what happened on 1 January 1990, which would make it conditional that until then yes, and not from that moment on. And we now introduce such a date into the system, to k.p.a., we will cause ourselves to be exposed to legitimate pretensions, perhaps also from the outside, that we begin thus, by the law, simply to close history. So on the one hand... So I guess the question is clear here. On the one hand, it is the introduction of this date, which has not yet occurred in those provisions relating to decisions. I mean, there's no period, but there's a date. On the other hand, it is about multiplying these different periods, which causes complications in the system. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u128	I thank you, too, and I pay attention to being in this compartment, plus minus 1 minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u129	Mr. Senator, all I'm reporting right now is the proceedings of the committee and what was going on there. So... This discussion is already under way. That date was translated. So I don't want to go back to that. But since it so happens that this remark that the senator is now making was also made at the committee meeting, she did not remain, so to speak, without affecting the authors of the amendment, i.e. me and Senator Klich. And I can only announce... But that's not my job right now, because I'm the rapporteur. But I will take the floor in the discussion and make another amendment, which, so to speak, will take your attention into account. Well, that's all I can say right now. [[How about a little mystery, or is there going to be another date?]] No, there won't be a date. There will be no date and... Okay. I'm gonna tell you right now, 'cause it's okay... Then I'll put it back together. The amendment will only be limited to... I mean. will leave these solutions to the 10-year period and the next 30-year rule and will only concern pending cases and vacathio legis. So that there will be a significant simplification. Well, because I've thought this through. And this issue can indeed raise such doubts here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u130	Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u131	Mr. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] I'm turning it on right now. [[Voice from the room: The card is inserted?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Oh, there's no card... [[Whatever you need to take...]] Senator Libicki, please... Speaking of questions... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Speaker...]] It's on. Speaking of Senator Jackowski's questions... In my opinion, and I would like to know the opinion of the senator, Mr Marshal, on this issue, the reprivatization bill, if it were adopted, would provide a completely separate basis for the payment of compensation and would open up new deadlines, a new time perspective. Because she'd be a special law against the law. Well, just like the law allowing compensation for property lost behind Bug was something completely separate from the legal and administrative procedure. So in my opinion, no matter what form we adopt this bill, it's a reprivatization bill... what we call general reprivatization will be possible. Neither one option nor the other option closes the reprivatization bill. And I had the impression that Mr. Marshal had a different opinion on that. Be... I'd ask for clarification, because I think it's important to clarify the context. Well, in my opinion, no decision as to the shape of the code of administrative procedure does not block the reprivatisation law in a strict sense, which creates a new basis, new deadlines and creates a new time perspective for compensation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u132	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u133	Mr. Senator, of course, anything can be done, except this is the kind of legal breaker. Then why are we even adopting these laws? So let's assume that it's 10 years old and that after 10 years you can apply for a move, and let's adopt a reprivatization bill. After all, the genesis of this law was not about reprivatization issues at all, but about the fact that decisions made with gross violation of the law did not have deadlines. And that's what it was like. Some decision, I don't know, construction, any one that could be touched, I don't know, after 30 or 50 years. So, of course, that violated legal certainty. And the Court pointed out that, despite the weight and weight of the species, etc., the term must be. If we really wanted to adopt a reprivatization bill, this project would be very short. He would just say that there are 10 years, 30 years, after which there is no more procedure for 30 years. Then, after adopting something that would fill in the Court's statement, the government would bring the bill with reprivatisation. But it's not, and the previous reprivatization bill didn't see the light of day. It is therefore, unfortunately, reasonable to say that if all the conclusions are withdrawn, the cases that are pending... This means ending this process, not restoring it by means of a reprivatization bill. Mr. Senator, I've already said that formally anything is possible. Not that kind of legal breach in 30 years has been done. What's the point?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u134	Thank you. Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Second charge. The first one had character, I'd call it, more systemic. The point is that the law should be simple, uniform and so on. But the other one's moving on. Again, it is a comparison of two prints, what came to us from the Sejm, and what was proposed in the amendment. Incidentally, in the case of the vote, it was all at hand when it came to this amendment. Well, I'm going to quote one part of the justification, because he, in my opinion, matters when it comes to understanding the idea which, in this amendment, in a sense, perverts the judgment of the Court. Well, it is the legislator's duty to shape regulations that will promote I quote: In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. This is, as we know, a compromise between the principle of the sustainability of a decision understood as a limitation of measures that can eliminate a decision from the market and the rule of law understood in this situation as an order for the repeal of decisions taken in gross violation of the law. I think we all agree on that. We're not going to argue with that. But what did the Court point out? It's in this article. 156... [[Mr. Senator, we're in the middle of asking questions.]] It will be a question, Mr. Marshal. Let me explain. [[This is not the time for discussion and interpretation of the general law with which we all agree. Mr. Senator, this is about not having polemics...]] All right, Mr. Marshal. Contrary to appearances, these are not simple matters. [[This is not a place for polemics. We'll be able to speak up in a minute. There you go.]] But no one gets too excited to ask questions, so if I can, I'm done. Well, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, in art. 156 in §1 there are 7 points concerning shortcomings in administrative decisions. And the Court is right to say that, in fact, these are all flaws that could be defined. These are decisions taken with a gross violation of the law. They have a particular cause. This may be a decision taken in breach of the rules relating to a case previously settled or addressed to a non-Party in the case. The point we're dealing with... It is decisions taken with a gross violation of the law which are not described in other points. And what does the Court say? Because it's a matter of judgment, it's decisions. It is about point 2, I say it again, the decisions taken with a gross violation of the law should be eliminated more quickly from the legal system. I don't want to beat you with quotes here, but it's more or less... The indeterminate nature of the presumption of gross violation also increases legal risks over time, which involve the possibility of learning a different legal line, etc. I'm not explaining this anymore. What does all this mean? The period after which, in quotes, the possibility of moving a decision in the event of a condition under point 2 should be closed shall be, in accordance with that reasoning, shorter than in the case of other conditions, at most the same. And it's in the print that came from the Seym. This period is either 10 years to make a decision, or 30 years to compensate. And in the amendment, this period for condition number 2 is extended. So that's what's indeterminate, which can be the cause of, for example. such actions as, in quotes, Warsaw reprivatization, becomes simply further possible after this amendment. What does the Court say? It does not suggest what period should be adopted, but it follows from this statement that this should be a short period for the condition no. 2 because it covers everything that is not named in the other premises. Mr Marshal, therefore, I believe that this amendment is against the idea of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is fully consumed in the sejm printing that has come to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u137	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this is exactly what we were just talking about. You raised the matter of these terms. I have already replied that in the amendment I will report, I leave this record which came from the Sejm, i.e. covering this defect, let's call it, also a 10-year limitation period. In short, we're not gonna get into this. I don't want to start an academic discussion right now about whether it should be a longer period or it should be a shorter period. The problem with all these decisions is that it's not that, when it's decided, everyone knows what it is, whether it's lawful or illegal, whether it's issued by the competent authority or by the wrong authority. Sometimes you can see right away and act immediately and sometimes not necessarily. Besides, when you take action, they often go on. Therefore, how would it be such a short period as you would like, I don't know, five years or three years... [[No. I didn't say that.]] Well, you didn't say that. But this period would be less than 10 years, it's not nine years, is it? So let's say it would be five years or three years. Then it might turn out that the procedure itself, to determine that it was a gross violation of the law, would cross that period and it would be over. But I don't want to get into it because it's an academic dispute. I stress once again: in this amendment, which I will submit, this part of the bill remains unchanged, i.e. 10 years for all and 30 years without giving dates to no longer initiate any action by the state administration. That's what we're not touching in this future amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u138	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. There are no more questions. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Mrs Barbara Bartus has been authorised to represent the applicants. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Oh, you don't have an MP, do you? There is no Member. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I address you to Deputy Minister Sebastian Kaleta. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! The law adopted by the Sejm is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. As I pointed out at the committee meetings, not only is it the one that is directly referring to the article. 156. It also refers to other judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal which indicate the scope of protection of the Constitution against restitution claims, damages claims resulting from decisions of the Polish People's Republic authorities, as well as a time limit under the responsibility of the State Treasury of free Poland for actions and decisions taken by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. This law, if it were adopted only with regard to decisions which are currently... may be challenged, would lead to the effects which the Constitutional Tribunal... In fact, he stated that the entire process of reprivatisation after 1990, although more so after 1997, when the constitution came into force, was conducted in discord with this constitution. And the legislator faced a challenge to address such a far-reaching thesis resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Given the fact that social damage was caused by such a process of reprivatisation I am no longer talking about the gigantic measures, both the financial resources and the value of the real estate that were transferred in this process, returned, and we know that today there are still a lot of claims... The lack of an adequate response to the proceedings that are ongoing would be the agreement of the legislator that such damage, which also mentioned in his ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, should continue to be done. It was therefore necessary to clarify adequately what would happen to the pending proceedings. In view of the fact that every civil, restitution claim, in accordance with the rules of civil law, also has time limits, it was appropriate for the legislator to refer to this as well. The 30-year period chosen in the draft as the maximum time to conduct these proceedings in my opinion not only fulfils the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but is the only fair solution that results in the fact that unlike other economic situations which are generated by the relationship between the State Treasury and private entities... There can be no situation in which our country is responding forever in this matter. It's not fair, it's against the constitution. Therefore, this draft law... this law, which the Sejm adopted, is fully implementing these views of the Constitutional Tribunal arising from many cases in this area. I would like to refer to the amendment that was tabled by Senator Borowski and was also referred by him to make us aware of its potential scope. Namely, assuming that about 2 000 cases would be subject to remission in connection with the entry into force of this law because the proceedings did not end for 30 years... But, which is very important. Maybe I'll talk about it first. The process of reprivatization for 30 years had 2 stages. The first is to annul the decisions of the communist authorities or to declare them in breach of the law if there are irreparable legal effects. This is the first stage. Only the second step is proper restitution or compensation. And there are thousands of these proceedings. There are several thousand in Warsaw. As far as these restitution proceedings are concerned, their law does not affect them. In other ways, these procedures will also continue before administrative authorities. However, we also know about the scale of compensation cases, i.e. the second category, cases where irreparable legal effects have occurred and only damages claims have been brought. From the information of the Attorney General, we know that these cases are 400 before the courts, but the value of the subject matter of the dispute is 10 billion. It can be assumed statistically with a certain degree of probability that, under the assumption that in these 2 thousand cases, officials will quickly be able to decide whether to issue communist decisions in violation of the law, in a short period of time 2 000 additional claims will be generated for the amount of perhaps 40 billion PLN. That's the solution. Probably far beyond what the Constitutional Tribunal stated in various judgments. It is therefore worth it in this House to be aware of this before the senators decide. Because, first of all, this law simply points out, six years after the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, that these claims expire due to the passing of time. If I make a commitment or someone makes a commitment to me and doesn't do it, for example. He won't return the funds he promised to give me, and I have a certain time when I can demand that they be returned to the court. This is a much shorter time than 30 years, because it is a 10-year period. So why should it be that these 30 years are too much, why should these proceedings end? The effects of reprivatization, both financial and social, were already high enough for Poland, so that we would have to carry this burden with us... Furthermore, I would like to point out that Poland has never received any compensation related to the source of these problems because of this burden, which is still on us today. And the source of these problems on the one hand is the enormous destruction of war caused by the Germans, by their aggression, and on the other hand what was caused by the imposition of Poland, against the will of our nation, by the communist regime which generated and applied all these nationalization acts. Today, in a democratic state, it is stated that even against the law of that time. For these reasons, it appears that the law adopted by the Sejm is the most appropriate to solve the problem that the Constitutional Tribunal dealt with six years ago in its judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u140	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is related to what you have just said, namely that the last amendment we are talking about here, made by Marshal Borowski, can have very far-reaching legal consequences, because ultimately it simply has consequences for the state budget. It's about financial matters. Is it also related to the fact that, first, transitional provisions are changing and second, there is an extension of the vacathio legis period? Because that would mean that with a long vacathio legis and a different form of transitional rules it is possible to simply extend this, I would call it a permanent legal uncertainty, against which in a certain sense the Constitutional Tribunal protested in its judgment, for quite a long time. It would be possible, like, to inflate lawsuits and to inflate applications, in this case only for damages. The second question is different in character. Namely in these premises in the article. 156... there's seven of them. Right now, I'd call it a condition that's limited in time. If we adopt this law, regardless of which form, whether with or without an amendment There will be 2 reasons which, in my opinion, are very rare, but perhaps theoretically they are. Do you think that these time limits should be extended to the remaining 2 points in this article? 156, i.e. points 5 and 6 on the issue of shortcomings in administrative decisions, which can be followed Just touch it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u142	Mr. Senator, about the first question. In general, the amendment proposed in the committee in this form means rewriting this law, and that is because all the solutions proposed here have been, in fact, shaped according to the new philosophy. First of all, this amendment assumes that all the proceedings that are taking place will continue on the basis of the existing rules on the possibility of a decision, in this case the decision on no longer return issues and the issue of the compensation preliminary ruling. It is in this respect that this amendment potentially generates the financial risks that I have identified. Now the second line. Vacatio legis in terms of the entry into force of these solutions, which are in this amendment, causes that there is still time for possible decisions on return in nature. So the difference, given the scale of this amendment... She is in fact encouraging officials to close the case as soon as possible and direct applicants to court, because it is much easier for an official to issue a decision in violation of the law than to issue a flagrant violation of the law. The practice of civil servants is that when they know what the repercussions of social action are... We know this from the example of Warsaw, hearings before the Verification Commission many times showed that officials knew what the consequences of decisions could have on certain issues, and even more thoroughly searched for some evidence. And so officials will de facto be encouraged to close the proceedings quickly. Thus, the whole philosophy of this amendment makes reflections about a month or two months, with longer vacathio secondary legis due to the scale and scope of this amendment. In the light of the current wording of this law, which came out of the Sejm, the issue of vacathio legis is more debatable because a standard 30-day deadline has been adopted, and minor corrections in this respect would of course give rise to the risk that part of the decision would be issued in the current legal regime, but in a disproportionately smaller number than in the case of the amendment adopted by the committee. On the other hand, Mr. Senator, about... You'd remind me because I'm fired right now... [[Additional 2 grounds for annulment...]] Yeah, two reasons. This issue was raised during the session of the Sejm and such an amendment was tabled by the Left at that stage. However, in the course of the dynamics of the Sejm's work, there was a lack of such an available, rapid justification, an indication of why this amendment would be justified, because there were no examples of cases that would actually be covered by this regulation by taking into account these conditions, and there were some abstract risks which would have happened if this had been covered, e.g. in the case of a non-executable decision. After a certain period of time, it might appear that if a specific decision cannot be implemented, which remains in circulation, an attempt to enforce that decision, e.g. After 15 years, it may prove impossible. Thus, in this respect, leaving the time gap, in abstract terms, because during the committee meeting there were no known cases where these conditions could have been applied, indicated that certain problems could arise in this respect. This also applies to this condition relating to the offence. Later, after the Parliament's work, in discussions with other ministries, we looked at the case law of the courts in detail and it turns out that this condition of unenforceability can also be interpreted in terms of the objectives that this law regulates. So if this amendment in the wording in which it was tabled by the Left appeared in the Seym, it would rather deserve to be taken into account, but in general there are also arguments against regulation in this way. In this situation, it does not seem to be a priority. However, if such an amendment were to appear, it seems to me that it would undoubtedly complement the wording of this law. And the question of indicating that e.g. Courts or administrative bodies would be subject to a gross violation of the law to the impermanence of a decision... Somehow you can see it. The probability can be assessed as low, but I would not like to say it firmly, because judicial lines can evolve in an unpredictable direction, and in terms of reprivatisation they have done so repeatedly. In any case, this problem is currently purely hypothetical.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u143	Thank you. I have a question for you, Minister. The code of conduct applies to all, this is not a proceeding against a selected group of citizens or heirs. I know that in the Polish countryside many inheritance proceedings have not been initiated and this is how it works. Will this law make it difficult or impossible to carry out succession proceedings in respect of successions, suppose, before mid-1991? Well, it's been 30 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u144	Mr. Marshal, thank you for that question. If such doubts arise, it is good to dispel them. This law does not apply to succession proceedings. Succession proceedings are conducted in the regime of civil procedure, not administrative procedures. The investigation of succession decisions is not limited in time. There is a limited catalogue, order of acquisition of rights, finding the acquisition of inheritance, as well as certain... [[Thank you very much. Yeah, that's clear.]] Some constructions indicate that some judicial decisions are merely a statement of fact, not a granting of rights. That's very important, too. This bill doesn't apply at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u145	Thank you. I would also like to ask you, Minister... Of course, this law concerns Polish matters, it is a Polish law, but tell me what international repercussions this law brings. I'll tell you, I remember changing the I.P.N. Act, and how your colleague, with great confidence, claimed that there would be no repercussions, meanwhile... how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u146	Mr Senator, we are all aware that the representatives of some countries have already spoken on this issue. However, we are in the Polish Senate, we are working on the basis of the ruling of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal, we are solving difficulties which have happened to Poland perhaps due to various decisions of other countries... But rather to the detriment of Poland than the advantage. Yes, of course, this case is of interest. However, it seems to me that the essence of the Polish state's argument in this matter is that, together, also as a political class, we should point out to those third countries which are trying to interfere, in my view, in an unacceptable way in this legislative process... It is unacceptable that the connection between the Holocaust and this law is cynical, it is unacceptable, it is lying to the Polish history and suffering of Poles, Jews of Polish origin and, above all, oppressed by the communists of the Polish nation. Of course we are aware that this law abroad, in some countries there are not many friends, but this is our sovereign decision, which is beneficial for our country. We must not allow important internal affairs to be resolved to the detriment of our country, to the detriment of our society in relation to external expectations. The position of the Ministry, which I represent, has been clear since the beginning of the legislative process and since the moment of doubt, including those which have been discussed in this House in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u147	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... There's no senator. Then I'll ask Senator Mark Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm gonna start with that amendment I've been talking about before. I'm sure Senator Czerwiński has it. I would like to inform you that the amendment is as follows. Art. Article 1 shall not be amended. 2 (2) 1 shall not be amended and paragraph 1 shall be amended. 2, which says you're gonna drop everything immediately. This content shall be replaced by the following: if the administrative procedure referred to in paragraph is carried out. 1 was initiated 30 years after the date of service or notification of the decision and the circumstances referred to in Article take place. 156 §2 - nullity by law - Act as amended by Art. 1 as amended by this Law, the public administration shall declare the contested decision in breach of the law and shall indicate the circumstances for which it has not annulled the decision or order. So it's limited to... In fact, this is a repetition of the article. 158, who is talking about it, but the point was to make it pretty clear that just those things that are under way aren't going to die, and yet there are no phrases in nature. The only thing you can do is invoke the prejudice and go to court. And then there's the second line. This is an amendment that replaces the 30-day vacathio legis with a period of 3 months. So much for this amendment. I'll let you put it back together. But I would also like to comment a little on the Minister's statement. Today we are discussing this case definitely unemotionally, which is very good for us. First of all, the Minister started by saying that there must be some time limits, that the State cannot respond forever. So I would like to inform you that this bill, even with this amendment, absolutely prejudices that the State does not respond forever. This amendment completes the submission of further proposals. I'm not talking about the fact that he doesn't have any returns in nature anymore. Therefore, there is no longer any eternal reply. It's all about how we're gonna deal with things that are going on, whether we're gonna follow the constitution, among other things. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 77, which clearly states that no law can deny a citizen the right to a court of law, and I quote that at the moment it is not exactly written there, but that is the point. Or we'll just ignore it and adopt the solutions that are here. So that's the answer to the Minister's first fear. Eternal? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're done here. Second thing. As for the numbers that you've been kind to give, I think we should operate on the numbers that are officially given here. With regard to cases that are pending in courts, i.e. where the Treasury is represented by the prosecutor, the Minister was kind to say that there are 400 such cases and claims reach 10 billion zlotys. Well, I have here the Journal of the Legal Gazette of June 29th. Mariusz Haladyj, President of the Attorney's Office, who says there are 373 cases like this. This is close to 400, but the total amount of claims is PLN 5.7 billion. So not 10 billion, but 5.7 billion. Now, just because there are claims of 5,7 billion doesn't mean that such amounts will be settled. There was a patron present at the committee's meeting. I don't remember his name at the moment, which created a big study on this subject. He's been doing this all along for years. This study concerns all reprivatization processes: for which, for whom, etc. He also followed court judgments in damages cases and said that the legal line at the moment is, you might say, very economical. It means that the courts treat these claims very restrictively. Consequently, these amounts are in no way such as those in the action, in the application, are significantly lower. The best evidence is that it was from those compensations which were paid by the State Treasury that from 2001 to 2016, 4 000 710 individuals were paid out to 2 billion 200 million. I'm sure the claims were bigger, but the verdicts were like this. There are no 40 billion, maybe a few billion zlotys in all of these cases, and it's spread over time because court cases go on for 5, 6, 7 years. So I would suggest not to suggest numbers that can really scare you. There's no such thing here. The Minister was kind to say that we cannot pay for all the damage that the Germans have done, especially since they have not given us any repairs, compensations, etc. I'm not getting into historical issues right now about why we didn't get it. The fact that we didn't get it. It's just that this is a misunderstanding. We are talking about decisions which were taken with a gross violation of the law by the Polish State, whatever it was, but by the Polish State which issued its rights, issued decree one, decree two, about reform, about nationalization, about forests, I do not know, there were about 14 such acts. It issued these acts, after which it violated them with various decisions. What we are talking about are only those cases in which the authorities of the Polish State violated their own law, so here there is simply no question of abandoned property, of such stories. In conclusion, I will say that of course you can do anything. As regards this amendment, I stress: already limited It is also possible to try to get rid of everything, disregarding any civilized standards, constitution, law practice, etc. Yeah, you can. If there were any other important arguments that would convince us of this, it could be discussed, but they are not, there is definitely no financial, and all the other arguments suggest that this matter needs to be dealt with in a civilised manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u149	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing the problem of reprivatization not the first time. During this term we had already had the opportunity to discuss this, also during the previous term of office, on the occasion of Warsaw land, there was a lively discussion. It can be said that such a general conclusion as the result of these discussions is basically one: in my opinion, the Polish state after 1989 is shadowed by the fact that no laws or laws have been adopted, because it depends on what concept to win, reprivatizations, which would rationally order property matters in the territory of the Republic of Poland and correct those harms that have been done. And since that's the kind of harm we know perfectly well. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Those decrees, the nationalization, the agricultural reform, the Warsaw lands, the forests... These decrees, these different solutions were many, and the practice was different. If someone consistently defended their small property, even in the communist reality he could defend it, I am talking about small property. But there were also situations, that in violation of the decree, for example. There was no 50 ha at court or palace, all the property was taken away In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market of PKWN. High Izbo, I think this bill we're debating doesn't close the story. We'll get back to that. And what worries me a little is the lack of such strong political will At the moment, I can talk about political will, because the economic and social aspects are a bit of a separate issue. To carry out the reprivatization act. And regardless of who has ruled in Poland over the last years, this problem has not been solved. Mr. Marshal Borowski rightly mentioned that the only law of the Senator's colleagues with whom we were sent back then were here. It was the Law of the AWS of 2000 that passed the entire legislative path in the Polish Parliament. And, as you mentioned, the marshal was vetoed by President Aleksander Kwasniewski. It was the only law that passed, notabene in pain was born, there was a long discussion and many issues were raised on this occasion. Later, no project has come this far in the legislative process. And it is a pity, because if this law were adopted then, with all its shortcomings we would have this problem resolved, we would also have no international problems, which in connection with the reprivatization complex appear, and we would have an attempt to come up with some solution to these difficult issues. It happened, unfortunately, differently. I'm afraid, as I mentioned, that this subject will be discussed for a long time, we will return to it. And on this occasion I would like to draw attention to a few myths or, let's say, stereotypes that have emerged around reprivatization. The first myth is that it's a thieving reprivatization. In a sense justified by pathologies that occurred, especially in terms of Warsaw land, although not only, because not only in Warsaw there were irregularities in this process. And I'm already ignoring the way the tenants are treated or the issues that the real estate has been returned, for example. it was not built until the end of the war, because it was simply in a strict unclosed state, and the whole property was returned, which, for example, was returned. After the war, it was exhausted by the forces of the tenants and settled by them. I know these specific situations from the past. And that's one thing that's come up. The second point is that the issue of reprivatization concerns a very narrow group of people who were overly wealthy in the pre-war period and who simply earned this property sort of on human harm, and therefore, in a sense, the act of social justice has been carried out, that this property has been taken over by the state or in some other way socialized. It is also a false myth, because as a result of these decrees, hundreds of thousands of people lost their property, including small owners of specific properties, small factories, companies that were. After all, this property was also subject to nationalisation. So that we are dealing with certain stereotypes which in the public opinion create very much such, I would say, an emotional attitude around the issue of reprivatization, but there is not or rather relatively little of this substantive discussion. So I am glad that right now we have a chance to discuss this, that we are discussing it in the Senate and that this is done in a way, I would say, substantive, with a focus on different points of view. Now yes: ad substance, as a rule. Well, it's right. Because there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court in order at some point to close the possibility of touching administrative decisions. It can't go on forever. But on the other hand, the question is how to do it wisely. And I think that the issue in this House is about the amendment by Marshal Borowski concerning precisely whether to leave these matters that are going on, whether to adopt the law in an absolutely, literally the version in which it was adopted in the Sejm. There is also the question of how the Senate will behave and what will happen next to this law in the Sejm. Depending on what form this bill will leave the Senate At the same time, I presume that this bill will come out with at least one amendment from the Sejm. So the question is, what will he do next with this Sejm Act and what will he do next with this President, who, let's not forget, is also a participant in the legislative process. These are questions that I have no answers to, of course, I cannot say here. In any case, however, different opinions are heard. I generally believe that reprivatisation should be carried out. 'Cause I am, I was, and I'm gonna be a big fan of the reprivatization bill. I also believe that the results of various incidental laws and beneficiaries of reprivatisation cannot be differentiated. And let me remind you that there is still a whole area of issues related to the property in question, in the case of which the so-called. former owners or their successors may apply for a refund of 20% of this property, which was in the territory of the Second Republic and which was lost as a result of changes in the borders of the Polish state. There are a whole range of people who have very small property and who are unable to employ adequate legal assistance to carry out the reprivatisation process under the current rules. It is a group that is de facto in the most difficult situation. Because those who had a large mass of assets can afford professional, specialised legal services for these proceedings and they are able to carry out a significant amount of the matter effectively. So the scale of the injustices that are taking place in the course of the reprivatization process is enormous, in my opinion. And the question of the honor of the Polish state is that in a fair, honest way, taking into account the budgetary realities... 'Cause I'm pointing out that talking about returning in nature right now is 100%. Well, that's not an option, that's not an option. But the reprivatization bill. whether reprivatization laws, if taken into account lex specialis in the form of a decree on Warsaw land, should be made. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, welcome those who have expressed their satisfaction that this debate is going on in peaceful conditions. I already at the committee meeting and in several public speeches formulated the opinion that I consider this law in this version, which was passed on to us by the Sejm, to be legitimate and constitutionally acceptable. But for starters, I'm gonna tell you what we know. We know for sure that the current legal situation is inconsistent with the constitution. That's what we know for sure. Not that the law that came out of the Sejm is incompatible with the Constitution, but that the current legal state is incompatible with the Constitution, because this is the case with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which questioned the absence of a time limit in the procedure for challenging the legality or validity of the administrative decision. And please note that this was not a judgment taken on account of the administrative procedure itself, only this was a judgment taken when considering the constitutionality of Warsaw's reprivatization law, taken in a specific context, i.e. in the context of the abuse of administrative law for purposes that have little in common or even nothing to do with this reprivatisation that Senator Jackowski was just talking about. If a mistake has been made, it is such that it has not been executed immediately and is executed after 6 years, because the Constitutional Tribunal has taken this decision in a specific context, in the context of fraud. Now, what the... I understand that this matter of deadlines, given what Marshal Borowski has said, is already going sideways, but that's what the expertise was about. Prof. Piotrowski argued that the 10-year period as a limit for annulment is incompatible with the Constitution. I argued that this was absolutely acceptable, because the team involved in the reform of the Code of Administrative Procedure during the time of the government of PO-PSL proposed a 10-year term, which is the same as in the case of other criteria, and this is written in the expert opinion, so the legislator was free to do so. As for the citizen's right to court... It is not an absolute law. After all, we would not wish that administrative decisions taken in the 1920s could normally be undermined. It would be possible if we hadn't established any time limits. Finally, there is this issue of pending proceedings. It is worth saying a few words or even more than a few words. There are civil proceedings in progress that no one moves. In fact, I did not hear what this value of the dispute was about: civil proceedings or administrative proceedings. That wasn't said. Well, rationally speaking, it's probably just civil proceedings, because actions aren't brought after administrative proceedings. Thus, it can be assumed that these data relate to civil proceedings, not civil proceedings, which will be the result of administrative proceedings in the future. But maybe I'm wrong. However, no one asked the question of the structure of the value of the dispute. Yeah, but we do have some data that's defective. There is a letter from the mayor of Sucha Beskidzka, who says: we have returned a substantial part of the property in the reprivatization mode, then we have bought back what we have returned, because it is extremely important from the point of view of the symbolism of the city, and we still have disputes with the owners for a total of 9 million. Perhaps this is an absolute exception. But I'm thinking, in big cities, it's definitely more than $9 million, and it's not millions, it's just a few billion. Good, we shouldn't be scaring big money. Well, let's say it's a few billion, not a dozen billion. I think it is worth answering Senator Jackowski's appeal here, which I understand as an appeal for an open discussion on this matter. Yes? We have to tell ourselves in the name of what value we are going to continue to pay compensation, even if it's 5 or 7 billion, not 20 billion. What's the value? In the name of what should we do after 70 years of expropriation decisions and after 30 years of free Poland? After all, these are not claims of victims, but, in so literal terms, claims of victims' grandchildren, relatives of victims, as well as those who have bought inheritance rights, i.e. people who are not related to the affected families at all. I can identify the constitutional values that dictate the economy in this case. This is the implementation of the constitutional right to health care at the Western European level, that is the quality of educational services, that is, finally, an intelligent housing policy for young people, which we are looking forward to. Is he indifferent to what we're paying for? Is that indifferent? In my opinion, it's not indifferent. And it would certainly not be indifferent if these amounts were to amount to more than PLN 5 or 7 billion after such a lapse of time, i.e. 70 years after the damage and 30 years since the independent Polish state existed. It is worth considering whether the society that is facing the emigration of young people and should make a great effort to stop this emigration that is facing a housing problem that is suffering from the quality of state services. It is a difference between us and Western Europe that can afford to spend sums that may seem small, but are important for local communities, sometimes very important. I'm putting this problem on the table because he's a constitutional problem, too. We know that the implementation of constitutional values requires the budgetary capacity of the state. It's worth a bet. I have tabled an amendment extending the vacathio legis, but I find no reason to support amendments other than the amendment extending the vacathio legis to 3 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's start with a quote that always defends itself, a quote from the justification of the Constitutional Court's judgment six years ago. On the one hand, the legislator cannot declare the sustainability of the decision in view of its finality and on the other hand provides for the possibility of moving the decision on the basis of which the party acquired the law or the expetition. In particular, this is the case where there is an open and unclear indication (a defect) of a gross infringement which, in fact, complements situations of gross infringement other than those expressly described in the remainder of the calculation contained in Article. 156 §1. In other words, what the legislator could have found, foresaw, as regards the shortcomings of the administrative decision, was included in points 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of that §1, and all that was not specified and could satisfy the conditions for the failure of the administrative decision was called an infringement of the law and placed in point 2. But what does this statement mean by justification? First of all, as I understand it, we're talking about law right now. We will no longer argue, there will be no dispute here as to whether this sentence should be executed in exactly the way it is suggested. It's clear, it needs to be done. He defends himself from a logical point of view. But, secondly, here is also a clue that we cannot increase any time after which we cannot issue a decision annulling or annulling the previous decision, in particular for condition 2, because it is, first, indeterminate and second, difficult to command. What does that mean? That the maximum possible time should be equal... How much? Well, just as much as is currently in the Code of Administrative Procedure, i.e. 10 years if the decision is moved This is one of the terms, one of the periods. And the second term is 30 years, possibly on, let's call it, damages claims. The attempts to extend this period, whether in fact, by typing into the text of the law or indirectly, and the indirect means is precisely this, rather than another, the shape of the transitional provisions... That's what I'm talking about, the different versions. But it can already be said that some of the transitional provisions proposed during the work on this law were further, more significant than the substantive provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we actually operated on five different states of law. The first one is the one that exists right now. Although the judgment of the Constitutional Court is clear, precise, it clearly indicates what the legislator should be guided by in its execution, the lack of its enforcement has caused legal status to remain unchanged since 2015. It's just the present c.p.a. The second is a project which was addressed to the Sejm, a draft amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure, which is actually historic in print no. 1090. The Sejm itself found that, firstly, it does not fully implement the Court's judgment, and secondly, more importantly, it has logical contradictions. The third is already a bill... our print number 437, which is what came out of the Sejm, has been voted out, thought through. Perhaps there could be some change here, I'd call it change, but certainly not in the basics. And there are three basic issues here. And finally, the next project is the one that our committee But, as I say, in total, after the vote almost half in half, with the advantage of one vote, she submitted to us in print no. 437 A. Unfortunately, this last draft is probably the most far removed from the idea of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. And it is good that the authors have withdrawn from the amendments they propose here, albeit not of all. Because this fifth project, which you spoke about, the rapporteur too, Marshal Borowski, is still flawed. Where? Well, the flaws here, in the one-page text may not be too much, but they are. Ladies and gentlemen, depending on which project we're considering, it's... Each of them is unfortunately Or maybe it's for luck. A bit different, but everyone can be judged in terms outlined by the Constitutional Tribunal, I would call it, forks that we have to take into account when drawing up the bill. Simple case, three substantive issues. First of all, material regulations. They're practically undisputed at the moment, after the last amendment, which means they're just like print number 437. Secondly, transitional provisions. I would remind you that the wrong wording of the transitional provisions makes the law as a whole go in the opposite direction to the Court's judgment... The Constitutional Tribunal clearly states that this matter must be dealt with categorically and in the case of this condition, as soon as possible, because it is the most careless of all. And finally, the matter of vacathio legis. Well, the vacathio legis period is the time to adapt... What exactly is it for? To adapt to the new state of law. Let's say we're setting up a new institution. This institution must exist, must be created, created, etc. I have a question: who is the recipient of this standard, which is in this bill? First of all, those who wish to obtain a judgment are to annul the administrative decision. And then there's ten years and 30 years. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as it takes to decide... Well, those are the dates here. Ten years to file a lawsuit? No, I'm sorry, a request for a decision, because first the administrative procedure... And what is surprising about this bill? Well, somebody's gonna say, "Oh, yeah, that's a new state of law." But this state of law has been since 2015, which is six years ago. If anyone had any doubts as to whether the decision concerning his property Okay, let's get this straight. It is issued in violation of the law, grossly in breach of the law or not, it has already had 6 years to file this application. How? He's still supposed to adapt? Why this period of vacathio legis? I ask someone to explain to me from the country, maybe those who want to extend the vacathio legis as much as possible in this case. What's the point of that? In addition to the fact that a long period of vacathio legis goes beyond the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Once again, three substantive aspects: substantive, transitional provisions, i.e. Intertemporal, and that's the vacathio legis. I think this project is optimal and the best at the moment. Well, actually, there's already a bill. I will vote for this bill if possible. And so much for legal issues, either inefficiently or inefficiently presented. There are also historical and political issues. As for politics... Not a word, Mr. Marshal, right? [[No, no...]] And what the... [[I'm just signaling that time...]] I see. As for history, one sentence... [[You're the last one on the list, so I'll give you five minutes...]] Good. We're on our way. One sentence on history, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we know where these things come from. The first reason is that in 1939 two aggressors invaded our country, occupied our territory. And the second reason is that one of these aggressors gained domination over our country after the end of World War II and we were a non-sovereign state, and it was very non-sovereign. Our state in some places was simply facaded, we did not make our own decisions as a nation. We didn't give any reason for it, we fought during World War II... I'm not gonna talk truism, but some things have to be clearly repeated. We fought from the first day to the last day of the war in Europe, we suffered proportionally the greatest territorial, population, material, cultural and other losses. And in return, we were treated as winners, not winners, but, unfortunately, losers. We're in another captivity, 45 years old. And now you're trying to get away from us... [[On the other hand...]] Of course, these are all lies according to Mr. Marshal Borowski. Well, you try to get from us in an unauthorized, a little insolent way, what you just don't belong to certain entities. If the category of baseless enrichment exists also in international law, then this is it. That's what he's trying to force on us. We're not gonna tell you who's doing this, and we're not gonna tell you how it's done, either. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the last nation, the last country to pay for World War II and its consequences. We are the first country, the first nation, the first nation to be compensated by the consequences of World War II, the losses we suffered during this war. If this is not said officially in certain places, then by the end of the world and one day longer we will be attacked by Polish death camps, which are, of course, false. This is, of course, false, prepared, among others. for the kind of action that was attempted here. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Chybick, Bladder, Gromko and Swede made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Necessary, Senator Ujazdowski, Senator Libicki, Senator Borowski. The discussion is closed. I would ask the Minister to take the floor, precisely because legislative proposals have been submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u156	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I'd take it short, maybe a little bit by the title of such a little correction, in order, integrity. In fact, the numbers I gave you, and the numbers that Senator Borowski was straightening up, were the result of my oversight. Indeed, the amount of 5 billion 600 million is closer to the current state of the claims brought before the courts, which is the value of the subject matter of the dispute. Consequently, the multiplication of these amounts by 2 000 cases At least 2,000, because there could be more of these things. This indicates that there is a possibility of disputes of PLN 25.30 billion. That would be the case if this amendment, also the new amendment tabled by Senator Borowski and Senator Klich, were taken into account, because it de facto assumes the release of the prejudices against all pending cases, the compensation prejudicates. No, account shall be taken of any refunds in nature which, in accordance with this amendment, could be implemented within 3 months. I would therefore like this issue to be clear to the High House, which will deal with the adoption of this amendment. Its financial impact in my view would be far-reaching and very severe.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. The draft is contained in print No 395 and the committee's report In print No 395 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is a draft law in which the Senate proposes the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The case itself was pending as a result of a request from a former ombudsman. As a curiosity, I will tell you that the application was lodged at the end of December 2015 and was not withdrawn from the Court. We remember that, there was a discussion that the Ombudsman withdrew his applications, but he did not withdraw it. Overall, the RPO questioned some of the provisions relating to safeguards contained in the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Enforcement Penal Code. The Court referred, as I said, only in the previous year, in 2020. In his judgment, he stated that Art. The first sentence of the first sentence in conjunction with Article 374 (1). 380, in conjunction with Article. 354 point 2 of the Law on Criminal Procedure, in so far as it does not provide for the mandatory presence of the suspect referred to in Article. 380 of this law, at the hearing of the prosecutor's application for termination of proceedings due to the insanity of the perpetrator, is incompatible with the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I will not, of course, quote all these articles to you, but in plain language, the point is that at the moment when the prosecutor's request is being considered, whether to apply a protective measure to the suspect in the form of placing him in a closed facility, such a suspect should be present in the initial stages of the hearing or in the sitting. Until the judgment was delivered, it was so that, as far as the sitting is concerned, the standard was that at the time of the hearing such a defendant or accused person was present. And that was the rule, although there were exceptions to that rule. As for the trial, he could have been present if he had given his consent, if he had expressed his desire, but it was not a rule, it was not an obligation. The Constitutional Tribunal has rightly stated here that both the question of the right to court in Article. 45, as well as the question of freedom from Article. 41 Constitutions should be protected in this case and therefore passed such a sentence rather than another. We dealt with this sentence at one of the meetings of the Legislative Commission. The result of our work was printing 395. After first reading, these provisions were supplemented by 2 additional supplementary provisions. At the moment, we propose that you complement the article. In the case of a prosecutor's application for termination of proceedings due to the insanity of the perpetrator and for measures to safeguard the suspect's presence at the hearing during the activities referred to in Article. 385 and 386 are mandatory; the suspect does not take part in the hearing if it appears from the expert's opinion that this would not be advisable unless the court considers his participation to be necessary. Plus 2 rules, I'd call that, order, about issuing an order to bring a person who's deprived of liberty to trial, and one order of appeal to the rule we're adding. And just one more thing. Art. 386 talks about the beginning of the main hearing, at which the charges are simply presented and, if so, the defendant is heard, what he has to say about the case relating to the trial. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the day of the announcement. This is the project we propose to refer to the Sejm. I would ask the High House to vote on it in this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions, so thank you very much to the senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister. Hello, Mr. Marcin Warchoł, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We fully support the committee's proposal. We believe that the right to personal freedom is such an important constitutional right... Moreover, in the judgment cited here, the Constitutional Tribunal has made clear that the right to the defendant's participation in such a hearing is not sufficient, it is necessary to introduce an obligation. This was the main subject of the hearing before the Constitutional Tribunal, because I will remind you, Art. 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the person for whom protective measures are applied, the rules on the accused. And there we read that the accused has the right to participate in the proceedings and the obligation to participate only in 2 cases; this applies to crimes, as well as to situations where the court considers it necessary. And the Court found that such a right is not sufficient, because a person who is insane may not be aware of the substance of the matter, may not be aware of the need to be heard and of the many other procedural guarantees that he has. And the fact that we're going to notify her of her right to participate is not enough. She may not be able to read it enough, which is why it is necessary to introduce an obligation. It may seem that the court's approach is too paternal, even over-warranty. You might say that if we give someone the right to come, he may have the right to give it up. However, the Court found that, in some cases, such as: such as the insanity of a person and the application to him of the strictest restriction of civil rights, namely the limitation of personal liberty, it is necessary to introduce an obligation, to force that person to take part in the hearing. This was already foreseen in the case of court meetings, and here there was such inconsistency that this obligation was in the case of court meetings, and not in the case of court hearings. Therefore, the judgment of the Constitutional Court is as valid as possible and the proposal is well founded. And that's what we're totally inclined to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u161	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to support this initiative very briefly. These are very good solutions, absolutely. I am not going to go into detail right now, because Senator Czerwiński has very, very carefully explained it to us, and also the Minister has added a few words. So that on our part there is support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not always have situations where we have such a uniform position in the case of legislative changes, but here it can be no different. Contrary to appearances, we are also not talking about situations that are extremely rare, because the number of perpetrators who have been asked to take a protective measure and who have subsequently been dismissed in the case of insanity was... E.g. In 2017, there were 1 000 685 such cases. I use the word "coincidences," but these are situations where we actually deal with people who, in the current legal regulations... Well, to put it mildly, we may have an inefficient system of reaching out to such people with information about the rights they have, in a way that a person is able to use. So that this is a very necessary amendment, extremely important. I am pleased that it has come to the Senate and I hope that tomorrow we will complete work on this extremely necessary draft legislative initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the publication of normative acts and certain other legal acts and the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to remind you that this draft has been submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 396, and the committee's report In print No 396 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights of the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mamytkow, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment aims to enable the applicant to object in a constitutional complaint not to disclose his personal data in all decisions published in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, their justifications and separate sentences and in decisions published in official journals. In addition, the draft law provides for the removal of errors and linguistic inconsistencies. On 18 May 2021, the draft law of the Senate Marshals addressed to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committees at their joint meeting on 7 July 2021 examined the draft law presented by the applicants at first reading and request that the draft law and the draft resolution be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I invite Anna Tyśkiewicz-Mazur, Vice President of the Government Legislative Center.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the Government's Legislative Centre vis-à-vis the draft law was already presented in a letter of 15 June addressed to the President of the Legislative Commission and presented at a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which took place on 7 July. In line with this position, the Governmental Legislative Centre fully shares the need for regulation that concerns the anonymity of data in the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal prior to their publication in the Official Journal. Such regulation is necessary because of the constitutional principle of protection of the right to privacy, as well as the provisions of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. GDPR. As a general rule, the position of the government centre is positive, but our reservations raise a solution which requires the anonymity of the rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal on the authority which issues the Official Journal. In our view, anonymity should be carried out in advance of the referral of the decision to the announcement. Therefore, the Government Legislative Centre should receive a ruling that has already been non-notified. These reservations are justified by several issues of a systemic nature. First and foremost, the role of the publication body is to publish legal acts and therefore this body should not interfere with the content of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It should be given a ruling which, following the necessary formal steps, can be published in the Official Journal without amendment. Secondly, the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal sets out the scope of the data contained in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this respect, there is also an indication of the entity which initiated the proceedings before the Court. It therefore appears that the provisions on data anonymity should also be included in this law, namely the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Court and should therefore be implemented by the legal services of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thirdly, the anonymity of the data proposed in the proposal will concern the publication of both in a set of case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and in an official journal. Therefore, it seems unreasonable that for the purposes of announcing the judgment in the Court's case-law, the services of the Court should be made anonymous, and that another body, in fact the body publishing the judgment, carried out that decision in the official register of anonymity. This is doing 2 times exactly the same thing. Another argument, as it seems, most important, is that anonymity is primarily intended to protect the right to privacy and this is the fundamental objective of the Senate bill. Therefore, in order to achieve this objective as fully as possible, anonymity should be carried out at the earliest possible stage, i.e. before the judgment is passed on to the public, since, since the complainant has prohibited the non-disclosure of his personal data, there is no need and, in principle, justification for this data being transmitted to a larger circle of persons than is necessary. At this point in time, the transmission of this data to the publication body clearly increases the circle of persons having access to the data. And finally, that's the case. There is also a risk involved in the senate procedure, as the publication body would have to make anonymity after obtaining information that the complainant had warned that his personal data had not been disclosed. We can assume that such situations may occur, that as a result of some more specific circumstances, this information will not reach the publication body. Of course, such situations, if they occur, will probably be very rare, but it is possible to completely exclude this risk by making this anonymity before passing the judgment to the announcement. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Governmental Legislative Centre believes that it is necessary to introduce rules on the anonymity of the data contained in the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, but this anonymity should be made before the decision is sent to the notice. As regards the editorial changes that are proposed in this draft law, of course, the Centre takes a positive view of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czelej, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u170	Mr Marshal, Madam President, from the statements made by the President, I conclude that this law does not fully satisfy you. In general, you are in favour of this bill, but with certain reservations. Are you suggesting an amendment to the bill? How does the President see the solution to the reservations that the President has just presented to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u171	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u172	In general, the introduction of data anonymity regulation is very much needed. This is not called into question by the Government's Legislature Centre, but under consideration is another solution for the anonymity procedure itself. We, as a government center, can't make any adjustments. The decision that will be made depends on the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u173	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Madam President! As gently as I can tell you, it is not appropriate to make these comments today. You were invited to a committee meeting. No one came from you, there were no comments. [[Vice President of the Government Legislative Center Anna Tyśkiewicz-Mazur: Former.]] Really? [[Vice President of the Government Legislative Center Anna Tyśkiewicz-Mazur: Yes.]] I don't remember. I don't know... We're above political divisions here. I don't recall having any discussion about this. If I'm wrong, and of course I can be wrong... We are on this committee with Senator Mathematical and Senator Sewerynski for many years, and I do not recall any amendments being proposed in this regard. Of course we can go back to that. We'll go through the transcripts. If it turns out that you have been here, you have proposed amendments, then I will absolutely withdraw. That would mean that our Legislative Office did not accept these proposals. I honestly don't remember that. If you were, I apologize in advance for the mistake. I don't recall that. Anyway, before I spoke, we exchanged comments with Senator Mathematical. If there are real errors there, we will not change it today, but, of course, we declare full cooperation as a committee. That's not a political problem. That's a problem. purely legislative, technical, legal. We're open. We need to get back to that. If you really think it's a mistake, we'd be very happy to talk. Welcome to the committee. We can work on that with our Legal Office. We are available at any time, but, as I say, I do not recall our conversation at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Czelej, Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President drew attention to important concerns about the project. Here I would like to appeal to the Chairs of the Legislative Commission to take part in an initiative on the proposed changes together at the committee meeting and to introduce such a senate initiative. I share the view of my previous speaker, the senator. It's too bad we're talking about this right now. I suggest that we adopt the Act as it stands and work as soon as possible on the amendments to the Act, as suggested by the President. For my part, I recommend supporting this bill, with a slight regret that we are only hearing about amendments today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u177	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. The president still asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u178	I would like to refer to this information that it has not been reported at an earlier stage of legislative work... It's not. The official position of the Government Legislative Centre addressed to the President of the Legislative Commission was communicated on 15 June. These reservations I was talking about today were expressed in this position. Moreover, this position was also presented at the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which took place on 7 July. Therefore, the problems I am signalling today are not the problems that have been raised to you for the first time. All these issues have been raised since the first stage of the work on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u179	Thank you very much. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and is included in print No 390 and the committee report In print No 390 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Joanna Sekuła, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the work of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. On 29 April, the Marshal sent the draft law to these committees and on 7 July the joint committees discussed the draft at a joint meeting. Following the amendments to the bill, the joint committees voted in favour of the second reading: 29 votes were in favour, 5 against and 6 senators abstained. The essence of the project is to extend the catalogue of entities that may request the creation of an energy cooperative. Under the current Renewable Energy Act, energy cooperatives are only rural municipalities and rural and urban municipalities. The possibility of extending the catalogue of entities to municipalities equalizes the opportunities of all citizens in terms of access to free association and the use of this good, the freedom to engage in business. The concept of energy cooperatives is derived from cooperative law and from the law on farmers' cooperatives. In these 2 laws, and in particular in the cooperative law, this freedom of association of members of the cooperative is defined as unlimited. It is defined in such a way that the unlimited number of persons with variable membership and variable equity fund can carry out a common economic activity. On the other hand, as regards the law resulting from the Farmers' Cooperatives Act, this is the 2018 Act, which extended the possibilities offered by the 1982 cooperative law, where the operators of agricultural rings and labour cooperatives are also defined. But unfortunately, this trend in legislation, which goes towards clarification and increasing parameterization, is that the law on farmers' association is quite limited. With regard to the very essence of the concept of energy, this project, which we bring to the meeting of the High House, assumes a fundamental extension of the ability of energy cooperatives to operate in terms of consumption, storage and sale of electricity, biogas or heat compared to the current generation. This is directly due to the implementation of the RED II directive, which just assumes that citizens who are interested in operating on the RES market also have the possibility to sell, store and consume, and not just manufacture. The consequence of this is also the abolition of restrictions which result from the size, i.e. the number of members who can form an energy cooperative, and the amount of factors produced, i.e. the amount of electricity, cubic meters of gas and heat volume. There is an additional limitation that has been left here. as if in some consequence of the previous wording of the bill. It is assumed here that the electricity, biogas or heat trade will not constitute a core activity for the energy cooperative. This means that this primary, most important function of an energy cooperative, i.e. production, will continue to be a dominant activity. In addition, the amendments which have been tabled clarify the provisions of the Act, which are directly due to the repeal of the Article. 38k, that is, the one who introduces quantitative restrictions. The amendment was aimed at ensuring that the Director of KOWR, who is the entity competent to register the cooperative, could not refuse to register the cooperative as a result of the abolition of restrictions. As far as the other side of the project is concerned, in addition to this formal part, it is a very important reason why we brought this draft law to the proceedings of the High House, were the expectations of citizens, especially those who create housing cooperatives and housing communities, whose size is considerable in cities. Therefore, this inequality in the treatment of operators has given us reason to benefit from the excellent designs that operate in the countries of the European Union and throughout Europe, where there are currently more than 3.5 thousand energy cooperatives, which sometimes have 100 members and sometimes have 60 000. Thus, this diversity of energy cooperatives, the diversity of their scope, fits perfectly in the direction of the proposed High Chamber of Changes. At a time when we started working on the amendment of this law, the first energy cooperative, i.e. the first entry in the KOWR register appeared. This is a small cooperative, you can say, because the installed power on photovoltaics is just 1/100 MW, and additionally... It's important. This kind of disagrees with the trend we heard about at the committee meeting, the trend to equalise the chances of rural communities, because the cooperative was established in the Pruszków district. It is indeed composed of three neighbouring municipalities, and the municipality of Raszyn is one of the richest municipalities in Poland, it is a municipality with very highly developed infrastructure and very high population density. Since the bill is very citizen-friendly, it offers an opportunity to launch a large civic activity, it also allows for the creation of some new, interesting local organisms for citizens, me and Senator Gawłowski We're an applicant. We will ask the High House to adopt this draft law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Yes, please.]] You're welcome, Minister Ireneusz Gains. I don't know if the Minister wants to stay there or if he prefers to be on the stand. It's up to you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: I can stay here if the Marshal permits.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! Thank you so much for inviting me. Thank you for the opportunity to take part in this important discussion on the future of the electricity system in Poland, and de facto on solutions for the development of renewable energy sources, especially the form that we can call distributed energy, expressed in the activity of local energy communities, namely energy cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, in the opinion of the Minister for Climate and Environment, and in the opinion of the government's representative for renewable energy sources, renewable energy sources are the cornerstone of the development of the local energy dimension, the foundation for ensuring energy security, especially in this local dimension. The role of distributed energy is growing more and more, as evidenced by a dynamic increase in the number of prosumers in our country. This is the result of the conscious policy of the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, but of course also the Ministry of Climate and Environment working together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In December 2015, there were some more than 4 thousand prosumers in Poland, i.e. persons who are both consumers and producers of electricity for their own use. That's the definition of prosumer. Today, in July 2021, according to estimates 'Cause there isn't an official message yet. There are about 650 thousand of them. This is a spectacular growth, especially visible since 2019, when we introduced with great success a priority programme with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which expresses up to 50% of the value of photovoltaic installation, not more than PLN 5 000. The first edition started in 2019 and the second in 2020 and is currently underway in the third edition, which started on 1 July this year. It assumes a co-financing of PLN 3 000, but not because we do not have the right funds. Such funds are, of course, guaranteed, although we are seeing a huge increase in the number of these installations on the market and also an increase in the prices of installation companies, which follow each type of programme. When we have subsidies, public funding, there is an increase in the prices of services provided in a given sector on the market. This is not only a specific feature of prosumer micro-installations. In addition, very important In 2016 the so-called "Renewable Energy Sources" model was introduced on the basis of this discussion. drains from 1 to 0.7 and from 1 to 0.8. This was based on the fact that the prosumer could depending on the size of the installation. To 10 kW it was a conversion factor of 1 to 0,8, and above 10 kW to 50 kW the conversion factor of 1 to 0,7 is stored, as if stored virtually in the electricity grid for a period of one year. This settlement took place in the annual cycle and closed with the final financial statement. This is a very beneficial form for those who have decided to become prosumers. By the way, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, these conditions which we have introduced for the development in Poland of distributed energy, just prosumers, have no precedent in the European Union. These are the best, most favourable conditions in Europe, in the European Union. And they caused a spectacular increase in the number of prosumer photovoltaic installations in our country. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have regulated the billing model of energy cooperatives, which as larger production organisations also received such a model of clearing of waste, but from 1 to 0.6. So more price, more value must be paid by energy cooperatives for storing this energy in the system. For now, we're here for energy cooperatives at the beginning of the road. The first and so far only energy cooperative was registered by the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre on 20 May 2021. I had the great privilege of attending this event at the invitation of the interested parties themselves. And I support the development of such initiatives. However, with regard to the Senate bill, I would like to say further that the development of energy cooperatives will be examined. Currently, a government bill amending the Renewable Energy Act is being examined in the Seym. It's a 1129 seym print. Today, a few hours earlier, a meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets was held, where the same government project was being conducted. I, of course, very much appreciate the interest of the senators and the entire Senate in the field of renewable energy sources, but I would like to inform the High House that such important regulations, affecting the functioning of the National Energy System, as well as the implementation of directives, including the Market Directive and the RED II Directive, should absolutely go through the government path, which allows for a very broad public consultation, involving all stakeholders, not only prosumers and participants, or those interested in setting up energy cooperatives, but also companies dealing with energy distribution or electricity transmission. Also, the Freight Energy Exchange, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, all professional entities in the policy area or business area and the NGO environment that operate in this area, in the full legislative path, have a unique chance for their voice to be fully heard and taken into account. The path of the Senate project is limited. From what the Senator rapporteur of the committee has presented, I conclude that the ambitions of the Senate committee for the implementation of the directive are, ladies and gentlemen, limited, only fragmented. We as the resort, as the Ministry of Climate and Environment, are carrying out advanced work on the full, comprehensive implementation of both the Market Directive and the RED II Directive. And not only are we determined, but we also have very advanced projects in this area. Partly this is a draft contained in Seym No. 1129, which, I believe deeply, at this meeting of the Sejm, this week, will be voted out tomorrow. Today there will probably be a second reading in the plenary room in the Sejm. I would also like to say that, in the Government's submission, we are primarily extending the obligation for distribution network operators to provide measurement data covering hourly quantities of electricity entered into the distribution network and taken from that network by all electricity generators and consumers, including energy cooperatives. This will enable members of the cooperative to compare the data recorded by energy companies with the data shown on the renewable energy generation facility. In the interests of transparency of energy settlement, we have extended the obligation for the seller to inform the energy cooperative and its members about the amount of energy cleared and obliged it to ensure the functioning of the electronic system through which energy cooperatives and its members are made available measurement data and detailed information on settlement. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 38c. The 14th Renewable Energy Act, which included a delegation to issue an appropriate regulation, introduced a number of details aimed at resolving doubts about the scope and way of making energy cooperatives and their members available with measurement data and billing. Finally, as part of our government work, we have prepared a draft regulation of the Minister of Climate and Environment on registration, balancing and sharing of measurement data and energy cooperatives' accounts. Unfortunately, this, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, is not in the senate project. He's just fragmentary. All changes have been agreed in the framework of the public consultation. They aim to bring about a dynamic development of energy cooperatives. We hope that the government bill amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, which I mentioned earlier, will soon be passed by the Sejm. The legislative path makes it to the High House, the Senate, and soon, for the nearest, I hope, sitting. If Mr Marshal decides to consider this government project at his next meeting, then we will have the opportunity to discuss fully the subject of the Senate proposal. I would like to stress here that, in the case of legislative projects which are the subject of energy cooperatives, it is very important to coordinate work with the work currently under way on the implementation of the directives that I have been talking about, namely the Market Directives and the RED II Directive, which the Ministry of Climate and Environment is working on. The draft law implementing the market directive, which has the number UC74 in the list of legislative work, is currently at the analysis stage, the comments submitted during the public consultation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this consultation ended in June. 1,200 comments were received, more than 1,200 comments, of which about 300 concerned prosumers and energy cooperatives, and therefore what I pointed out earlier is far-reaching, more inclusive of the whole environment interested in discussing this issue than the narrowly adopted Senate project. Our submission will be based on voluntary and open participation to ensure environmental, economic and social benefits for members of energy cooperatives, local energy communities, which will be able to produce electricity, including renewable energy sources, and its distribution, marketing, aggregation or storage. In connection with this market directive, which we are implementing, we are in the process of implementing it in the Polish landscape, in the Polish energy market system, there are aggregates. In this important, but also, as I stress, a fragmented senate project, there is no speech on this subject, and aggregations are professional entities that will optimise, increase the benefits of both prosumers and energy cooperatives that will operate in this market. The citizen's energy community will be able to carry out activities, among others. in the form of cooperatives within the meaning of the Law of 1992, cooperative law. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is also working on a draft law implementing the RED II directive, which provides for the emergence of energy communities active in the field of renewable energy. The Directive requires such a community to have legal capacity and to be able to carry out activities in the fields of production, consumption, storage and sale of renewable energy, including through contracts for the purchase of electricity. In line with the Directive, the aim of such a community, in addition to the financial gains which are intended to benefit the participants of the cooperative, for example energy, because it is natural, is also to bring environmental benefits, social benefits to its shareholders, including members of local communities. The renewable energy community will have the powers provided for by the senate project for energy cooperatives, extending the scope of the energy cooperative's activities in such a way that renewable energy obtained in the renewable energy cooperative's RES installations can also be stored, used and sold to other entities. In addition, the draft law by Jadwiga Emilewicz amending the Renewable Energy Act in the Sejm provides for the introduction of a collective prosumer model which will operate in multi-site buildings. Collective Prosumer is the final customer producing electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources for own use in micro-installations or small installations connected to the distribution network via an internal electrical installation in a multi-room building. The project assumes that each participant, a member of the collective prosumer structure will have a specific share in the installation and an appropriate share of the energy produced by the source will be allocated to a specific prosumer. The distribution system operator will be responsible for calculating the amount of energy per prosumer. Here I would like to point out that the proposals for collective prosumers are addressed precisely to urban areas, due to dense buildings, where it would not be possible or difficult to install individual installations assigned to single prosumers on roofs. The project was positively assessed by the Minister for Climate and Environment subject to the comments indicated in the opinion and subject to the necessary changes. We anticipate that this regulation will lead to the development of renewable energy, especially in urban areas. It is part of the senate draft law that we are discussing today and which, as the justification suggests, is in line with the interest of housing cooperatives and housing communities located in urban areas and intending to install photovoltaic installations in order to reduce energy consumption and costs. In conclusion, I will say this: given the number of legislative projects currently under review, and in order to maintain the coherence of regulations dedicated to collective forms of renewable energy activities, it is necessary that legislative changes in energy cooperatives be carried out within the framework of government projects implementing European Union directives. Therefore, the Ministry of Climate and Environment cannot support the Senate bill amending the Renewable Energy Act. In addition, regardless of this fundamental fundamental remark, I would like to point out the following doubts which arise from the evaluation of the Senate draft law. The project does not address the issue of the simultaneous possibility of obtaining support in the form of a feed-in tariff, feed-in premium and the functioning of the discharge system for energy cooperatives. Nor has the role of the seller of the undertaking as both a seller and a recipient of electricity been regulated in relation to the cooperative in the context of the existing provisions of Article. 38c Act on Renewable Energy Sources. In addition, extending the capacity of energy cooperatives to urban areas goes beyond the assumptions underlying the creation of such an energy community in Poland. The draft submitted by repealing the Article. 38e paragraph. 1 The Renewable Energy Sources Act removed any requirements concerning the form of an energy cooperative and restrictions on the production volume of electricity, heat or biogas, as well as those related to the maximum number of members of the cooperative, the Senator even pointed out here an example of the Bavarian one, which involved tens of thousands of members of the energy cooperative, thus giving the possibility to create entities of unlimited size and volume of production, which could consequently have a negative impact on the stability of the distribution grid. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of renewable energy sources is necessary, deliberate and absolutely necessary for the Polish economy, Polish citizens, but we must also be responsible for the stability of electricity supply, and we must be guided by the technical capabilities of the Polish electricity system. Already today, in view of the number of prosumers that operate in Poland, we have numerous reports and information about exemptions of photovoltaic installations by system automation, by inverters, which simply react to excess energy in a virtual warehouse, which is the electricity network. We want this market sector to continue to grow dynamically not only for a year or for two years, but also for a decade or even more until 2040. And one day, and we must also say this to ourselves, like in other Member States of the European Union, it will be saturated, then it will be replaced with the so-called "market." repowering, trading for newer generation sources, but there are also some system limitations, network restrictions. If today we allow market participants to be free to install and generate electricity in distributed installations, both in prosumer installations and in energy cooperatives, it may harm the stability of energy supply and will de facto be counterproductive, as it will result in these installations being excluded by system automation as well as by distribution network operators, because in these peaks of energy produced, at the peak of energy production, they will simply cause a number of very serious risks and difficulties for the distribution and transmission of electricity. That's why I want to say again that I'm very happy... I'm really saying this without any extra courtesy to the High House. I'm very happy about this discussion. It is important that we can talk and raise public awareness of the importance and importance of renewable energy sources, especially in this distributed energy. But please, please, kindly, to give opportunity and leave it up to the Ministry of Climate and Environment to implement EU directives and to develop distributed energy. This is, once again, a priority for our ministry, as well as for me personally as a representative of the government for renewable energy sources. In conclusion, however, I regret to have a negative opinion on the Senate bill and to say that we cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Czerwiński.]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, the conclusion: we should simply abandon the work on this project By the way, he's not widely accepted in the High House, half, I'd say, a little more than half the senators want this project. It may focus on other equally important objectives if, first, there is a project that is considered in the Sejm and is more advanced, secondly, it is more complete and thirdly it has the support of the government. I have another kind of question for the Minister. Namely, it is certainly possible to count among renewable energy sources, I would say, small water power plants. They still have this feature, that apart from the fact that they give energy relatively stable, of course as long as the water is in the rivers, one that can be easily operated, i.e. One that can be easily turned off and turned back on, they simply help in the fight against drought, as well as floods, with melting, which is like three in one. There is also tourism, because under certain conditions tanks can be used for tourism. Minister, the simple question is: do we have a special programme for small hydropower plants such as: for prosumer energy from photovoltaics? Of course, a simple bread eater, a prosumer of a power plant will not build, but a farmer who has water leaks in his territory could do something like that. E.g. In my neighborhoods, practically every river has been able to indicate mills that have been powered by mills. Of course, there are no more mills, but the remaining buildings after these mills, there are ruins or buildings after the mills. Mills practically on every kilometer... [[Mr. Senator, there's a minute to ask.]] Yeah, time's up. I understand, Mr. Marshal. [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator...]] The question is, do we have a program like this, and if we don't, when do we have one?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u185	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Small hydropower plants benefit from a feed-in tariff system up to 500 kW. This is a special tariff guaranteeing a stable price for electricity produced in such an installation. You could say it's public aid because it's a tariff that's been subject to... We had a duty to notify public aid resulting from the establishment of this tariff in the European Commission. In addition, I would like to say that the government's bill, which is currently in the Seym, hopefully this week, will be adopted by the Sejm at this meeting with an extension of support for small hydropower plants by 2 years, because the system that was previously in force last year... This was different depending on the power plant that operates in this system, but it ended around October last year. Right now we have... This is allowed by the RED I Directive, we can extend the support by 2 years, and that is what we are doing in this law, which is a government proposal, which is currently in the Sejm. And independently we are working on a system regulation that will help in the long term to support small hydropower plants. They are not so important for the national electricity system, they are not energy generation sources, which cause that in the system we have this energy, let's say, as much as in wind energy or photovoltaic installations, but is very important for the stability of energy and the balancing of local energy, just locally, where they function. I personally consider it a great value that such power plants in Poland are. Granted, the conditions regarding topography of the terrain in Poland, well, only mountain areas, Podgórskie... We have far less opportunities than the Scandinavian countries. But I assure the senator and the High House that small hydropower plants are being treated with due seriousness and we will try to provide adequate public support for the development of this distributed energy sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u188	Thank you. I would also like to propose that we no longer discuss this subject, because since there is this government project and there is work to be done, maybe we could suspend... It's also a possibility. Well, if it were the Senate's will. A question for the Minister. You mentioned that work is underway. And I think we're gonna find out about the details. But the media reports that at the moment prosumer energy will not be accounted for as prosumer energy, but as electricity sales and electricity resale. Is that in this new solution? It is said that the product will be sold for twenty pennies and bought for sixty pennies. Is it in this new solution, or is it just the media? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u189	You're welcome, Minister. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, since the Senator of the Republic of Poland asks such a question, I am concerned because... [[Media, repeat, media...]] ...in fact, the media is giving such mass false information, this main current...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u191	Excuse me, Minister, but I have a question for our technical services: what is the reason for this strange buzzing that we hear all the time, and which, first of all, is not the best effect on the seriousness of our deliberations, and secondly, is it very disturbing? Is there anything you could do about it? [[Voice from the room: It's okay.]] It's okay. The buzzing's over. I'm sorry, Minister, but it's also in your interest to be able to answer your questions in an unfettered manner. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as prosumer settlements are concerned, indeed, we have observed a negative phenomenon in the form of a falsified media message about a government draft law amending the Energy Law and the Renewable Energy Sources Act. We have prepared a very large, comprehensive bill amending the system or maybe supplementing the prosumer billing system with a new model, so-called. The sales model you're asking the senator about. And it must be said that all prosumers who are currently prosumers are in the system, and those who become prosumers until the entry into force of the new law or amended law, have guaranteed acquired rights. And for 15 years As it is enshrined in the provision of the Law, they will benefit from tariffs, so-called. drains, 1 to 0,8 and 1 to 0,7 depending on the size of the installation they have. That's why, well, the claim of some threat to prosumers is completely false. In addition, a new billing model that still... Because we're in the middle of a discussion about this, and we don't know what shape it's going to take. I'll tell you in a moment what we think is optimal. It does not make persons who enter the electricity system as prosumers, i.e. producers and consumers for their own needs of electricity, after the entry into force of the amended law, cease to have the quality of the prosumer. That's not true, I'm definitely denying it. They will still be prosumers, only they will benefit from a different billing model. One of the proposals tabled in the parliamentary draft law by Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz is currently in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in the Sejm. Net Metering, settlement one to one per year on the amount of electricity generated, introduced and subsequently collected for the purpose of a prosumer from the network as a virtual warehouse. This current system, as well as the net metering system in one to one settlements, has its fundamental drawbacks, namely that we settle it all year round and virtually store the generated electricity in the electricity grid, which has its limitations, has its technical limitations. Both of these billing models are usable, to be applied, but in our view they must change. Finally, the prosumers themselves, who will use one or the other billing model, may be dissatisfied because their installations will not work - the system automation will simply disable these installations. I want to say at the same time... I heard speeches, such voices in the form of opinions or postulates, that we should focus on the conversion of the electricity system, on larger investments in transmission networks and distribution networks. High Izbo, last year Polish Power Grids prepared a plan to rebuild the electricity system, which is... I don't exactly remember the value, but these are multi-billion-dollar outlays. This is not a plan only of Polish Power Networks, but it is a national plan for the reconstruction and development of the network approved by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Also in the National Reconstruction Plan, we have established significant funds, multi-billion-dollar quotas for the development of transmission networks and distribution networks. Nevertheless, physics cannot be deceived and when... [[I have, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal...]] ...when prosumers are... [[The question was very specific, and the Minister tells everything he knows.]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u193	Mr. Senator... Excuse me, Minister. I try not to interfere with the substantive content of the statements of those who perform important functions, such as the functions of senator or minister, because I believe that such persons, until they break the law, are responsible for their statements. Even for the most unreasonable or inadequate things that express political responsibility to the people who choose them. It is not a marshal's role to be a policeman to anyone, and therefore I will consistently defend everyone's right to give various opinions until, I stress, there is no violation of law or customs. And it certainly doesn't happen here. I share the senator's opinion that the Minister answers completely not on the subject, but I do not feel competent to order government ministers to answer on the subject. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Sorry about the intervention.]] Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u194	Mr. Marshal, with the utmost respect for the marshal and the High House, the upper chamber of the Polish Parliament... Forgive me, Mr. Marshal, but perhaps the marshal should explore the secrets of electricity, transmission system, distribution of energy, as well as models of settlement of prosumers, which are in Poland, in Europe and in the world, in order to be able to express authoritarianly that the Minister of the Polish Government speaks not about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u195	I'm able to... If you, Minister, find the courage to enter polemics with me I'm happy for you. I'll answer your question. I'm not talking about electrodynamics, I'm talking about the senator asking a specific question, and that's what I'm able to understand, regardless of... I also understand that your doubts about the intellectual qualifications of your interlocutors come entirely from the company you're in. But I assure you, I understand what's going on in this room, and I take your attention as a naughty remark, because I was defending your right to say what you want. You started polemics with me now, and I don't think that's the point. And what I'm saying is, I don't think you answer the question. You are a minister of the Polish government, and I would like you to complete the answer to the question until you insult anyone here. If you continue to believe that answering questions about the energy market is a good opportunity to humiliate the vice-marshal of the Polish Senate, then perhaps I will react. But now I encourage you to answer the senator's question. Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say that always, and how your marshal was a Member of the Sejm, and how you are a Senator and Vice-Marshal of the Polish Senate, I had great respect for you, despite the fact that... [[But we're not talking about me right now, Minister, please, we're not talking about me.]] ...we're from different political backgrounds. [[I want to give you the opportunity to answer the senator's question. That's all.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm trying, but what I'm trying to say is that my intention was not to offend your Marshal. [[Thank you. I accept that.]] All I'm saying is that the subject we're talking about is really complicated and requires a longer explanation. Perhaps in such a brief message that I am trying to present, it will not be understood by most of the audience. And in conclusion and in order to answer, I would like to say that, in our opinion, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the best billing model will be the so-called. net-billing is that the settlement for the generated energy input into the network and then downloaded from the network will take place on an hourly basis, i.e. in the dynamic tariff, and will have the best economic results for the prosumer, but also provide security for the electricity system. In addition, I would like to inform you that the market directive, which, as a Member State, we have a duty to implement, requires a separate settlement of the energy introduced into the grid and the energy collected from the network, which means that the model of waste 1 to 0,8 or 1 to 0,7 must change. Dear Senator, prosumers will develop over the long term. We want to ensure that on every Polish roof, roof of every Polish house, if only the owner of this house has such ambition and such plans, there can be a photovoltaic installation, which will serve to reduce the cost of electricity consumed by the inhabitants of this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u197	Thank you, Minister. No further questions... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] You're welcome, Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u198	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, in the letter we received from the State, from the Ministry on 26 June as a voice in the discussion on our draft law on amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, you assured us that you have just started a consultation which is related to the implementation of the draft law implementing the EU directive. It was June 26th. I'm asking you to tell us what the deadline is. the implementation of the RED II Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u200	To answer the question about the deadline for the implementation of the RED II Directive, I will say that it is 30 June 2021. [[So he's gone.]] Yes, it has expired, but there are many Member States of the European Union that have not yet done so. It is a very broad implementation affecting not only the area that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is dealing with, but also those that other departments are dealing with, or at least several departments in our ministry. I assure the High House and the Senator that we are making the greatest effort, the greatest effort, and we are making the greatest effort to fully implement the RED II directive as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u201	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Zdzisław Pupa's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u202	I'm gonna ask a question that no one in this room has ever asked. Today we are at such a stage that we produce photovoltaic energy, and good, because it is indeed pure energy from the sun. But the time will come that in 10 or 15 years you will have to dispose of the photovoltaic batteries. I would like to ask what it looks like to prepare the market for the development of these secondary raw materials. I mean used photovoltaic batteries. I'm asking because I suspect there might be a problem here, and it's huge. At the moment, no company is prepared to use photovoltaic batteries. Senator Chróścikowski raised a very important problem for prosumers. The Minister may have unnecessarily dwindled or, you might say, tried to smooth this speech, the attention of the senator, because it is indeed a matter of concern to sign new prosumer agreements, which have been concluded under new conditions that have been proposed. It seems that the information that flows from the media and from the Ministry clearly states that there may indeed be less cost-effective investments in setting up photovoltaic cells on rooftops. The Minister explains that it will be profitable, but I think it would be good to get a message like this into society. It is worth showing on the numbers that it will still be profitable for prosumer. If the Minister could answer these two questions in some way in a few sentences, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u203	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Is there anything you'd like to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u204	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the state cannot deal with all areas of social and economic life, although it should diagnose problems and support the development of market sectors. Here I would like to calm down and say that in Poland we have a 15-year support system. The oldest photovoltaic installations that have been installed... There are still a few years before they can function peacefully. I also have information from large economic operators, private economic operators, that there are projects in preparation consisting in the construction of a factory, it is difficult to call it a factory, it is about the construction of a plant related to the recovery of raw materials from already exploited photovoltaic panels. It is possible to re-use 97% components of photovoltaic panels. This activity will certainly occur not only in Poland, but also in other Member States of the European Union, because it will simply pay off. This is also a need for market needs. I'd be more qualified for that. I'm interested in this issue. In the area of circular economy, it is the responsibility of the manufacturer for the manufactured product. I'm not afraid here... I know that the media sometimes provide such information that we are threatened with flooding used photovoltaic panels or other equipment associated with the use of renewable energy sources. Technological progress and economic development, the development of this industry will ensure recycling and reuse of at least parts of used photovoltaic panels. To answer the second question, the prosumer should use the energy it produces for its own use for its own household. This was the idea of creating a prosumer as a legal institution included in the law. The Prosumer was not supposed to be a micro-entrepreneur who would make money selling electricity. This is a distributed energy model, which is to relieve the large national electricity system and increase local energy security. Therefore, the new clearing systems, which are still in the process of proceding under the parliamentary bill, which I was talking about, or the government draft law, which is after extensive public consultation. Now we are at a stage of modification, taking into account these comments, some reflection on what shape we will ultimately propose. We may have to hold a public consultation again because we take prosumers very seriously and this issue, because it is related to savings in electricity bills, with savings for our domestic budgets. In the case of the UC74 project, which is at the stage of the public consultation, experts calculated in the framework of the impact assessment that savings in the case of an average size of a 5,6 kWp prosumer plant are about PLN 1 thousand 500 per year for the household. We have to take it into account. This is what I talked about at the beginning of my long speech when I referred to the Senate project That the model of drains 1 to 0,8 or 1 to 0,7 is unique. There is no such support system anywhere in the European Union. He was good two or three years ago. Today, when the number of prosumers approaches 1 million, we evaluate it as a model of excess support on the Polish market and we need to make changes. Of course, I will remind you once again that those who are prosumers and they will remain until the new law enters into force will be guaranteed the current billing model for 15 years, so they will be safe. They will be on the same basis as they are now accounting for 15 years from the introduction of the first kilowato hour they produce into the electricity grid. In general, this model of wasteland is untenable in the long run. Therefore, in the sense of responsibility for the stability of the system, we must make this change, but it will continue to be cost-effective for prosumers. Perhaps not as it is right now, but it will be a cost-effective model, because it just has to be, it has to be savings for the household budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u205	Thank you, Minister. Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u206	Minister, the media reports that you want to finance the so-called. Warehouses. Is that true? 'Cause, you know, like... in Germany more than 80% shall be financed by the energy management system. So the question is, is it really true that you want to finance it at 50%? ? Is that an idea? It would allow them to manage the energy themselves. I know that in Germany, as my colleagues have said here, energy management is a part of the energy system, not a prosumer, because of such a large surcharge. Is such a reality possible in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u207	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u208	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, since July 1st, we have launched the third edition of my current program. In 2022, we want to correlate the entry into force of the revised Renewable Energy Sources Act with the new edition of the program It will also include funding for the purchase of domestic energy stores, electrical energy management systems, electric car chargers, as well as heat and cold storage. These will be systems that will increase the consumption of electricity at the place where it is produced. The aim is to avoid or minimise the storage of electricity in the electricity grid, which has limited capacity. That is why my current has been developed, 4.0, which is already basically designed, but of course we must wait for the new regulations to enter into force until they function. For the future prosumer to have an economic incentive to buy an energy warehouse, we want to launch a program that will also finance the purchase of these domestic warehouses. I would like to say that, regardless of this, we are also working on support for distribution network operators in the area of assembly, construction of power stores at the end of the network. But this will be an element of increased flexibility, stability of the electricity system other than domestic warehouses, much larger and with a slightly different purpose, but also increasing security of energy transmission and distribution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Zdzisław Pupa is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u210	The Minister has partially explained what I want to ask the Minister. Namely, here the need is born, Minister, to build renewable energy sources of these prosumers, who are not to make money from producing energy. This is a very good idea, but in order to achieve this, it would be necessary, I think, to carry out the so-called funding. hybrid solutions, i.e. obtaining wind energy, solar energy in combination with the use of energy storage or high-quality batteries, these nickel-litres. This would lead to a situation where the prosumer would actually become reasonably self-sufficient. And that would cause that there would be no such dysfunction in the generation of energy, instability of the energy system, because it would give the possibility of shutting down the production of energy within a given farm, with prosumer. I think if such solutions were preferred, and the Minister mentioned it... Well, it would be one of the best solutions to ensure that this energy system is not over-exploited and that it can be stabilized somehow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u212	Yes, here I want to inform you that we are working on a hybrid installation of renewable energy sources that combines at least 2 of them, but at least 2 of the sources of electricity generation. It could be, for example. wind energy, solar energy or energy from a biogas plant, using a storage unit, using an inverter by means of a single injection of such a coupled installation into the electricity system. According to experts' calculations, the use or combination of such installations as a hybrid power plant, renewable energy sources, gives the possibility to work this source for 60% of the time per year, i.e. at a level similar to or comparable to conventional blocks, large conventional energy carbon blocks. If it were technologically successful, which is possible, it would make it possible to apply in small installations, installations for individual households, then we would indeed have a breakthrough in energy, not only renewable, but globally in energy. This will cause where there will be such technical possibilities, because there must be some space to use such an installation, there households or settlements will be completely energy independent. This is the future, but these projects are already very advanced, technically and legally, because we work in the Ministry. This may soon be the subject of a government presentation, and we will also be able to proceed on this subject here in the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u213	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm sure... I don't see any senators reporting anymore. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm opening a debate. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! After listening to the questions, I will refer to some of them. Let me start with your last question, Senator Pupa's questions. In fact, the idea of housing cooperatives fills all the expectations that Senator Pupa was asking about, because housing cooperatives... Sorry, energy cooperatives should have exactly the same role. In the European countries where they operate, this role is largely fulfilled. After listening to the Minister's statement, I have the impression that if we created a map of words on the basis of this statement, it would be mostly words: we want, we want, we work. There is nothing to indicate that: we have done, we are ready, we are realized. There's just something that might be in the future. After six years of government, it's so good for the ruling team on average. The idea of energy cooperatives in Europe has been in operation for many years. The oldest energy cooperatives were established in 1991, in general in the 1990s of the previous century, and probably before. They actually group up 60,000 members and meet those expectations that are being faced today by communities in the most developed countries. Of course, Minister, I am aware that the Senate is not a government and that we will not implement the directive to the extent that the directive should be implemented. This is your role, and you shouldn't be late. You should have tabled a draft law implementing the directive long ago, and since you did not do so, do not use the word "we want" and do not criticize the Senate for wanting in some part to meet the expectations of a significant part of Poles. I think beyond your opinion, all the opinions that have come to the committee and the Senate on this matter are positive, those from non-governmental organisations, from local authorities, really only positive. So even out of respect for them, you don't have to respect the Senate, but out of respect for them, you should put a lot more energy into supporting this bill. Minister, 4,000 prosumers in Poland. Indeed, in recent years or even in recent months, this number in Poland has increased avalanchely, but the main reason is the high price of electricity. Increasing electricity prices make Poles want to use cheaper energy sources. The sad thing is that these proposals that you are working on, and work as long as possible on this as possible, and don't make it enough for you to submit this project, is that the average household, which consumes 4.5 MW of electricity per year, has a photovoltaic installation of 5.5 kW, such a medium-sized household in Poland, after the changes that you have in the study today, I don't know what at the end you will release, will be a loss of about 1 thousand PLN per year. This is your supersupport for prosumers. That's what experts do. I only present these amounts on the basis of expert calculations. Poland does not have the best support system for photovoltaics or wider RES, but I repeat, the highest electricity prices in the European Union make this area in Poland quite dynamically developing. I don't want to be particularly angry either, because I don't have that purpose, I believe in your good intentions, Minister, but the good intentions of hell are paved. So let me just say that in Poland renewable energy, energy from RES accounts for about 15% in the primary account, and the much richer Germany, and thus the economy that consumes much more electricity, have 56% of it. , there already about 56% energy comes from renewable sources. Then, when you in Poland, in 2016 and later, blocked the development of RES, they supported it very strongly and moved forward very much, and we are still in the stage of the 19th century, coal and the belief that coal will save us however much. No, coal is already lost. Minister, if you read the Polish Ład with which your government drives in Poland, you would support this solution, which the Senate has prepared, because in the Polish Łada you have written down actions concerning support for energy cooperatives. Minister, we are helping not only the government, but even the PiS, helping you fulfil your obligations in this dimension, fulfilling them with true content. Well, unless you don't want this help, and Polish Load is just a piece of paper, which is about telling a story, but not really doing it. Because if these declarations are true, then you should support those proposals that are made here. It was weird, too, when you said that you were working, you wanted to, and so on. I already told you that. Well, let the Senate wait 'cause you're gonna do something. Well, the government should take care of it. It is so difficult that the government should be preparing these solutions. In turn, when a group of Members associated with the PiS submit a bill, you say that this project is okay. Minister, you have to make up your mind. Either it's so hard that none of the parliamentarians can handle it with their own brains and it has to be done by the government, or it's not that hard. You can't say that what is government and PiS is good, and what isn't PiS is wrong. It's illogical. I'll leave the minister alone because I only have ten minutes. I won't give you any more time. I would like to refer to the very initiative relating to energy cooperatives. Like I said, it's not unusual, it's not particularly new. There is no doubt that energy cooperatives will reduce energy prices, not only for those who will be members of such a cooperative. They're a chance for cheaper electricity at all. Cooperatives are the development of renewable energy sources, it is the reduction of pollution and dust emitted into the atmosphere, it is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, it is finally a departure from such ungrateful indicators as the fact that in the European Union 85% households using coal for heating are households located in Poland. In addition, energy cooperatives stimulate the local economy. I would also add that energy cooperatives contribute to energy efficiency and are salvageable for the stability of transmission networks. Energy cooperatives will benefit the local community, it's obvious that Senator Pup was asking about. Energy cooperatives have a positive impact on the social reception of renewable energy projects. They are de facto within the reach of every citizen. You don't need some extraordinarily large amount of money, and you don't need any extra support. Energy cooperatives could indeed be created here, which would satisfy the needs of each Pole in the energy production part. As for energy cooperatives, we do not say from which source this energy is to be produced. She may be made of photovoltaics, biogas, biomass, wind, but also small water power plants. Small hydropower plants after meeting the requirements of the Water Framework Directive, very strict requirements, I will immediately say They can also be part of energy cooperatives. All of this can complement each other. All it takes is to create real conditions so that energy cooperatives in Poland can finally start developing. And it's not for show, for picu. Well, the 3 communes met, the minister came, painted the grass green and cut the ribbon. The point is, it's gonna work. Not for show, but really, not for TVP, just for Poles. And for that to happen, we need to change the rules, change the law. We propose this kind of solution. This solution, which is located in the Sejm, is not related to energy cooperatives, so they do not interfere to any extent with each other. The project has been known to the Minister for several months. Well, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, as the initiator of this legal solution, sent a request for the Minister's opinion a few months ago. I was convinced that you, as responsible for the development of RES in Poland, would support this solution very strongly, and with sadness I heard the last sentence that sounded, i.e. That you're against it, because even a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture has a different opinion on this matter than you do. I ask the High House to meet the expectations of Poles about lower energy prices, about creating an opportunity for the development of civic energy, also asking that we really give Poles a chance to breathe cleaner air, so that Poland emits less pollution into the atmosphere, so that there is less greenhouse gas emissions, and finally that we chase those countries that have already jumped so far in the production of renewable energy, such as Germany, which I mentioned, and which have fifty percent of energy from RES, and that we adopt this bill. He will go to the Sejm and if the government and the majority of the Sejm will have reflection and read the document with which the government drives around Poland, i.e. the Polish Ład, then they will support this project and if not, we will see what real intentions are about this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u216	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm gonna be speaking from the spot, because very briefly... In fact, I am surprised at what I heard from the Minister today, because the information I referred to once said that, due to the work started, the Ministry encourages us to coordinate. The word "coordination" has a very clear meaning. However, since the Minister is coming to a meeting with the Senate today and is critical of the concepts of our project, I do not see any coordination here, I do not even see any expression of satisfaction that we, as the Senate, have taken action in line with the expectations of a very large part of society. It seems to me that this is a very bad practice that you do not cooperate with those who bring a good legislative initiative, and quickly prepares the bill just to be the first. This is childish practice. We are very disappointed that, just before our meeting today, the Minister managed to do this act of advance of the Senate. I do not know if it was expected from the Prime Minister and other members of the government that it was not the Senate, and the government was talking about the implementation of the RED II directive. But the Minister also said great news, i.e. I thought the state couldn't take care of everything. I therefore express here the expectation that the areas that you will not be dealing with will be as much as possible, because in this way we will have the opportunity to achieve a higher level of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Halina Bieda, Janusz Pęcherz, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Mieczysław Golba, Janusz Gromek, Jolanta Hibner and Alexander Swed made speeches for the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2020. The text of the report is contained in print No 429. I ask Senator Aleksander Pociej to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2020. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, at its 100 third meeting on 16 June 2021, adopted an annual report on the petitions examined by the Committee in 2020. Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 in the section "Freedom and political rights" in the article. 63 provides for the possibility for citizens to submit petitions, applications and complaints. The Act of 11 July 2014 on petitions implemented this constitutional provision. It should also be stressed that although the petition law entered into force on 6 September 2015, the Senate Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, acting under the provisions of Section Xa of the Senate Rules of Procedure, has been considering petitions since 2009. The Senate Marshal shall address the petitions sent to the Senate and its organs to the chairman of the committee. The Commission, after considering the petition and establishing the link between the subject-matter of the petition and the House's powers, may exercise one of the three powers: apply to the Senate Marshal for a legislative initiative, authorise one of the members of the committee to submit a legislative proposal, give the Senate Marshal an opinion on the purpose of the Senate's exercise of the powers set out in the Constitution, the Act or the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. If the committee, after considering the petition, considers that the subject matter of the petition does not fall within the competence of the Senate, it may delegate it to the competent public authority, informing the Senate marshal accordingly. Following the examination of the petition, the committee also has the right not to take further action, as also reported by the Senate Marshal and indicates the reasons. In 2020, the Senate Marshal sent 134 petitions to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, including 116 individual, 17 collective and 1 multiple. In addition, the committee continued its work on 30 petitions from the 9th Senate term and 38 petitions from 2019 which had already entered the Senate in the 10th Senate term. In total, 203 petitions were included in the committee's work in 2020. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in 2020 looked at petitions at 21 meetings, each on average, on average about 10 petitions. In 2020, the committee prepared 9 draft laws on the basis of petitions and decided to continue work on 23 petitions. 26 petitions were still pending in 2021 and 2 petitions were left unattended at the request of their authors. In deciding to complete the work on 24 petitions, the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions sent information to several actors on the requests included in the petitions in order to consider the possibility for these authorities to take into account in future work on amending the laws of the requests set out in those petitions. Information on applications from 21 petitions, to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was sent to the Government Legislature Centre, and to the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, applications from 1 petition. In the case of 4 petitions submitted to the Senate in 2020, there were the conditions set out in Article. 6 of the Act of 11 July 2014 on petitions to be submitted to the competent body for consideration. And so 2 petitions were submitted to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, after 1 petition was submitted to the Ministry of Health and the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. The petitioners were informed of their petition being sent to the relevant parties. In the petitions considered in 2020, the petitioners called for changes primarily to civil law, criminal law, tax law, public finances and family law. Quite numerous were also petitions concerning the constitution, administrative law, administrative procedure, family pension rules, the functioning of municipal and voivodship authorities. When analysing the number of petitions addressed to the Senate in 2020, it is important to highlight their increased impact in relation to previous years. A total of 134 petitions were received, i.e. an increase of 43 petitions for 2019. Of the 214 letters addressed to the Department of Petitions and correspondence of the Office of Analysis, Documentation and correspondence of the Senate Office, 44 could not be issued in a constitutional manner, mainly because they did not contain legislative proposals. In Senate printing No 429, petitions and committee actions for each of them were presented in detail by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. It is worth noting that the number of petitions addressed to the Senate is increasing every year and the scope of the legal issues covered by the petitions is broadening. In addition, it should be noted that among petitioners, the most numerous group of petitioners are individuals petitioning individuals, which is a huge change in relation to the beginnings of our activity when they were generally collective petitions. At the same time, individual petitions more and more often include several to a dozen requests for different legal acts. Therefore, it can be said that, in fact, the petitions that we are considering are much more than that, because if one petition contains a few completely incompatible, in no way, issues or conclusions, then each petition really needs to be dealt with separately. High Izbo, our committee in the 9th term of office at its three hundred and eighteenth sitting on 9 July 2019 summarized the functioning of the petition law passed by Parliament: which entered into force in 2015. Conclusions following discussions with the Senators and after the discussion carried out in the committee's current composition They're unambiguous. And five years, actually at the moment 6, the functioning of the petition law is sufficient time to determine the need to make the following amendments in the law. Firstly, the request to introduce at least a petition for the Sejm, the Senate and government administrations of a single register or a list of all petitions submitted, which would make it easier for citizens, but also for public authorities to understand the issues of petitions submitted. Secondly, the petition for petitioning only one body. At present 1 petition is submitted to several instances The Sejm, the Senate, ministries or local government units, and each of these institutions must consider this petition, examine it and very often come to a completely different decision, or suspend it, because each of these authorities is waiting for the decision of another. Thirdly, the request to allow oral petitions to be submitted to the minutes and to reduce the number of petitions submitted by the same person. Besides, these are just some of the postulates that sounded in the discussion. These proposals remain valid and the committee therefore held a meeting to consider the initiative to amend the petition law. Now, in the 10th term, our committee - What do you have to admit? The draft law amending the petition law, contained in Senate Print No 310, was introduced above the party divisions. The bill provides for a revision of the petition law by introducing a regulation aimed at limiting the possibility for the same person to petition the same problem to several actors at the same time. As a result, it modifies the grounds for leaving the petition unattended. The second direction of the measures under consideration is to set up a new Senate committee, a committee dealing only with petitions, whose sole task would be to deal with petitions. This proposal was included in the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure contained in Senate Print No 26. Finally, it should also be noted that there have been criticisms of such solutions as were proposed in the draft amendment to the law. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. That's all I had to report to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you senators like to ask the committee rapporteur a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would also like to inform you that no one has made their speech in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. I thank Senator Aleksander Pociej for presenting a report to the Senate. I state that the Senate has read the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions on petitions that have been examined in 2020. I would like to go back to the previous item on the agenda for a moment, because I have not read the very important formula that the third reading, which will only cover the vote, will be carried out together with other votes. The case concerns a draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act. We'll proceed with the review of the point... No. Dismissed until 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 32 to 18 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u220	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Polish National Crimes Commission. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish President of the Institute of National Remembrance, hereby appoints the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. The Sejm called on this position of Mr Karol Nawrocki, and the resolution of the Sejm on this matter is included in Senate print No. 419. I would like to welcome to the Senate meeting the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr. Karol Nawrocki, appointed by the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of your senators like to ask Mr. Charles Nawrocki or ask him to explain? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to ask the candidate... The scope of work of the Institute of National Remembrance is extremely wide, including. research, search and identification of victims, including victims of totalitarian, fascist, communist regimes, victims of genocide, including genocide in Volhynia, commemoration of fights and martyrdom, but also of course popularization and education activities, archival activities, prosecution of crimes or international cooperation. This is a very wide range of tasks. Among these tasks there is also a mirroring activity. I would like to ask the candidate about his vision of the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, and in particular about the need for change, about what changes he would see in the functioning of the Institute in the future. I would add one very specific, short question to that. On the basis of today's existing rules on the need to carry out the mirroring of the Institute of National Remembrance, based on the Act on disclosure of State Security Authorities documents, for example, the mirroring is carried out. to all candidates for councillors. In the information provided by the IPN, we can see that during the last local elections this check was carried out against 191 000 705 candidates. I would like to ask your doctor, Mr Nawrocki: do you see the need to change the rules in this regard, for example. changes in the scope of not being so dominant in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. by removing the need to check candidates for councillors, restricting this to checking only persons who will be selected for these functions? Then, out of 200,000 people, there would be about 40,000 people left to check out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u222	Very much so, Mr. Senator, thank you. I remind you senators, just for the record, that these questions are no longer than 1 minute. I would ask you very much to approach the podium, because I think it will be easier and more... [[Voice from the room: Decent.]] ...well, that's if you answer from the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u223	Do you want me to stay in the mask, Mrs. Marshal? Can I take it off? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian Staneck: You may.]] Thank you. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: You will be answering for a long time.]] Yeah, I'm sure. Thank you very much, Senator, for your questions. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators, I understand that there is also a request in this question to share my vision, with an emphasis on the illustrative issues that have particularly been of interest to your senator. So I think that he should start with such an ideal assumption and present my candidacy as a potential president of the Institute of National Remembrance, with reference to the institution itself, whose foundations, as we know, were to cultivate historical truth in a national and geopolitical context, in these 2 contexts, but also the need to bring about transformational justice after 1989. This is a standard of state systems coming out of totalitarian systems. And that was also one of the tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance. Effective education and science are of course very important. In my recognition, the Institute of National Remembrance is actually the institutional embodiment of Poland's independence and sovereignty in the context of conducting its own historical narrative, also the sovereign historical narrative, and conducting unhindered research. Standing in front of the Institute of National Remembrance today, the main responsibilities or main responsibilities in 20 years after the establishment of this institution, I would like this to sound also on my candidacy. But also the duty, seems to us, of the sovereign Poles in the 21st century is to maintain the chain of national consciousness. I mean. The Institute of National Remembrance in organisational terms should be subjected to such a broader organizational reflection, because here is a generation born in the 1990s, a generation that was not activists of the anti-communist opposition, a generation that is not affected by the illustrative regulations mentioned by the senator. And this task requires not only diagnosing the needs of the generation, but also communication opportunities, communication opportunities, scientific, educational, exhumation, identification of the institution, which is the Institute of National Remembrance, just with the youngest generation. I would also like to make a fundamental point before the High House, in response to this question about the mission. There are representatives of different political backgrounds in this Chamber. I would like to say, Dear Lords, that in my catalogue of national memory are all those who served free, independent and sovereign Poland in the 20th century. Besides, this open catalogue is designated by the fathers of our independence, the fathers of our independence, among which on the one hand we see Józef Piłsudski, on the other hand Roman Dmowski, among whom are Ignacy Daszyński and Józef Haller, Ignacy Paderewski, but also the undisputed leader of the folk movement, Vincenty Witos. And this ideal stretch around the idea of serving the Republic, despite some political tendencies, was beautifully outlined by one of the most important heroes of the 20th century, the rott master Witold Pilecki, who had experience working with politically extremes in the German concentration camp Auschwitz, Stanisław Dubois and Jan Mosdorf, i.e. with a socialist and a nationalist. Besides, both of these political activists combined death in the German concentration camp Auschwitz. And this is one quote that I have prepared for you, the only one, Mrs. Marshal, which I would like to quote in the context of the open catalogue of national heroes. Rotmaster Witold Pilecki wrote in his memoirs: "So it was necessary for Poles to show a mountain of Polish corpses every day to make up their minds and decide that over the differences and hostile positions they took with each other on earth, there is a greater right The agreement and one front against the common enemy, which we have always had many. I find that national agreement, cooperation in the name of truth about Polish experience in the 20th century, about the experience of two terrifying totalitarian systems: German Nazism and Soviet communism... I believe that this agreement also requires Polish history in many contexts today. The primary task of the new president of the Institute of National Remembrance will therefore be to increase the dynamics of all the sectors mentioned by the senator, i.e. to maintain even the dynamics of publishing houses. It is clear that the Publishing House of the Institute of National Remembrance is one of the best publications in Poland, more than 300 published books last year. or to improve the system of action, especially in the international environment. It seems to me, and even I am convinced, that the Institute of National Remembrance should be more active in what we call historical diplomacy and should support state agendas in the field of historical diplomacy. This is what I also tried to do as director of the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk. Maybe this isn't the time for me to talk about it right now, but if you want to talk about it, it's about this international context, a lot of successful actions in 160 places around the world, and I'm happy to talk about it. I think in the context of this changing reality It is necessary to say again that I am convinced of this, Mr. Senator, Dear State, the appointment of an office of modern technologies, and this will be the first decision I will make if I become president of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is precisely the office that will be able to make regular inquiries of scientific, educational achievements within the Institute of National Remembrance and translate the great achievements of the institute into the language of modern technologies, which would encourage the young generation to take an interest in history. In answer to the senator's question about the illustration, about this underlined illustration, I will say that this law is actually constructed in such a way that the illustrious statements make up all candidates for public functions, for self-government functions. There's a lot of backlogs that prosecutors and historians are working on. With nearly 0.5 million, out of about 500,000 sample statements, it is verified, as the senator mentioned, about 190 000 statements and we see that there is a pool of about 300,000 sample statements. Each of them is subject to a query. It is not always legal or prosecutorial, but there is always a query, even in the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. I believe that this provision should be amended in such a way as to make it compulsory for the illustrious and in-depth query, this past query of 0.5 million... to be subject only to those who, in the election, got to the council of the municipalities, to the city councils or to other public offices. This certainly from the perspective of the Institute of National Remembrance would improve the efficiency of the Mirror Office's work. In this context, archival or missionary it would also be worth to say that the Archive is actually the heart of the Institute of National Remembrance, it was around the Archive that the entire educational message was built, a scientific message, around the collections that were collected, and thus documents testifying about both totalitarian systems, that was built. And my key task will be to close the process of collecting documents after the state security authorities. It seems to me that it is necessary, even under the law, to continue the process of digitising archival materials, but also, Dear Sirs And this is something that maybe some of you are not aware of when you complete the process of converting to digital magnetic tapes with operational databases of the Security Service. Well, there are many tapes at the Institute of National Remembrance today that should be developed, and they can provide many interesting, interesting documents concerning the functioning of the security bodies of the communist state in the 1980s. My general objective, Mr Senator, Dear Member States, is also to conduct inclusive education policy and, in line with this strategy, the Archives of the Institute of National Remembrance should also be more accessible. Education should be available. I think that's the kind of question that's gonna come up here. I am convinced that not only standard educational projects should be implemented by the Institute of National Remembrance. We live in times where education should stream to young people and all generations of Poles, also outside of standard projects. In addition to the statutory obligation to close the process of collecting and making the archive available widely, attention should be paid to the crucial moment in taking over the care of the Polish state. The Institute of National Remembrance under my command would certainly commit to this. The archives of Polish Foundations and Associations around the world. This is one of the competences, as we know, of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, to cooperate with Polonia all over the world. I greet all Polish communities in New Zealand, Australia, the United States and Germany with whom I had the opportunity to cooperate as director of the World War II Museum in Gdansk. There, Dear Lords, are true traces of Polish heroism, heroism of Polish soldier, readiness for the greatest sacrifices. This is how World War II turned out, that our compatriots are now all over the world and have really very interesting exhibits, documents, which unfortunately, due to the lack of financial opportunities for foundations and associations, are often not subjected to conservation procedures. In terms of conducting research on the history of the 20th century, as well as their dissemination as a result of the publishing process of the Institute of National Remembrance, as I said, is in my appreciation one of the most important institutions of the Polish state. We are talking about thousands of published books on the latest history of Poland. The Institute of National Remembrance is also the only institution in the country, Dear State, which has the possibility to conduct procedural research and regional research, because the structure of the Institute of National Remembrance is that its branches are distributed across all voivodships, as well as smaller centres where delegations function. The strategic objective of my candidacy is to try to systematize all cause and regional research towards the development of monographs. This is the case. Let me give you just a few examples. The monograph of the Communist Party of Poland, i.e. the Soviet agent before 1939. There are many publications by the Institute of National Remembrance concerning specific regional structures, specific aspects of the operation of the Communist Party of Poland. We are all waiting for an accessible scientific monograph in this area. The same is true of the solidarity. I myself had the opportunity even during Dr. Łukasz Kaminski's time to participate in the Institute of National Remembrance in the project of drawing up regional history In this respect, I'm going to put a dot. The monograph we're waiting for is even more. I am also convinced that what could be added to the achievements of the excellent IPN Publishing House is an attempt to translate into Polish There's no such thing as that. The international classics on the functioning of totalitarian systems. One such example may be the publications of John Earl Haynes, who wrote about the Venon project, who wrote about the infiltration of the United States by the Communist agendas of the Soviet Union. I think that would give a broader context to the work and reflections on communist times in Central and Eastern Europe, because of course not only in Poland. Certainly a breakthrough in the awareness of many Poles was the establishment, by the Polish Parliament, of the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. The whole process of searching, restoring dignity to soldiers of the anti-communist underground is one of the brands of the Institute of National Remembrance. In this process, the search office can of course count on my full support. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I have answered to some extent the senator's question about the vision. I will be happy to extend my comments on certain sectors if they are of interest to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u224	I'm sorry, I just want to ask you about the declaration in the context of the revision of the law on the scope of the mirroring obligation. In the example of the local elections, I would say that it is only about those who are successful in the elections, not all who are taking part.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u225	Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I make a declaration that I see the need to reform this record, although this is beyond the direct competence of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Well, it's the Jury Act, and I'm in favour of it. Regardless of the senator's question, this is in my opinion on the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance. Well, it kind of reduces the efficiency of acting and mirrors, and historians who assist the illustrators.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u226	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Marek Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, Mr President, for presenting this concept, this vision of the IPN. However, I would like to ask if you could present your achievements as director of the World War II Museum.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u228	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. Dear Sirs, in the context of the functioning of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk, I am proud that 4 years ago, in a difficult socio-political situation around the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk, we managed to create a real team that was ready to achieve the important goals of the Polish state, which was ready to complete the administrative and formal process around Westerplatte and prepare for the investment of the sacred Polish land, that is Westerplatte, which is the symbol of the outbreak of the Second World War. Today, after 4 years of functioning under my direction of the World War II Museum in Gdansk combined with the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War, we are in a situation where we no longer wonder whether something should be built on Westerplatte, but we have a guarantee of financing this investment, we have its programme assumptions. I encourage all of you to familiarize yourself with such a graphic presentation of the program assumptions, which is in the public domain. It takes an hour and a half. I do not wish to take your time, so I will not tell you what Westerplatte will look like in the future, but the investment process is scheduled for 2020-202027. The Westerplatte cemetery has been selected as a result of an international competition, and procedures are under way for its implementation. It is on September 1, 2022 that the Westerplatte heroes will be buried by the archaeologists of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk. They've been found, Dear Lords, after 80 years. People willing to give their lives behind the Republic of Poland for 80 years were lying there like human garbage and they all forgot about them. Our archaeologists managed to find them. We're preparing a cemetery for them to be buried in. In view of all these activities around Westerplatte I am happy, happy with what I have done. I am also very pleased with the action of Fighting and Suffering, which was recognised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the biggest action in the history of Polish diplomacy after 1989. I don't know if it's necessary for me to read all the places we've been with combat and suffering. Polish citizens during World War II, but I will tell you that this exhibition was translated into 37 languages and had its opening in 160 places around the world. There wasn't a continent we couldn't find with this exhibition that I co-authored. It's actually a very special project. We didn't go to diplomatic offices, we went to public places. The opening was at the University of Barcelona or at the National Library in Oakland. Yeah, it was that kind of place. Of course, Polonia was also involved, but they were public places. So that I am very pleased that such an action of historical diplomacy has been carried out. Of course, I'm also familiar with the numbers I might be able to read, if the senator would allow me. Well, that's the question, too. These figures indicate the activity of the World War II Museum in the last 4 years. We've accepted 1,830,000 guests in the last four years. The record of daily visits is 4,000 171 people, so the number of quite large for such an institution, which, as you know, was not built by me, but was taken up to open, so it took a lot of effort to complete the whole process to prepare the museum to receive visitors in order to build a structure that provided the possibility of accepting this 1 million 830 thousand guests. We have completed more than 30 exhibitions, one of which was the "Fighting and Suffering" shown in 160 places, there were 1,700 lectures, classes and workshops in which 35,000 children took part. We have acquired, Dear Sirs and this should also be appreciated 12 thousand 436 additional exhibits for our collections, we have prepared several nationwide collections, for these collections we have built a special conservation studio, which was not in the museum. We found 50,000 objects on Westerplatte. Apart from 9 skeletons, apart from the remains of Polish heroes, of which 5 have already been identified, we managed to find 50,000 objects on Westerplatte, these are very touching things - rings, toothbrushes of our heroes... So things that tell the story not only of their struggles, their sufferings, but also of their daily lives in the Military Transit Component. This was done thanks to the 7 seasons of archaeological research at Westerplatte, which however the archaeological research required determination, because it took place in a dispute with the Gdańsk local government, but finally managed to bring them to an end and the results of these archaeological research I am presenting to you. We've also published 30 books, and we've done 226 film notations. With film notations in the Museum of World War II and the Institute of National Remembrance, both these institutions often lose the fight against PESEL, with the date of birth of people who witnessed or participated in the events of World War II. Time is very important here, and it is important to reach all corners of the world. Recently our filmmakers were in Uzbekistan and there they managed to obtain film notations from members of the Uzbek Polonia. We have made nearly 200 short films, we have managed to collect 12 thousand new titles in the library, and we have introduced changes at the exhibition, I think, will be a separate thread in this discussion. We have signed agreements with volunteers in the museum of 250 volunteers. We have also prepared a number of other projects that I may no longer talk about, and I will no longer list all these numbers. Dear Senator, it is also worth emphasising the activities of the World War II Museum in the field of modern technologies and our response to the pandemic of Coronavirus. From the very beginning, we assumed that, like the story we're talking about... Because representatives of the Polish Underground State and Poles in the face of 2 scary totalitarian systems continued to learn, did Matura, finished schools, so we, as a state institution of culture that speaks of war, cannot be afraid of a frightening but pandemic. So not only did we adapt hygienically to a closed museum, but we also converted all our activities into a social media zone and towards virtual activities. This had a huge effect on our offer of the World War II Museum virtually watched or had 30 million views. This has led us to become in a short time on many lists that study the activity of cultural institutions in the media space, the first museum in Poland. That's what Sotrender said. So this crisis related to the pandemic of Cortipinus caused us to programme our activities slightly differently, but we did not stop in the fight for education of all generations, well, in this case the younger generation of Poles Although older people also benefit from social media. We have also prepared some modern technological solutions. There is a platform called Sketchfab, and on this platform Sketchfab we are talking about Westerplatte, so we are using various technologies, virtual reality, connecting digitized areas of Westerplatte on the Sketchfab platform, showing the history of Wojciech Najsark, a railroad from the Military Transit Component to Westerplatte. I think I've exhausted the senator's question. If there's anything I can say, I'd be happy to... Maybe I'll say one more thing. Especially in the international context, the project of the World Forum for Fields Museums in 2018 and 2019 was successful. On my initiative, the World Forum for Battle Fields was established, an attempt to include Westerplatte in the context of battlefields not only of World War II, but of all battles over several centuries. The Museum of World War II was visited by representatives of museums commemorating places such as Pearl Harbor, Marathon, Marco Polo Bridge, Wanping fortress in Beijing or Getyssburg. Westerplatte was thus among museums that talk about conflicts around the world. Unfortunately, due to the pandemic, it has not been possible to formalise the work of the Association of the World Forum for Combating Fields, but in an international context, as I know and how I am convinced by fellow museums from all over the world, it is a unique initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u229	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u230	Mr. Director, tell me... Well, I don't really know how to name you right now, because you're the director of the World War II Museum and at the same time the vice president of the IPN. How do you combine these two functions in two different institutions, in two different, distant places? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question for the room, but for your director. I'd really like to ask for some peace.]] Are you present here and there? Are you functioning here and there? I am asking this question because this is the first time that I meet with one person in the leadership of two different institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u231	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, for that question. It is not difficult, because all the activities I have been talking about have, unfortunately, deprived me of the possibility of taking I have 70 days of vacation, currently staying on vacation at the World War II Museum in Gdansk. When a proposal came up from the president of Jarosław Szark that I would become vice president of the Institute of National Remembrance with a specific task I would like to talk about, of course, I decided to take a leave of absence. So that I am on leave as director of the World War II Museum in Gdansk and do my duties as vice president of the Institute of National Remembrance, responsible for a project that may be as unique as the project I mentioned just moments ago, i.e. the project Fight and Suffering. Thanks to the synergy of 2 institutions, the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk, in which we have excellent specialists from the East, from Central and Eastern Asia, from the topics of Polish soldiers in these areas... I'm talking about Dima Panto's dr. We also have exhibitors who have experience in the action "Fighting and Suffering." On the other hand, we have a great resource of the Institute of National Remembrance, audiovisual, archival and scientific resources. I managed, thanks to 2 functions in such a short time and staying on holiday at the museum, to develop a whole strategy of action, which is one of my projects, actions for the coming years. We cannot, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, sleep as a country, as the Institute of National Remembrance and the Museum of the Second World War, at which we can once again tell the whole world and Europe about General Wladyslaw Andersie and General Stanisław Maczku. [[Applause]] Between 2022 and 2025 we have a story about the path of hope of 2 wonderful Polish generals and their soldiers, who liberated Europe from Belgium, France, who fought at Monte Cassino, who of course went a long way from the Soviet Union through Persia, to Palestine, Israel. Such a project requires translation of this content into several dozen languages. We picked 130 seats... And that's what I do, Mr. Marshal, as Vice President of the Institute of National Remembrance. I try to prepare this project with synergies between the two institutions, because there is little time. As early as January 2022, we should be in Central Asia, we should be in Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u234	Thank you very much, Marshal. Doctor, I have a question. You put that statement on social media about the dead. Paul Adamowicz. The President was still alive. This statement referred to him as: "History." He doesn't understand patriotism. Scorns, Westerplatte, Polish interests It doesn't count. He loves money. And a question for you. Because you speak beautifully, these are beautiful words, but we know that this is air if we don't verify the contents. After two years of murder on Paul Adamowicz, after a systematic chase, destroying this man in various ways, can you say whether you maintain your words denying President Adamowicz patriotism, de facto Polishness?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u235	Thank you very much. Please, Doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u236	Dear Senator, my relationship with President Paul Adamowicz can indeed be described as complicated. Since 2014, I have been the head of the Public Education Office of the Gdańsk branch of the Institute of National Remembrance. In many cases I disagreed with Paul Adamowicz. We were in a public dispute, for example, about laying flowers for the Red Army soldiers in every circumstance, in which President Adamowicz considered it his duty. He and the vice presidents took part in such celebrations. I, when journalists asked me that, of course, I thought that cemeteries in Christian culture should never be destroyed, because even the soldiers of the Red Army are already in front of the Lord God, but the laying of flowers by government officials on the graves of people who murdered Poles, Polish women, raped them, also the Gdansk people, in my historical and official imagination did not fit. There were many such disputes in the pages of the Tricity newspapers, in which I participated with President Paul Adamowicz. They have always touched historical topics. I do not know this message specifically, but it seems to me that it concerns a dispute on the Westerplatte line, which also ended actually with success for Polish heroes. I mean, my determination to argue about Westerplatte and often hard language... the President used as hard or even harder language as he used to speak to me. I recommend you do the senator. That's what the president said about me. But it never did, for example. On November 1, when we met at the cemetery of Łostowice, so that we would not behave to each other in gentlemanly. That's one thing. Second thing. Now, in retrospect, from the perspective of these few years since the death of President Paweł Adamowicz, I must admit, as I have already admitted publicly in Radio Gdańsk, that despite the lasting conflict in which I was with Paweł Adamowicz It has always been a conflict in historical activities, I did not go beyond my field of historical discussion, and managed to raise President Adamowicz and me beyond certain divisions when building the monument of the Soldiers of the Cursed and creating the Alley of the Cursed Soldiers. I was Chairman of the Coalition for the Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers in Gdansk. We managed to name the alley, we managed to build a monument by the alley. Mr. President took part in this. In the case of the construction of the monument, the President disciplined the officials of the city of Gdansk, who refused to allow this monument to be erected. And this monument was created. So, Mr. Senator, it was a lively, hard conflict about the diametric differences in evaluating Polish history and evaluating the phenomenon of soldiers of the anti-communist underground or the Red Army, but a conflict that, at times of trial or those initiatives we are talking about, was able to succeed for Poland and for this story. [[I'm gonna ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u237	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u238	Doctor, I understand that you have spoken these words or published these texts as director of the museum. Yes? Or are you still the warden?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u239	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I don't know what you're... I'm not saying I didn't say those words, I'm just not ready to say when... [[In April 2018, were you still employed in IPN, or were you already the director of the museum?]] [[Voice from the room: We all remember that.]] I was already the director of the World War II Museum. [[Do you think the director of the museum is fit for such statements? Because you're not a politician, are you?]] Well, I'm not a politician. [[Voice from the room: Just like the senator now, it's not right to ask.]] [[You're not a politician...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u241	It is very interesting that you claim, Mr. Senator, that it is not right for me to ask you the words in which your candidate refused Paul Adamowicz Polishness and patriotism. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Say something like that... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u242	Dear Senator, take your nerves off. Let us hold this debate in peace. There's no reason for her not to be in peace. [[Voice from the room: The reasons are me...]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u243	And one last question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: I would like to refer...]] I understand that you will not withdraw from these words, as if refusing Paweł Adamowicz patriotism and Polishness. But here's the question, Doctor... [[Voice from the room: This is outrageous...]] Have you ever been... Because I have a picture of you in the law and justice office taken against the PiS banner. Have you ever been a member of the PiS Party or made a declaration at the PiS? [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: May I refer to... May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u244	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u245	These words are part of the first issue, Mr. Senator. A hard, manly debate from the dead. President Paul Adamowicz, with whom I was in a lasting public conflict, which did not interfere with the things I told the senator. And I think that closes the line. Like I said, you'd have to be a senator... well, you wouldn't have to, but it would be appropriate to create a broader context for one statement. or Facebook content, because the President really wasn't more gracious. He was saying the words I think he was saying, and I'm even convinced of it. He shouldn't speak to a man... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, and you said...]] ...who's got a clean slate and who's going into non-political action. And I'm going to answer the senator's second question. This picture you probably have, because it's the only picture of me, it's a picture I'm not ashamed of, and I'm proud of, because it's a picture of you sleeping. Mr Jerzy Wolf of Elbląg. I was preparing the monograph of the "Solidarity" of the Elbląg region, and Mr.Jerzy Wilk was a very active activist of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, persecuted by security in 1989 as president of the Civic Committee. He was very active in the world to restore truth, Polish memory and history already as a Member, as a political activist. I don't, sir, find any reason to be ashamed in the presence of Mr. George Wolf. Because I understand it's about that photo in Elbląg, right? [[Doctor, I know you're very rhetorical...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] [[...but I asked you a simple question...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, but please...]] (Senator Krzysztof Brejza:... did you make a membership declaration in PiS.) [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please wait until the doctor is finished so that this is not a discussion...]] I'll answer it. [[Yes or no. We know...]] [[Voice from the room: No problem...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dear Senator, I have never been and I am not a member of any political party, I have never made any political declaration, which does not change the fact that like every free citizen I have my political sympathies.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u246	Thank you. Mr. Senator, do you want to ask another question? [[Yes, I'll ask you one more thing...]] [[But there's a line...]] There's a line, but the senator said he had a few questions. [[Voice from the O.R.:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u247	You said about President Adamowicz: President Adamowicz does not understand substantive, patriotic, historical arguments... [[The voice from the room: It's the same...]] ...and as we know, he understands financial arguments, he loves to collect finance. I still wonder how the director of the museum, the head of the Institute of National Remembrance, is functioning, i.e. the person who, due to the functions performed, should have a certain, delicately said, neutrality in political assessments. I also know that you filed a notice to the prosecution against President Paul Adamowicz. Right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: No, Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u248	Thank you very much. [[What was the result of this notification? Do you have that information?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u249	The notice concerned more the director of Paweł Machcewicz, not the president of Paweł Adamowicz, Dear Senator, and the case was at the interface of the museum, which I took over as director and the office of the city of Gdańsk, because the situation in which the museum disposes of its property, which costs the museum 1 million PLN, i.e. it is also financed by state resources, and is disposed of in the first days of April, when I start office, just to prevent us from operating on Westerplatte, is, however, a reckless disposal of state resources. So this notice mainly concerned, as I recall, the director of Paweł Machcewicz and was in contact with the city office. I find that this was a completely unnecessary action and the beginning of the whole conflict, the action of the previous directorate leading to such a brutal, ruthless way of getting rid of the possibilities of the functioning of the state cultural institution on Westerplatte. So I don't think I did the wrong thing at the time. [[And what was the formal assessment...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u250	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this is not a discussion. Perhaps in the discussion... Mr. Senator, I'd like to sign you up. I'd like to ask Senator Halina Poor now, and if the senator wants to ask any more questions, please sign up again. Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal, Doctor, I'd like to ask you a question like this. In your initial speech, I believe you mentioned all the fathers of independence, except Wojciech Korfanty. I'd like to ask if it's a coincidence or a deliberate omission. And the second question, regarding the custody of archives or the taking over of archives, I can't remember what word You used it. Archives located outside the country. I am referring mainly to the insurgent archive located at the Institute of Józef Piłsudski in New York. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u252	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u253	I apologize to all Silesians, I apologize to the senator for not mentioning Wojciech Korfanty among the fathers of independence. I tried to outline this statement around the political extremes of the figures of the fathers of independence, hence beside Józef Haller, who had, as we know, national views, I named Ignacy Daszyński, next to Józef Piłsudski. Roman Dmowski. Wojciech Korfanty was one of the very important fathers of Polish independence, certainly. As for New York and the Institute of Józef Piłsudski, I have, Mrs. Senator, such a belief that these documents are in good condition. The Institute of Józef Piłsudski in New York operates on the principles of a very specialized and good institution, which certainly requires the aid of the Polish state. I meant more these foundations, Polish associations, which are not so well organized and are not as vibrant as the Institute of Józef Piłsudski. These relics of Polishness are often found in private apartments, in private garages, in private houses. These people, just to be clear, do big, important things, do their best, but they don't have the same opportunities as the state agendas, which is why it's on my program. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u254	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Director, I have a little general question. Will you, as president of the National Remembrance Institute, maintain the current work line of the Institute of National Remembrance? My point is that for many, many years, at least in the reception of my environment, the environment derived from the left-wing independence of the PPS, the work of the IPN has actually only gone in one direction, i.e. dealing with the underworld of independence between 1944 and 1956. Here huge works are undertaken, there are expenditures, whole institutions, museums and so on. This is, however, when we look at the martyrdom of the Polish people in the 20th century, of course, the episode, once forgotten, neglected, but not as big as it would seem. Many more people died, many more Poles were murdered by Germans or by Soviets under different circumstances. In my mind, perhaps it would be appropriate to redirect these forces to... you yourself emphasize your role in honoring the Soldiers of the Cursed. Maybe we should redirect these forces to another direction, because I have the impression that this other story is no longer in the field of IPN interest. Are you gonna keep the line up, or are you gonna change it in some way? And an extra two questions. Do you know the case of Jan Martyniak, the guerrilla of the WRN People's Guard? That's a question. And two: how do you assess the condition, the way of commemorating the Polish heroes who died on the Citadel's Stokes? Have you been there lately at the Death Gate, or have you seen how your institution also cares about the memory of those people who died there being hanged? Yesterday, as we know, was the anniversary of Stefan Okra's death. I'd like to know if you were there at all and if you know what it looks like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u256	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u257	Thank you, Senator. Maybe I'll start answering from the end. Unfortunately, I wasn't at the Citadel's death scene, but I'm gonna find out what the case is. I wouldn't want to take grades without knowing... just getting to know the subject at this point. On the other hand, I know the case of Jan Martyniak and here on behalf of the Institute of National Remembrance I can say that this case was originally misjudged. Jan Martyniak was a activist of the People's Guard, Freedom, Equality, Independence, as the senator mentioned, the People's Guard of the Polish Socialist Party, headed at some point by Kazimierz Pógak, also oppressed by the communist system. Hero of Polish independence about socialist life, left-wing, anti-communist socialist, as we might say. Jan Martyniak deserves to be commemorated in public space and will definitely be commemorated. I can make a declaration on behalf of the Institute of National Remembrance that the work related to John Martyniak's grave will be completed, not because the senator asks if he asks, not because it is a courtesy on my part related to today's vote, but because Jan Martyniak... And Jan Martyniak, and Adam Pragier, and Kazimierz Póżak, and other heroes of the Polish independence left deserve their commemoration in public space. They do not, in my appreciation, deserve this commemoration, Dear Sirs. And I'd like to make that very clear, too. Those who served the foreign cause of the state, those who only started to implement projects and plans of a foreign state in Poland and to install a Soviet agent in Poland after the attack of 2 allies, i.e. the Third Reich on the Soviet Union. Well, I wouldn't compare the heroes of the Underground of the People's Guard with the People's Guard of the PPR. These are 2 completely separate organisms. The memory of Jan Martyniak, so to speak, became the object of some misunderstanding and there were doubts about his grave. My declaration is that the Institute of National Remembrance is dealing with this matter and it will definitely be handled to the end. Of course, I will carry out the tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance, which I consider to be good and appropriate, also in the publishing and scientific sector. I have a different opinion here than the senator. It seems to me that the study of the anti-communist underground after 1945, the study of the 1960s, 1970s, the Stalinist era takes place in natural, reliable and independent conditions for so short that it is too short for science. This aspect of activity, Polish history, should continue to be explored. Surely we should not forget those heroes who served Polish independence and came from the socialist movement. When the senator spoke, I immediately thought of Mieczysław Niedziałkowski, who was a socialist activist, but also a victim of German crimes in Palmirach. There's more names like that. The Lydia and Adam Ciołkosz, Kazimierz Póżak are Polish heroes. Taking advantage of the opportunity that the senator asked this question, I would say that I would not agree with the fact that the current line of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance eliminated such heroes. There is a great book by Prof. Karol Sacewicz, about anti-communist socialism about such activists who served the independent Republic of Poland, its sovereignty and were socialists. There is also an excellent book of socialism or independence?, which ends with the conclusion of socialism and independence. It is a book with the introduction of Prof. Vladimir Sulea, a book referring precisely to the socialist movement, which often, just as Felix Perl had preached, was very clear in its legitimacy to communist parties. So in this context, I think, there is no controversy at the Institute of National Remembrance today. I would like to continue this line at the Institute of National Remembrance. These heroes deserve to be remembered and remembered.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u258	Thank you. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Doctor, I have a question about a matter that you have already mentioned in a brief presentation of your vision of managing the institute, namely publishing activities. You mentioned a little bit, and I think it's a little bit known about the huge effort of the research workers of the Institute of National Remembrance. Unfortunately, these publications are only available within the field work of the institute. Would the doctor, as the president of the Institute of National Remembrance, find a solution for these historical works, especially those referring very often to regional history, heroes, to be more widely available or more widely known? I think it would convince a lot of history enthusiasts who doubt stories created at different times, especially World War II. Here I would like to pay particular attention to the huge effort of the Department of the Institute of National Remembrance in Kielce regarding the study of martyrdom, martyrdom of the Polish village. The last great event in the area of Świętokrzyskie, the dedication of the mausoleum to public sightseeing... I encourage the senators to see this monument, this great and architectural, and historical event. So what I'm talking about is activating the ability to get the works that the historians of the Institute of National Remembrance are working on. And last but not least, I have one more question. Fascinating about the bias of Senator Breyza's questions, I'd like to inform you that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But, Mr. Senator, question, question...]] But one sentence, Mrs. Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: But will there be a question?]] Yeah, that'll be a question. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There will be a question.]] Was it known that your predecessor, Prof. Machcewicz, first, on 1 September 2008, was appointed chief advisor in the cabinet of Prime Minister Donald Tusk, and 3 months later was appointed director of the World War II Museum, and these 2 functions were held in parallel from 2008 to 2014? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u260	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. If this is the question, then I will say that yes, I knew that my predecessor, Prof. Paweł Machcewicz, on the one hand, was the advisor to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, and on the other hand the director of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk, and on the other hand he was still a scientist at the Polish Academy of Sciences or at the University of Warsaw, now I do not remember it at all. So he stayed on three jobs, apparently. Although I didn't go into that exactly. As far as the publishing house is concerned, I think that it is in a good tone today that all publishing houses of the Institute of National Remembrance (National Remembrance Institute) and the publishing department (Publishing Department) should be prepared also in the form of pdf, which is more widely available. And I will certainly take care, Mr. Senator, that the publishing houses remain not only in the form of a traditional book. Of course, every decent publishing house should have a book form, but today it is certainly an obligation to share publications, books, publications for reading on the Kindle, on available electronic devices or in the form of pdf. I can also share my experience of work on the one hand at the national institution of culture, and on the other hand at the Institute of National Remembrance. In the case of the Institute of National Remembrance, there is a formal legal problem, because all publishing houses, all products of the Institute of National Remembrance, to put it rudely, I apologize for this term, which is sold in bookstores and in free space... The financing in this connection returns to the Treasury and is otherwise used. A state institutions of culture, such as: The Museum of World War II in Gdansk, has the opportunity to conduct independent commercial activities outside the grant system. Selling books and selling another assortment makes the institution in a sense enriching itself by converting these finances, for example to promote publications, to their wider availability, increases promotional opportunities. This is, to some extent, a statutory, statutory problem, and it would be worth looking at, in order to further disseminate the several thousand publications prepared by the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u262	Thank you, Mr. Director. I'll ask Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u263	Dear Marshal, Mr. Director! I have three questions for you. The first question concerns your career at the World War II Museum. In October last year you were extended your term of office until 2027. You spoke a lot about this museum, about the extension of the museum. Why did you decide, despite your extended term, to run for office and leave the project in progress? That's the first question. The second question is about promotion, rather controversial, and I'd like you to explain it. You promoted the World War II Museum by supporting commercial boxing gala. The logo of the Museum of World War II was placed in the middle of the ring, and you were handing out honors to the fighters. Do you not think that symbols such as the symbol of the World War II Museum, which speaks of the martyrdom of Poles, the death of millions of lives, should not be promoted or used in such a way? That's the first question... I mean. The second, but the first of this series. And the question about the first one. On the 70th anniversary of the battle of Monte Cassino you released socks with a quote from the famous song about poppies that drank Polish blood. Don't you think that kind of promotion is a hero's memory? I'll remind you of a part of a movie where one of the ladies wanted to dance to that song. It was interrupted and said: "This one does not dance. Don't you think it's too much?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal, I answer from the end. Of course, I think it's too much, those Westerplatte theme socks, and they should never have come up with that quote. It wasn't my decision, and as soon as I found out about this idea, I stopped him and apologized to everyone who was offended. I, too, was offended by socks related to this issue. This is probably the place for a wider discussion, I don't know if it's in the upper chamber, but to answer your question, I want to say that the director of the Museum of the Second World War and every director of the museum in the 21st century is balancing every day between the sacrum of Polish history and the profanum of changing reality. All museums in the world, the Imperial War Museum, the Holocaust Memorial, the European Solidarity Centre, the World War II Museum, any museum I could name, are active on the promotional field. For me, Westerplatte's socks were over the limit of good taste, so I reacted to that, but I find that promotion through patriotic T-shirts, patriotic, although I don't like that term, gadgets, but with taste in mind, is now part of the educational activity. That's my answer to that question. Your marshal also asked me why I decided to run for this noble office. Well, my deputy, Professor Grzegorz Berendt, a world-class professional, a professional in Polish-Jewish relations, decided that he could take over the control of the Museum of World War II. That thought has grown in him for a long time. He would like to run, he is ready to become the director of the World War II Museum in Gdansk. He was not ready for this earlier due to some formal, administrative ambiguities that had taken place for several years in the Museum of World War II. This situation has changed. I would never leave Westerplatte, this magnificent Gdańsk work, which in 2027 all Poles would be able to see if I did not believe that I could leave the Museum of World War II to such an excellent professional as Professor Grzegorz Berendt. So that's the answer to that question. The reality has changed, and there is someone who will certainly be as well or better on this mission. I am very pleased, Mrs Marshal, that today before all of you here, here I can tell you about boxing and these emerging allegations concerning the co-organization of boxing galleries by the Museum of World War II. Your Marshal has said beautifully about the victims of World War II. Among these victims of World War II were many Polish athletes. Polish athletes fought in September 1939, Polish athletes fought on the trail of General Anders' army, they were boxers, footballers. Polish athletes from Gdansk club Gedani in the first days of September as a part of Poland lost their lives, then died in German concentration camps. Among them were two people who were involved in our gala. The first one is Jan Bianga. Jan Bianga is an employee of the General Commission of the Republic of Poland in the Free City of Gdańsk, a boxer of Gedania. His name was given to her gala by one of the boxing federations, whom we gave patronage to this event to promote Jan Bianga, who was a very brave man. There's a record of a conversation where he simply refuses to cooperate with the Gestapo. He was a boxer, and I understand that this postulate... Because as I read the press and as I listened to your marshals, I realized that this was not a request to exclude Polish sports movement from the victims of World War II or especially boxers just because someone did not like it. Yes, the boxers were participants in World War II, as were many other athletes, and Jan Bianga is a great Polish hero. Besides, at this gala, Mrs. Barbara Bianga-Janczukovich, whom I warmly greeted, handed this cup with me. The promotion of fighters who can become a model for a young generation not interested in history, and who served the Republic of Poland, should, I think, be part of educational activities. The second gala, Mrs Marshal, referred to the figure of Tadeusz Pietrzykowski, a boxing phenomenon in German concentration camps, not only among Poles. It was the man who was forced by the Germans to fight boxing, who fought these fights, which gave him the opportunity to survive. In his memoirs, Captain Witold Pilecki writes that thanks to Tadeusz Pietrzykowski, who, in the fights for the bare fists, forced by the Germans and fought 70 of them, most of them won... The Polish underground in Auschwitz was able to function because Teddy Pietrzykowski won a piece of margarine and a slice of bread in these fights. After 1945 and before that there were other concentration camps, because he fought not only in the German concentration camp Auschwitz, but also in Bergen-Belsen, this man returned to Poland. Eleanor Szafran-Pietrzykowska took part in this gala, who also handed me the cup, i.e. the daughter of Tadeusz Pietrzykowski. Teddy Pietrzykowski also defended and protected the Holy Father Maximilian Kolbe in the concentration camp. So I am sorry, I do not understand the situation in which, as director of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk, I would like to exclude Polish athletes or beautiful characters such as Teddy Pietrzykowski or Jan Bianga from universal consciousness and from universal memory. We did it, as your marshal mentioned, with commercial television. Thanks to our action, thanks to the action of the World War II Museum, these 2 names reached 150 thousand people, and the young boxers who participated in this show their fascination with these two great characters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u266	Thank you, Doctor. Now Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u267	Dear Doctor, in recent years the Institute of National Remembrance has focused on using the knowledge gathered in the IPN to pursue historical policy and attack political antagonists of the current ruling camp. Based on materials collected by the Security Service in the times of the Polish People's Republic, the truth about the history of recent decades is distorted. And the question is: do you think that the historical truth should be decided by knowledge, information prepared by the esbeks, or rather the certificates of Poles who fought for free Poland, were arrested, locked up, beaten, interned? That's the first question. Second question. Since 2017, you have been managing the Museum of World War II in Gdansk. After you took over the museum, you made a personal purge there. You're fighting opposition against the PIS authorities of Gdansk. After becoming President of the IPN, as a human resource management specialist, do you have plans to carry out personal cleaning also in this institution? Do you allow cooperation with people with different views and organisations that do not share your vision of the world? The possibility of cooperation and compromise in the case of this institution, which works on sensitive data that often affect human fate, is very important. Are you capable of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u268	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u269	Dear Senator, on the question whether the documents of the Security Service or the relations decide on the objective shape of historical events, I will answer quite surprisingly: neither; both. I mean, a historian who's working on the latest story. I prepared my doctoral dissertation and several books on the latest history of Poland It is obliged to know the documents of the Security Service, because this is one of the sources that cannot be overlooked, to know the publication, to know the press of a given period, to know the administrative documents of the PZPR Regional Committee and all government agencies, but also to talk to those with whom you can talk. In preparing my PhD, I used 150 relationships, but I couldn't tell and assure the senator that based on the relationship itself, an objective picture of history can be created. You have to use them, you have to listen to these people, but we often experience a situation where we have 5 different accounts about one event. And here, whether it's the Security Service's operational relationship or the publicist, they're the source that needs to be exploited. And so do employees and historians of the Institute of National Remembrance use a whole range of sources. And it's obvious to historians, natural. As for my plans for the staff of the Institute of National Remembrance, I must say, Dear Senator, that I know many of them, because already in 2009 I worked at the Institute of National Remembrance. Many excellent specialists, archivists and historians work there. And never in the Museum of World War II And this will not be the case at the Institute of National Remembrance, political views did not decide who was working and who was not working, but decided on the attitude to work, on the agreed tasks and objectives. I think the word "clean" is far away. Indeed, work in the Museum of World War II in Gdańsk for various reasons, as a result of my decisions, but also as a result of my own decisions, lost dozens of people. In other words, a few dozen people came out of the World War II Museum, but many of them of their own free will, because they couldn't imagine the possibility of working with me. I leave this to the free will of the workers, but as an employer, I would also like to have free will in making decisions, but I would like to assess the effectiveness of the work, not the political views of the workers. I'm not interested in these. I assure you, Senator, that in the Museum of the Second World War in Gdańsk there are employees and professionals who would probably disagree with some of my views here today, because they have a different view of the historical situation, other opinions or write other books.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u270	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, two questions. One is the problem that we meet every once in a while, even in this Chamber, namely the issue, I would call it, the non-closure of the World War II account, in particular the calculation of losses that Poland has suffered, in various aspects: material, personal, cultural, etc. In my opinion, only the IPN has the necessary powers and means to deal with this professionally, not on the basis of parliamentary team, but rather, first, officially, and secondly, professionally. What do you think about that? Can you expect in a certain way I do not know what to call structural changes in the institute itself so that it can be addressed? 'Cause it's gonna be necessary anyway. Every now and then it's gonna be hiccups, even in international relations. And then there's the second line. There are other areas that... I wouldn't call them dark spots, but they're stains. They're not clear yet, they're gray, let's call it that. I believe that this is still the problem of the murders of Volyn, in general Ukrainian murders in Poles during World War II. We have problems there, although these problems are rather due to a general policy towards Ukraine. Well, we can't start the simplest steps, i.e. exhumation, because any such problem, starting with what I was talking about earlier... First, there's scientific work. It's often a field job or an archive. Then there is the development of materials, and at the end of their presentation and education on this subject. And I have a question: what do you think about it, I would call it in general, the Volyn massacre, and not only the Volyn slaughter, but also this whole conglomerate of matters connected with Polish-Ukrainian relations and this hecatomb which Poles experienced during World War II by the Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u272	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u273	As regards the issue of World War II and the terrible losses of the Polish nation, not only in the living tissue of the Polish nation, which is of course the most important, but also in the field of Polish infrastructure, it is essential to finally assess, identify and show, also in the international context, the scale of this crime. I had the opportunity to present my agenda to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, which was before the first choice. And one of the important points I would like to tell you about was the strengthening of the National Remembrance Institute of the German Crimes team, but also the Soviet crimes during World War II. Such a team at the Institute of National Remembrance operates, headed by Dr. Rafał Leśkiewicz. Prosecutors are also involved in this process. If I succeed in becoming president of the Institute of National Remembrance, it will be one of the priorities of the Institute of National Remembrance. We will prepare not only scientific monographs, but also popular scientific catalogues in all congress languages. We will talk about the scale of the crime on the Polish nation in the years of World War II. So I really feel, just like the senator, that this is one of the fundamental things that the Institute of National Remembrance will do, of course, not in a formal legal context or even in an international context. It is about historical documentation of this, about the preparation of this kind of publication. Of course, the Volyn genocide was a terrifying crime of Ukrainian nationalists on the Polish nation. The general principle of the Institute of National Remembrance under my potential direction will be that we will insist on all the victims of all the regimes that murdered Poles. Until we can determine all the locations of the murder and burial, until we can exhume the victims of the Volyn crime, the Institute of National Remembrance and its employees will not be able to feel the full task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u274	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Brejza. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u275	Thank you very much. Doctor, I am returning to your dispute with the government of Gdansk. You filed a notice against Paul Adamowicz and your predecessor, Mr Machcewicz. It's known that in this case... According to Mr Machcewicz, two CBA agents arrived at my home in Warsaw. They found my son, and they told him they were around first, and they looked at him. Then, after identification, it turned out that they came specially from Gdansk. They've been looking for me, asking questions about how long I've been abroad. 'Cause Mr. Machcewicz's on scholarship. Then they left a CBA agent's phone to interrogate me about alleged damage to the Museum of World War II. It was a matter of your notification. Do you know how this case ended? I'm gonna die. I'm gonna die. And now the question... And we realize now that neither the prosecutor's office nor the servants, to put it mildly, are independent of the PiS, and we know very well that if anything in your notice were true, this would not be the end of the matter. Hence the question: why did you make this notification, and was it worth making life so difficult for Adamowicz and Machcewicz?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u276	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u277	Dear Senator, this case ended in the same way that President Paweł Adamowicz applied me to the prosecutor's office for the wrong spending promotional money at the Second World War Museum in Gdansk. I've been applied to the D.A.'s office, too. President Adamowicz felt that he had the right to do so and that he would like to report it to the DA. And the D.A.'s office canceled it, too. So let me not refer to, I see, an interesting senator's political issues regarding the functioning of the Central Anti-corruption Office. I will repeat once again: I thought that the transfer by the director of the state institution of culture of the property of the II World War Museum in Gdansk for the benefit of local government Nothing unmotivated, to the detriment of this institution, and by day you are no longer its director, is illegal and frivolous. He's trying to obstruct another director, which is me. That was the decision I made, and her accident was the intervention you were talking about, the senator. Well, I'm not going to dwell on it. That's my position. [[So we come to the conclusion, Mr. Director, that there was no damage, that you were wrong. And the question now is, do you know the settlement of the interministerial committee...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u278	Excuse me, you still want to ask, right? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] This, Mr. Senator, is in the form of questions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Are you, Doctor...]] And this side of the room. I'm sorry. I ask you to be quiet and listen with due respect, which is due to each of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u279	Doctor, do you know the outcome of the Interministerial Committee on Public Finance Discipline on the allegations made to Paul Adamowicz and Mr Machcewicz in 2018? How did this case end before this committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u280	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u281	Extremely, because I haven't done it yet, Senator, at this meeting. I'll let you answer the question with a question. Does the senator realize that this consistent stubbornness and claiming Westerplatte didn't just make us find nine skeletons, human remains... It was part of a dispute. Those things you said led us to a unique state success. Indeed, my stubbornness, consistency and readiness for such debates and discussions with President Adamowicz, which ended with the President's reaction towards me, but she was also given up, and my feeling that Paweł Machcewicz should not do such things, led to the discovery of 9 skeletons of these heroes soon to be buried. Fifty thousand exhibits and one more, sir. I didn't say that, but I would like to stress that, my dears and gentlemen. On Westerplatte, as a result of our bomb investigation, we found a 500-kilogram, semi-ton bomb with a spread of up to 1 thousand 350 m, weighing 250 kg, a bomb that was 25 m behind the tour path 30 cm below the surface of the ground. Our bomb squad also found 60 artillery missiles, 2 152 mm rounds, 2 122 mm rounds, 7 37 mm rounds, etc., etc. Regardless of this conflict, Dear Senator, Dear Sir, regardless of what has been happening in public space, this determination has made it possible that perhaps their lives can be preserved by people who come as tourists on Westerplatte 'Cause no one's ever looked in Westerplatte. And that Polish heroes regained their dignity. I hope that I will be able to convince the senator of such reflection that the effect of these actions is that soon Westerplatte for the senators and this side, and from this side will be a place that we will be able to show the whole world as the place of the outbreak of World War II, while our heroes will be buried with dignity and tourists will preserve their lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u282	Thank you, Doctor. [[Thank you very much. Only, Doctor, you didn't answer the question. I asked about the decision of the interministerial committee on public finance discipline.]] Oh, you didn't answer the question... [[The Lord answered...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u283	I don't know, Mr. Senator, the settlement of the interministerial committee. [[It was also negative, or positive for Paul Adamowicz and Mr Machcewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u284	Thank you very much. I'd also like to ask you something. I don't think it's right to ask as a guide, but... [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: Do not be embarrassed, Mr. Marshal.]] This isn't about eight skeletons. The argument wasn't about... Was the dispute about... [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, was responsible for an important...]] That you knew there were eight skeletons in there? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: No, Mr. Marshal...]] It wasn't about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u285	No, no. This argument wasn't about that. The argument concerning archaeological research was part of the dispute with the local government. Let's admit it objectively, Mr. Marshal. In archaeological research and missions... [[Yeah, archaeological research...]] But without archaeological research, these skeletons wouldn't be found.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u286	Okay, Doctor. That sounded a little different. [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: Jasne.]] Mrs Magdalena Kochan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm listening to your answers, a man who's not much older than our independence. I really admire the stubbornness with which you approach your goals. At such moments I often say hats off, gentlemen, because such stubbornness leads to good things. However, I am having difficulty listening to your statements today, and I cannot move on to the fact that you speak lightly about the dismissal of 70 people, as if 70 families of these people, probably often older than you, do not deserve respect. They weren't responding to you, so you just fired them from the community. In my opinion, we have a labour code. Convincing, cooperating with your director, sympathy or lack of them is not a prerequisite for firing people from work. I'm more affected than the fact itself by the way you talk about it. In my opinion, this is not the best recommendation for the future director, the head of the Institute of National Remembrance, because the national memory consists not only of those decades that have passed, but also of the last 30 years, of what we have come to thanks to many people who do not represent the views of the rulers today. And I'd like to ask these people. [[Mrs. Senator...]] I'm off, Mr. Marshal. [[Senator, I'd like to ask you a question.]] Yeah, that's right. You, as a Gdansk man, couldn't underestimate the development of the city in which you live. I come there rarely and I really am in love with Gdansk, I am full of admiration for the local authorities Tricity, not only Gdansk. And my question is, are you, and if so, in the Institute of National Remembrance, going to care for those who disagree with the line of historical politics today? Are you going to do the same as the Poles? Here we agree to take care of citizens, about the memory of Polish citizens other than Polish origins, also of patriots? Are you asleep? Paweł Adamowicz will earn his place at the Institute of National Remembrance, or will he not deserve because of the dispute that you led with this fantastic, wonderful self-governmentman?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u289	Dear Senator, saying that I fired 70 people is kind of a misunderstanding. I said 70 people left in different modes from the World War II Museum. I clearly emphasized that some of them were fired. 1,5% people who have been released have been released among certain controversys, but the essential part is those who also emphasized this in my first statement. They have resigned from cooperation with me or with whom we have signed termination agreements. This number is a kind of misunderstanding. I, even though I am young, am as a researcher of Solidarity, a person attached to ideals of Solidarity. In the Museum of the Second World War in Gdansk, there is a Works Commission for Solidarity, I am in constant agreement with it. So if you sensed the honorable senator's lightness in talking about these people, it may have come from my belief that some of them simply made a free choice, and in this case I feel light. But firing every employee, even one who doesn't do his job well, is a burden, and I don't feel light about this type of decision, but sometimes decisions like that have to be made, although these are not easy choices. As regards the citizens of the Second Republic who defended with such courage in September 1939. The Republic of Poland, they are appreciated at exhibitions of the Museum of World War II. This international project, which I was talking about, brought to the world information that the Second Republic was a conglomerate of different nationalities. It was a Jewish minority who even fought in the II Corps, although some of its representatives had already stayed in Palestine, the Belarusian minority, the Ukrainian. I cooperated with these unions, I was in touch. Of course, these people and Polish soldiers are appreciated at exhibitions of the World War II Museum in Gdańsk and Ukrainian, Belarusian or Jewish origins do not exclude from historical narratives and stories about Polish heroes September 1939, the II Corps and other military formations. Besides, I've had this experience. It's a personal experience. That I grew up with the present president of the Muslim community in Gdansk Olgierd Chazbijewicz, whom I warmly greet, hence the history of the Polish Tatars, patriotic Polish Tatars and the Polish Tatar regiment, who fought in 1939, is close to me. Nationality certainly does not exclude national memory from the canon. The Institute of National Remembrance legally deals with history until the fall of the communist system, until 1989, so I feel relieved from answering the question of the honourable senator concerning the 1990s. I am a Gdańskian, a proud Gdańskian, especially a Pole born in Gdansk, but these assessments of Gdansk as a place to live, I think, will leave for some other discussion, because I do not think this concerns our meeting. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question? Because I don't agree with the candidate here, because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u290	I understand, but in the form of a question, speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u291	Yes, in the form of a question. You say by 1990. Yes, it's true, to Poland's independence. But before that, someone was working to make it happen. Hence my question about the memory of such characters as Tadeusz Mazowiecki, like Professor Geremek and all the others... [[Voice from the hall: Lech Wałęsa.]] Yeah, and Lech Wałęsa. The question is, will they find a place in the memory of this institute at the head... of which you're going to be head.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u292	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u293	I'd be happy to answer that question to the senator, perhaps using the circumstances we're in. We are in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the session is conducted by a marshal, who is a historical figure before 1989, there is Senator Mamytkow, who was also a prisoner of the communist prison and an activist of the anti-communist opposition, among the senators is Mr Antoni Mężydło, an extremely brave man of the anti-communist opposition of the second half of the 1970s and 1980s... [[We know our colleagues.]] But that's the answer to the senator's question. I don't know if there is a Mr. Grzegorz Bierecki somewhere in the room, who was also an active activist of the Independent Student Association and many student organisations before 1989, and if... [[You're kidding us.]] [[Excuse me, but... answer me, please.]] So when we look at today's Senate through political action, we see that you are, and that is natural, on different sides of the political dispute. However, for me as a historian, for the Institute of National Remembrance, and this many times in these answers sounded like... If I were to evaluate the opposition resumes of the four senators I mentioned, I would have to say that these sympathies, temperatures, and political morphology are of no interest to me. Dear Senator, I am a historian. I have a chance to be president of the National Remembrance Institute. The Institute of National Remembrance will care about the memory of Polish heroes of the anti-communist underground, who are, which is also worth mentioning, the heroes of my freedom. As a man born in 1983, I thank all of you who were involved in the fight against the communist system that I can live in free and independent Poland. Today's political emblems, especially in the context of the historical activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, do not interest me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u294	Thank you very much. I'm grateful that Antek and I are getting a place in the IPN. [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Committee on the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: Mr. Marshal, the history has...]] And also with Mr. Mama's, etc. [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: Exactly.]] I'm grateful to you, but obviously this isn't about personalities, it's about certain... [[Voice from the hall: You can drink water.]] Yeah, you can have some water... [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: I will hold out, thank you.]] ...but I'm about to announce a recess. It's about some balance that I'm saying is missing. And do you see this imbalance in the last few years? It's about balancing it. Some have more weight, others have less weight... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Karol Nawrocki: I have no influence on this, Mr. Marshal.]] ...in political terms, of course. [[Voice from the room: Some people have...]] It's not about body weight, of course. Okay, Mr. Director, I won't bother you about that. Jan Maria Jackowski. The senator is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u295	Thank you very much. Doctor, I have a few questions. My first question is whether you will maintain the existing IPN structure. I'm talking about these verticals. How do you see the future of the Institute of National Remembrance CSI? How do you even see these things? Are you going to make a difference in this structure if you become president of the Institute of National Remembrance? My second question is how in your opinion the Institute of National Remembrance could activate on the international stage. As far as historical disputes, evaluations of dramatic events and totalitarianisms of the 20th century are concerned, in Poland there are some differences, nuances, etc., but the main problem I see is the international narrative, and especially the contradictions in this area and certain stereotypes that appear in the international space. Do you have any idea how to activate the Institute of National Remembrance in this area? And the third point, here too, I would ask for an answer. We know there was an agreement with Ukraine on... This issue has already been voiced in the statements of fellow senators who have asked questions before, but I would like to ask if you see the possibility of overcoming tensions in relations with the Ukrainian side, so that these exhumations can be conducted, which our party, the Polish state, is seeking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u296	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. Indeed, contacts and relations between the Institute of National Remembrance with the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance before the outbreak of the war and Russian aggression were much better. There was a working group, and everything pointed out that there would be some consensus between these institutions, including on the issue of exhumation in Volyn. Unfortunately, the geopolitical situation has changed. The Russian attack on Ukraine caused It seems natural from the point of view of Ukrainian historical diplomacy, but it is detrimental to the Republic of Poland The Ukrainian side, however, has become a little stiff on these issues. Well, she's taken care of sticking up her national sense of independence and her willingness to fight the Eastern Neighbor. Of course, we will continue to strive for cooperation with the Ukrainian IPN to return to the dynamics known before this conflict. I will try to act in this direction and raise this issue. For today I must admit, Mr. Senator, that I am a pessimist. I think that until the issues of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict are resolved, the Ukrainian side will in a certain sense be stiffened, which does not change the fact that we will strive with determination to exhume in Ukraine and cooperate between these two institutions. Maybe I can move on to international issues now. This is indeed a fairly big problem of the Institute of National Remembrance. Here, the Institute of National Remembrance requires strong dynamics of action and involvement in historical diplomacy, support of state agendas in international historical dialogue. I'm an intern. on this point. In the Museum of World War II we have prepared an international project translated into 37 languages, which I spoke about. There was one element that made us listen in the world: searching for elements common in the history of both nations. Such an excellent example is the publication and exhibition that circulates around the United States, the Million overseas, the publication about a million American soldiers of Polish origin during World War II. Ladies and gentlemen, the Poles have already died in Pearl Harbor. There are names on the tablets: Kalinowski, Malinowski, Gabby, Gabreski, it was the ass of American aviation, which had Polish origins. The Americans are open to this story because it's also part of their story. This is a story that tells about their nation, their important battles. And this is how I would like to seek an international agreement between cultural, historical and educational institutions. There are, of course, many threads like that. In my work programme, which I submitted to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, I also proposed an annual meeting and properly preparing the offer of the Institute of National Remembrance in foreign languages for diplomats who are in Warsaw. That's not the kind of meeting we've had so far. I think that this is a non-energy-absorbing element of the beginning of some kind of international dialogue, i.e. preparation or sharing of the Institute's offer in the community of ambassadors of all countries who are in Warsaw, and establishing such cooperation. Surely the senator's diagnosis that the institute should be more active in this context is correct and I agree with it. The criminal prosecution committee against the Polish Nationals is a subject often raised in public opinion. I'm pretty pragmatic here. The parliamentary majority's will in 1998 was that the commission for prosecuting crimes should be part of the Institute of National Remembrance, even though the deputy attorney general, the head of the commission for prosecuting crimes, operates under a completely different law, the law on the prosecution, so he is independent of the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. And many people don't know that either. And he's subject to the Attorney General. In 2016, on the occasion of the reform, the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, for the second time the will of the parliamentary majority was that the prosecuting committee Also those 82 prosecutors from the law enforcement department remain within the National Remembrance Institute. This is an uncomfortable situation for a president who has no direct influence on the head of the law enforcement committee. Therefore, in these categories, only in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and with the Attorney General could I influence the shape of these solutions. I would like to increase the effectiveness of the criminal prosecution commission, because we know that of 22,000 criminal proceedings 375 ended with the filing of indictments to the courts. In my opinion, that's not enough. I'd like this work of the crime investigation committee to be more efficient. But I have some concerns about excluding the National Remembrance Institute's Public Prosecutor's Department, because I'm afraid that investigations, even with regard to the murder of BI. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko or Fr. Blaclinicki, they could end up in the U.S. Attorney General's office next to cases involving a break-in in the basement or the theft of a bike. I mean, this reform of the criminal prosecution committee must be done with full caution and within the framework of the agreement, in understanding the Ministry of Justice and, above all, in the will of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u298	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u299	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, at first, thank you very much for what's going on at Westerplatte, for example. for this reason, an initiative was created in Kielce to commemorate the Kielce Westerplatz people, extremely connected with what was happening at that time, in the first days of September, to make the Kielce people aware, and the young ones, and the older ones, what the soldiers from Kielce Bukówka contributed in 1939. This introduction to my question is not accidental, because it is about restoring consciousness in our society. Surely the Institute of National Remembrance will continue to struggle with what needs to be found somewhere in the ground, in archives, in documents, but it must also keep up with what is happening with the passage of time, because we lose those who remember the times of World War II, what happened after them, the times of fighting communism. We need, apart from what Senator Jan Maria Jackowski was talking about, to fight not only about the historical truth in the world, about the truth about Poland, about its contribution to World War II, about the fact that we won the victory after such difficult, traumatic experiences, but also about Poland's contribution to what happened after World War II. How will you, as president, fight to make that memory alive? It is known that we will be missed someday, and the point is that young Poles will feel this story... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to adjourn in three minutes.]] I'll try to fit in, Mr. Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No. But you haven't asked a question yet?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But still... [[No, no. You've already crossed... I'm not talking about one minute, you've crossed three minutes too. If you have a question, please.]] Let me ask you a question. [[Voice from the room: You broke the bank.]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Mr. President... [[Question mark.]] ...young people need to be brought up to be also Poles, so that the Polish truth about World War II and about the times of communism can be moved on. Do you have any idea of such specific actions? I don't know what space he's in. Maybe it's an Internet space, social media, maybe some other space. In any case, it seems to me that on an equal footing with other important tasks carried out by the IPN it should be a priority, because what will be written or somewhere immortalized in the form of monuments is not enough, it must be in the consciousness of young Poles. Thank you. [[30 million people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u300	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u301	Thank you very much, Senator. Indeed, in my programme of action and in the first answer to the question of Senator Kwiatkowski, I tried to point out that in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance we come to a crucial moment, because in a moment we will not be able to tell witnesses about history, which will be sadly said about it by institutions, exhibitions and modern technologies. I will set up a modern technology office at the Institute of National Remembrance, which will encourage young people to take an interest in history with many modern educational tools. Of course, these modern technologies, too, should be emphasized - they will not complete the entire educational process. Traditional books, traditional meetings with different people, witness relations and notations will remain a very important element of educational activities. But we live in times where the office of modern technologies and modern technology tools, such as augmented reality or virtual reality, are needed to sustain the flame of teaching history for subsequent generations. Thank you. [[Telephone signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u302	Thank you very much. There was a signal that I had to go. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Donald, Donald...]] I have to announce... There are others asking, so that I don't finish, we don't finish the questions today. [[Voice from the room: When will we finish?]] [[Voice from the room: Probably tomorrow.]] Tomorrow. [[Mr. Marshal, before you announce an adjournment, I'm on a formal issue. Okay?]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u303	Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, yesterday at the Seniors' Convention meeting, Mr. Marshal Grodzki made an honorary commitment, he promised that today we will hold a whole debate on agreeing to appoint the President of the IPN and vote. In addition, he committed to sending the documents to the Sejm today so that tomorrow, Marshal Witek could take the oath both from the elected Ombudsman and, hopefully, from the elected President of the IPN. With indignation and regret, Mr. Marshal Grodzki lies again and fails to keep his promises to the public. [[He said it yesterday.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] It's just outrageous... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...like you and me here all the time... [[Mr. Vice-Marshal...]] ...the biggest parliamentary club... [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] [[You're exaggerating. There are rules.]] ...like you just cheat us every time. You suddenly need a meeting of the parliamentary club with Donald Tusk. Before that, the Senate was in charge of Budek, and now the Senate is in charge of Tusk. It's just a scandal. [[Voice from the hall: This is a scandal, a scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Even harder.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u304	I'm asking you harder. [[Voice from the hall: This is a shoe and arrogance.]] Harder. [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Senator Bosacki wants to speak.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, on a formal matter, right? [[But in what mode does he want to speak?]] He made a formal request. [[In what mode? What did he come forward about?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The head of the club...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Don't yell. Okay?]] I would like to correct the very emotional words of my previous speaker. I was at the same meeting of the Senior Convention, where you were also a marshal and Senator Martynowski. There was no promise to put pens in the desktop by your Marshal Blowing. It was just a promise that we'd start doing it today. We've been doing this for two hours. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Most of the questions asked to the Honorable Director were questions from that side of the room. The length of the answer as a live one does not depend on us. I remind you from the PIS senators that yesterday we were dealing with exactly the same situation, i.e. the choice for a high state position. In that case, the ombudsman has already voted in the Sejm. And then the country... [[Oh, no, no, no, no, no.]] ...you asked for a break to meet with Prime Minister Morawiecki, and we are absolutely... [[The voice from the room: It's different.]] What else? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What else? We agreed to that. [[Voice from the room: Today we ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u306	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting this controversy. [[That's what really mattered...]] I'm interrupting. Mr. Senator, Mr. Vice-Marshal... [[You have to stop if someone's lying organically.]] Behave yourself in the Senate. And don't yell. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Anyone else with a formal motion? [[Yes. Please, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Stanisław Gawłowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[But does this concern the matter?]] Yeah, yeah, just. [[No. That's it, Mr. Senator...]] But that's a very important question. I'd like to ask your marshal if the rules on the Senate's approval of the President of the IPN have changed. I'm asking because I just heard from Marshal Pęk's mouth that Marshal Grodzki has already agreed to send the Senate's decision to your Marshal of the Sejm. I assume Mr. Marshal Pop doesn't know what he's saying because the Senate hasn't voted yet. [[Okay, Mr...]] Or maybe he won't give his consent... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Therefore, this type of document cannot be sent. I want to ask if the senate rules on this matter have changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u308	Senator, I'd rather you help me, not disturb me... [[Okay, but...]] ...in a situation where Mr. Vice Marshal seems to be disturbing. Ladies and gentlemen, I know nothing about any promises regarding the message to the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Senate: At the beginning of the Senate meeting...]] [[In determining the order of the sitting...]] [[Plus, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal Grodzki's statement came out that they agreed with you...]] Mr. Senator, I'm not giving you the floor. [[You may not give me the floor, but I'll tell you what it's like. What you and the Senate...]] Messages, please. Messages, please. Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u309	Not yet. Another announcement, if you don't mind. The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the proposals submitted today to the Act amending the Act. The Code of Administrative Procedure will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 8.30 p.m. in room No. 176, 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-senat-27-2.u310	I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. We're going to continue this point. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 55]]
