ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check that all of you have excluded applications for remote participation in the sitting and that your senators participating in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 69 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. This number, as I see it, is increasing every moment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges . and consider it as item twenty-second of the agenda; the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, drawn up in Brussels on 22 November 2004. and consider it as item twenty-third of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Dear Senators, according to yesterday's announcement, we will begin with the review of the item: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 in Botany, and then we will proceed with the examination of the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the current state of health protection. After considering the draft resolution on the state of health care, the Senate will return to the next items in order of agenda, i.e. from point eight: the Act amending the Energy Law. We therefore proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 as the Year of Botany. I would like to welcome the representatives of the Polish Botanical Society, the president of Prof. Anna Mikula... [[Applause]] ... Professor Jan Jarosław Rybczyński... [[Applause]] ...and you, Professor Arkadiusz Nowak, director of the Botanical Garden in Powsina. [[Applause]] At the same time, thank you very much for the beautiful bouquet of flowers that you have given us. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 543, and the report "Print No 543 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear guests! It has been my honor to present before the High House a resolution establishing the year 2022 the Year of Botany. The centenary of the establishment of the Polish Botanic Society is an inspiration for this resolution. In order to highlight the merits of Polish botanists for the world science and to remind you how Polish botanist developed after Poland regained its independence in 1918, the Senate of the Republic of Poland would like to establish the year 2022 as the Year of Botany. Let me give you a few words about the subject of research, interests and people associated with botany. Botany is a basic science, so it pursues cognitive goals. This knowledge takes place through observation of the world of plants and processes taking place in it, as well as through experimentation in both natural and laboratory conditions. The data collected are then used by science in close practice, such as agriculture, forestry, medicine, pharmacology and even cosmetology, which you may be interested in. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I would like to ask you all to concentrate, please.]] The interest in botanism is actually ancient, and the present for Polish botanists begins actually in the interwar period, immediately after regaining independence. The first botanist to make an important discovery for the world was Michał Jeronim hr. Leszczyc-Suminski. Combining botanical and painting passions, he discovered and described as the world's first ferns development cycle. Another botanist, Antoni Rehman, was a pioneer in South Africa's vegetation research. The development of botany in Poland was even more influenced by Edward Strasburger, a teacher of the Warsaw Main School, a world-famous botanist, the creator of the basics of contemporary cytology. Of course, these and other successes of Polish botanists, as well as the need to harmonise research and naming after the period of partitions, resulted in the establishment of the Polish Botanic Society almost immediately after regaining independence. The first founding convention was held in April 1922. The convention took place in the historic lecture hall of the Botany Plant in the Warsaw University Main School building. Warsaw was designated as the headquarters of the general government of the company. It was also decided to establish 5 branches, namely in Krakow, Lviv, Poznań, Warsaw and Vilnius. The Polish Botanic Society is therefore one of the oldest, which clearly demonstrates its importance, role and position in building strong, modern Polish science. It is worth noting that the company has a very rich library, the collection reaches nearly 50,000 copies. The Society organizes many scientific conventions, conferences, scientific workshops, and also addresses the public, to young people, promoting knowledge about our plants. Appreciating the role of society in scientific research, in activities that protect the achievements and history of Polish botany from oblivion, as well as in the dissemination of knowledge about this particular part of nature deserves to be distinguished. The establishment by the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2022 The Year of Botany is the honoring of Polish botanists and their achievements, as well as the appreciation of the civilizational importance of this field of science. We want the Year of Botany to bring even greater recognition in our society for the role of science, especially botany, and its contribution to the development of the economy and the impact on our daily lives. I would also like to remind you how important it is to know everything about the natural world, mostly plants, about the activities of Polish botanists. I found such a statement, a little witty, so popular, one of the famous Polish botanists, Władysław Szafer, who accompanied us until 1970, in which he died. He said, "The most dangerous enemy of nature is human stupidity and thoughtlessness. I will never lay down my weapon and never lay down my pen to save the Polish nature. Protection of the nature of human protection. It is in this maxim that one could include the message that the Year of Botany brings for contemporary citizens, for contemporary young people, the message that knowledge about nature should respect, have in their hearts and protect it properly. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. It is in one person, Professor, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alicia the Hare was the first to sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! The year 2022 will be a special year for the environment of botanists, biologists, to whom I have the privilege of being a member of the Faculty of Natural Sciences in the field of biology in the field of botany at the University of Wrocław. As it happens, in 2022 it will be 50 years since I started studying at the mentioned Alma Mater... [[Applause]] Main celebrations will take place in Warsaw Because I am convinced that the High Chamber will unanimously adopt the resolution proposed by Senator Rotnicka on 28 June at the University of Warsaw under the motto: "We share the love of plants." Today, the Polish Botanic Society is about 1,000 members of 15 regional branches and 15 specialized sections, five outstanding scientific publications, as well as committees and chapters of awards and decorations for outstanding scientific achievements. The coming year 2022 is also an opportunity to recall other important events and anniversaries related to Polish and World Botany. Nearly 90 years have passed since the uprising on the initiative of a prominent botanist, prof. Władysław Szafer, rector of the Jagiellonian University in the years 1936-1938, the first Polish national parks of the Pieniński National Park and the Białowieża National Park in 1932. In 2020 it was 70 years since the first Polish national park in the Świętokrzyskie Mountains was established after World War II, at the initiative of Prof. Szafer. The achievements of the Polish botany have been marked in the history of world science. It has been 125 years since the most outstanding Polish botanists, Prof. Marian Raciborski began his research on the flora of Java, during which in addition to excellent pteridological works, there were extremely useful studies on the parasites of arable crops and ways of combating them. In this way the botanist has once again appeared as a science providing useful knowledge and indicating how it is used for economic purposes. Prof. Marian Raciborski, founder of botanical schools in Cracow and Lviv, almost symbolically raised the botanical garden in Cracow after becoming its director in 1912. A year later, he established the Jagiellonian University Botanical Institute and gave direction to research conducted in the Jagiellonian University. It is worth noting that he also engaged in independence activities, during numerous lectures he popularized knowledge about the beauty and complexity of native and world nature. His great plans for the development of the Polish botany interrupted his premature death in 1917. Today, supported by this example, we attach great importance to the practical use of scientific achievements. In this context, it is worth mentioning that 75 years ago Prof. Aniela Krawiecowa became the head of the Department of Morphology and Plant Systematics of the University of Wrocław and organized for these students the first field botanical practice in Poland. The Renaissance of interest in herbal medicine and the healthy plant food that we are witnessing today leads us to respect for the achievements of civilization, modern medicine and food technology in a kind of time loop, for the everyday use of plants that have been the basis of our ancestors' existence for hundreds of years, and yet for contemporaries they remain in the sphere of unused potential. The extent of the possibility of using the natural natural conditions of Poland resulted in many social initiatives. Among those who most deeply reach to the poorly-developed potential of Poland in this area, it is worth to mention at least one affecting many significant scientific environments and centres. 10 years have passed since the founding meeting of the Polish Association of Herbalists and Phytotherapists, which took place in 2012 at the seat of the State Higher Vocational School. Stanisława Pigonia in Krosno; now it is Karpacka State University in Krosno. The establishment of the Year 2022 of Botany will undoubtedly contribute to the increase of interest in this field of science and its further development, to the dissemination of its achievements, and thus to the wider use of the natural wealth of Poland. Thank you very much. And thank you from this place once again for the initiators of the Year of Botany. Thank you so much for this initiative. I ask the High House to adopt this resolution by acclamation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution, which would only cover the vote. It will be held together with other votes at the end of the meeting. But right now, I invite you to the speaker of Professor Anna Mikula, President of the Polish Botanic Society, for a brief presentation of the event.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Many warm and important words were said today about botany and botany. It was very nice to hear that. In fact, I have nothing left but to ask for a positive vote, probably tomorrow, on the establishment of 2022 as the Year of Botany. It will be a great honor for us, because then we will be able to speak louder about the role of botany, the role of botanical teachings in human life, in the economy, in the country, as well as the benefits and dangers of association with plants. We were moved by the century of the Polish Botanic Society, and in principle its active activities to support botanical teachings and their popularization in society, to apply to you for the adoption of the Year of Botany. The central event will be held on 28 June next year, because at Krakowskie Przedmieście in the campus of the University of Warsaw, where the first founding convention of our company took place 100 years ago. But, of course, I would like to assure you that this will not only be a celebration on June 28th. The celebrations will begin on January 1st. In fact, our botanical projects that we are planning, we have tried to fit into this folder, although it was extremely difficult, it is written with a muffin, these are 2 pages of A4 format. These aren't all the projects we're planning. We think that in our anniversary celebrations and, I hope, the Year of Botany will also include universities, research institutes, botanical gardens, all those who love nature. On this occasion I would also like to say that the Polish Botanic Society is actively active in the scientific field. This is our last venture. The Polish Botanical Society participated in the publication of the book "Ilustrated flora of Tajikistan," documenting one of the hottest places on Earth. This is the development of 15-year research of Polish botanists. They discover many new and important species for science. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for letting me speak. Mr. Marshal, I will pass on the results of our projects, as well as this prelude to the Year of Botany. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please be calm, intuitive and able to sense the moods of the Higher House give me basically the assurance that the Year of Botany will be established. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the current state of health protection. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 561, and the report "Print No 561 S." I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Legislative Committee and the Health Committee. Both committees held a meeting on 23 November and adopted a joint report as well as auto-amendments. I would like to add that the Senate Marshal sent the draft resolution to the Legislative Committee and the Health Committee on 5 November, and, as I said, the committees met on 23 November. Why am I talking about these two dates? Since the resolution is an appeal, it calls for us to pay attention to the state of health protection that it is today. On 5 November, it seemed that the development of the epidemic, the increase in morbidity, would cause the government, the Ministry of Health, to undertake more radical actions and perhaps the appeal would remain merely an appeal. Today, after these three weeks, I must say that it is now a cry for help. Health care is in a crisis, in a total crisis, and the epidemic situation is like a state of war. We are at war, Ladies and gentlemen, we have been fighting two opponents: for almost two years with the virus and with health workers who are currently protesting on the street in the so-called. The white town and they are asking for their rights, they are calling for a solution to the health problems and for a meeting with the Prime Minister, which, unfortunately, has not been the case since September. This appeal we have made is an expression of our concern for the health and life of society, because the epidemic that has affected us is a terrible tragedy. For two years, we haven't been able to deal with it enough so we can say that we've done everything we can to secure society's health and life. An epidemic and infectious diseases are an area of public health. This involves activities that need coordination, require a common organisation and require joint effort from both the rulers and the public. They must be organized, and as for this organization we have the most doubts. A very turbulent debate took place at the joint committee meeting. There were many arguments for and against. I will try to report everything that was at the joint committee meeting and do all the work that should be done to manage the epidemic properly. From the beginning it was known that you needed 3 elements: masks, distance and testing. The next element that came later was vaccinations. And we are convinced that if all these elements were implemented according to medical art, their effect would be much better than it is now. Unfortunately, mostly political decisions prevaild, and actually at the moment it can be said that in recent months even the lack of a decision, the completely passive behaviour of the Ministry of Health, which actually withdrew from any decisions that could protect people and that Poland would not be in this ungrateful place in terms of the number of deaths at which it is at the moment. Because this is the biggest challenge for us that every day our citizens die, they die, although some of them could probably live. They could live if they were aware if they had been vaccinated if they were wearing masks if they had kept their distance. Everything is very simple and clear, but unfortunately the lack of enforcement of these recommendations, the failure to follow these instructions has caused a wave of infections to rise every day, and, unfortunately, the worst of all, deaths. When neighbouring countries are observed, it is clear that where the level of implantation is high, there is also a small number of deaths. Because that's the law of the epidemic. If we use prevention, which is vaccination, and we instill society in a high percentage, then we achieve the so-called. population immunity. And that's the whole art of prevention, so that the number of people vaccinated reaches 80%. And more. Otherwise, the virus mutates, changes and attacks us all the time. Therefore, the management of the vaccination programme is extremely important, responsible and should therefore be carried out according to medical art, with scientific knowledge. If the public is not convinced, the promotion of vaccination has not worked properly, then it is important to consider what to do and what tools to use to increase the level of vaccination. Nobody's talking about coercion, that's not true. It's a foreign word in medicine. We're talking about duty. It's about duty. And in order for vaccination to be in society, society must also be aware of that, it must know why it is to be vaccinated. Very often I meet with opinions of doubting people... As much as 61%, according to the polls, these are people who are unconvinced, who doubt. If we were to make them aware, if we were to force them more, if the authorities were to move, if we were to operate with a simple medical message, if we were to run various kinds of promotional campaigns, much wider, then there would be a chance that of these 61% A lot of them would have been vaccinated. Another problem during the entire management of the epidemic was testing. We also talked about this many times and said that testing only people with symptoms is not enough that we need to increase the number of tests. What happened at the moment? We actually do not know exactly how many tests are performed and how they are analysed. Where is the health centre with its role, where is the State Sanitary Inspection? Where are these ways of the regime, how is it going, what is the course of the viral mutation? We don't know all that. We know from the daily messages only that the day of this and this has been infected by such, and not by any other number of people, that such a number of people have died. I don't know about you, but I can't listen to this message, a dry message about the number of deaths, because for me it's not a number, for me they're sick, for me they're people, our friends, our neighbors, maybe family. The death of each of these people is a great tragedy. And since this number is increasing, since the number of infections We're growing, I don't understand what we're waiting for, what decisions we're waiting for. And here I come to an important point. The activities of the Medical Council. This subject was also discussed at the meeting. And what does it turn out to be? The Medical Council says it gives recommendations, but not all are implemented. The Minister says that they are being implemented, that what the Council will adopt is being implemented. You know, the truth is in the middle. Well, the situation is actually in such a way that what the Council will adopt and what is important at a given time, and what is important for the Minister to implement it, appears in writing and is implemented. However, what is less convenient, although recommended by the Medical Council, does not appear in writing. It doesn't even appear in the form of a note. However, it is recommended and is requested by members of the Medical Council. Well, don't be surprised that the minister will say, of course, what was written as a recommendation, I did. Only not all recommendations and not all recommendations that are discussed at the meetings of the Medical Council are written down. Another thing is the promises made by the Ministry of Health. Remember the compensation fund? This compensation fund was a government project. He went to the Marshal's staff in the Seym, I think he even had one installment on the Health Committee. So what happened to him? Why aren't we investigating him? Just because we're afraid of the anti-vaccine movement and talking about the risks of vaccination? After all, this fund was supposed to be one of the elements of support and protection, and it was created for those doubting, those who have the right to have doubts. You didn't make it happen. Later, there were various other ideas to help implement and enforce all these tightenings, all those proposals that were dealt with by the Medical Council. Among other things, there was an idea to implement the so-called. Covid passport, well-known concept, functioning across Europe, no one has a problem with that. When we drive around Europe, everywhere, going into a restaurant, into a store, we show our passport. No one has a problem there that exposes himself to whether or not he's vaccinated, there's no doubt that he's in some sort of sanitary segregation, just showing and entering. The same proposal was also made in our country to show such a covid passport when we enter different public institutions. Why can't we implement this? What are we afraid of? That we're gonna protect those who are vaccinated, but also those who can't get vaccinated for different reasons? Because remember, the vaccination is once again the way to collective immunity. We're going to be vaccinated to protect ourselves from the severe course of the disease, but the more people get vaccinated, the bigger the population graft, the greater the chance we're going to win the virus. Isn't that really worth the effort? Another point that the Minister also referred to is support for employers. It was supposed to be possible for employers to check their employees so that they could somehow remodel their work, remove people at risk, e.g. in trade or in schools. Why doesn't he agree to that? Why do we not proceed with this very simple provision, which even by means of a regulation can be introduced? The Minister has only recently spoken about the fact that it is not time yet, that the worst black hour has not yet come, that he will make any decision only after it has arrived. The question is whether this period of hesitation, this period of powerlessness, which continues at this moment and will end at the moment of this darkest hour, does not cause some people to die. Is there really no reflection on the fact that these are specific individuals? Recently I also hear that it is time to talk to the opposition that we should join together, make joint proposals and proposals. I think it's time for political talks, some divisives, what to do was six months ago. A concrete, refined, discussed strategy should now be implemented. The time when the appeal was made, when the public was being addressed, was over. We're really in a crisis situation. What is at the moment you notice, what is happening in hospitals again is simply our next failure in health care. So what if covid beds arrive? Yes, he will, but of course, at the expense of other patients. Staff numbers will not increase suddenly twice. These hospitals, these branches, which will be turned into covid units, will protect infected patients. But what about the others? After all, you know what happened after the third wave, what was the increase in deaths. In addition to the deaths of COVID there were deaths due to cancer, heart attacks or other disasters that have happened to our compatriots who have simply not been diagnosed or reached hospitals too late. And the same thing, exactly the same thing, we're cooking them right now. If the Minister of Health says that he will make a decision at a time when there will be no covid beds, then we, Ladies and Gentlemen, cannot agree to that, we really cannot. And I appeal to you as senators, as people with a mandate, with great support in your regions. I ask you to accept this appeal, because this is an appeal based on concern for the health and life of society. I call on all of us to act together and help society make difficult decisions. We're aware, we're responsible. Yeah, that's also our responsibility. The Health Committee also discussed issues not necessarily related to the epidemic process itself or to the problems of health professionals. The Minister has provided me with very good documents, materials that I would like to pass on to you right now. It was also said by the Minister about how well it is in health care, how many new workers we have in the system at the moment, how the number of students doubled, how the amount of funding in the system has increased. Well, Minister, thank you very much for these materials, because they made me realize what I didn't even know it was us, it was our crew during the Platform that caused the number of medical personnel to increase. You clearly write here: in the academic year 2015/2016 there was an increase in the number of places for stationary and permanent studies, for stationary studies in Polish, etc., etc. The increase occurred e.g. in the academic year 2015/2016 and this was the increase in the number of places Previously there were 5,000 400 by 1 thousand 890. Minister, why do you think this growth has taken place? Didn't new courses and new schools have been opened before, in which students could learn? It's only after these moves that you've had many years to increase the number of human resources. Thank you very much for this material, which I can present here. And the second material is about the increase in health expenditure. Of course, there's an increase because there's an increase in the contribution. The economy has been well in recent years and the proceeds from the National Health Fund contributions have indeed increased. But the question is: how did this money translate into reality, into health indicators? They all fell, including the length of their lives. How did they translate into queues, for the availability of specialists, and for the debt of hospitals that are constantly increasing? In addition, add an increase in costs, because everything is more expensive, including medicines, with energy, also with remuneration, and modern procedures, which are common in medicine, increase these costs every year. So we can put a lot of money in, and the question is, what is the effect... [[Timer signal]] I'm almost done. To conclude, once again, I am appealing to the High House, asking: let us not be indifferent. Let's react to that. Let us pay attention to the health minister so that he is also courageous and starts making decisions that are recommended to him by doctors, experts who know how to manage the epidemic and do so in good faith. Let's not be indifferent. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, when the government introduced restrictions a year and a half ago, you talked about human rights violations, civil liberties violations. Now you're asking for decisions to limit the spread of Coronavirus. I would like to ask, because in this political country there is a lack of concreteities, which exactly are the sharpenings you want, which areas of the economy you want to exclude. What exactly do you want when it comes to sharpening?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u12	Mr. Senator, no one said anything like you said at the beginning, that there was some kind of sharpening that we disagreed with. That's not true. And what do we demand? The implementation of the postulates of the Medical Council, the management of the epidemic according to medical art, everything recommended by the Medical Council, we want the government to implement it. For a long time, the Medical Council has been saying for months that it is important to ensure greater safety for those who are vaccinated, to protect them, because they were taking this vaccine for something. Therefore, the covid passport I am talking about is required to keep the distance, wear masks. Why aren't you able to enforce the masks? I mean, in galleries, in shops, at a game, everywhere... Have you seen people wear masks anywhere? This morning, Mr. Professor. Horban said it was society's fault. No, it is not the fault of society, because society has a top-down example and depending on what restrictions are, how you enforce your guidelines, how you behave. It's not the fault of the medics, as I heard last time, because the doctors both wear masks and talk about it with their patients. This is a matter of law enforcement, just like any other one, which unfortunately Poles can bypass, they can deceive, and in this case they harm themselves. And enforcement, enforcement of these recommendations is on the government's side. This is the organisation and management of the epidemic. Distance. At the moment, it is said that all mass meetings, events should be limited. Are they restricted, Senator? They're not. And this is also a matter of law enforcement. If it's allowed, the situation is getting out of hand. That's why, in order to encourage people in some way... We want to encourage vaccination, not punishment, not coercion, although I hear here that we are proposing to force vaccination. No, we're offering incentives. But in order to encourage these people, you also have to give them an argument... [[Timer signal]] Now that I'm inoculated, I'm safe, so I can go to the movies, the gallery, the church. It's safe. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the senator about this case. We are dealing with such a situation that in some countries around the world, e.g. Even vaccination is already introduced in Israel and the United States, especially the United States. In other countries, I mean Europe in particular, there is, as it were, no direct compulsion of vaccination: coercion, a legal standard versus criminal sanctions, but different solutions are being taken, such as. Italy, which, by the way, have more than 82% vaccinated people, and yet they introduce them, also in Austria, Germany, etc., not only restrictions, lockdowns, local, local, regional or national, because that's probably what no one would want in Poland as well, but restrictions on functioning in public life... [[Timer signal]] ...in the public sphere of uninsected people, and contrario privileges, let's call it, for those who are vaccinated. Is there any justification that this can be introduced in most European countries, and in Poland the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, does not introduce this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. You've crossed the time limit for 28 seconds. Because yesterday we introduced this institution of time measurement, I have been liberal about it for now, although we already hear the signal, but any moment now I will really be restrictive of that time, and the other Vice-Marshals too, warned. That's why I'm reminding you. Sorry, Senator, you have 3 minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u16	Mr. Senator, it's a good question why everyone around us is introducing more restrictions. In caring for the health and life of their citizens, they sometimes go even to very brave decisions, such as: it is about the obligation to immunize and we as the only country are still waiting. For me, this is a completely incomprehensible and unexplained situation. Because we could wait if there was only an increase in infection, people would get sick, they would get better. Yeah, then maybe you can still wait with the restrictions. But we die, and every day 300 and 500 people die. It's like every day she disappears from a map, like I said, a village or a neighborhood. It's just a big tragedy. That's why I don't get it. Since scientists, doctors, experts in all countries recommend such recommendations and they are implemented with good results, yet in these countries people do not die. Well, ladies and gentlemen, people don't die there. And we're waiting, I don't know what we're waiting for. The Minister says, as I said, that as long as the beds are free, he will not decide that he is examining the moods that he is wondering. Well, I think the Minister of Health isn't really from a mood study, but from saving people's lives, especially at the time of the epidemic. It's the role of the Minister of Health, and that's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, while continuing this discussion, I would like to ask whether at this meeting of the Health Committee I was on it, but maybe I missed the Minister's declaration on what number of deaths and on what number of relapses COVID-19 will make specific decisions. Was there a deadline, a date when we would take steps like other countries to reduce the number of deaths? Because she's measurable, and this is our big failure to manage the pandemic for almost two years. Was there a specific date? Were there any numbers of deaths per population? Has the Minister given such assurance that they will then introduce these restrictions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u19	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u20	Not at the Health Committee meeting, as I recall, but I remember Minister Niedzielski declaring that if there were 1,000 infections a day, the restrictions would be increased. There are over 30,000 infections at the moment and still no response. Hence this appeal, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like... you're gonna accuse us of attacking the government by saying he's not doing anything. No, we're attacking this way that we're talking about him doing it too slowly that he's a few months late. And these few months are concrete compatible and concrete misfortunes. After all, the idea is not to treat and to have miraculous medications for Coronavirus, but to prevent these people from getting sick as soon as possible. Because you know perfectly well that even if they recover and come home, how many complications are there, how often they suffer for many months from various additional complications. And this also translates into the economy. And no one's talking here, Mr. Senator... I'll get back to your question about closing, about lockdowns. No. We're talking about protecting society as much as possible. And by the way, while I'm at the vote, I'm going to say that what's happening right now with false certificates is another challenge for the Minister of Health. I'm curious how the minister reacted to the information that was officially given about the counterfeiting of documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u22	Thank you very much. I'm just pointing out that the clock works once and it doesn't work once. It would be good for him to work all the time. One minute ago, there was only one minute, and nothing was moving. Dear Senator, first of all, thank you for taking the initiative and preparing this resolution. I would like to ask you right now if you've talked about what the citizens are asking. Most people are asking me at the moment how it is that at a time when the number of diseases was close to the present or even smaller, the forests were closed, people were caught sitting in the park, who took off the masks, and now, at the fourth wave, the government is not prepared and does not take any action, as if completely suspended the fight against the pandemic on the stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u24	Thank you very much. Senator, thank you very much for the presence of the Minister. He's here, and he was also at our committee meeting. I think the Minister's presence is mainly due to the fact that there are two threads in the appeal we made in the resolution. The first is linked to the epidemic and to the state of danger of society. The second thread is the issue of protest of all medical professions and lack of solutions, the lack of closure of the protest committee. The Minister was a negotiator, hence probably his presence here. I am very sorry that for one and a half years of fighting the epidemic, for one and a half years of meetings at the Health Committee meetings... There were certainly a few meetings, and there were also two sittings in the plenary room... The Health Commission is still looking very closely at how the epidemic is developing, what are the possibilities to fight the epidemic in the world, in good faith asks for reports, the mutations of the virus. Unfortunately, she never once met with the Minister of Health. At yesterday's final meeting with Marshal Witek, the Minister of Health did not honor us with his presence either. I think that's meaningful enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The resolution consists of two paragraphs. In the second paragraph we read: The Senate of the Republic of Poland is concerned about the passiveness of the government. It's a statement. And what's he pleading for? It calls for urgent action to be taken, calls for the necessary decisions to be taken. Could you give us some details here, please? [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I talk about concrete all the time, Mr. Senator.]] No, you're wrong. Please specify in the points. I've been trying to listen to you all along. Contacts. Please tell me you're saying that the Senate is calling for both. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Senator...]] The point is that those who listen to us can hear what you want, except that you're whining, that it's bad, and so on. What exactly do you want? That's the first line. [[Timer signal]] Second line. The first subparagraph states that one of the reasons is the poor condition of the staff in the sense that there is an inadequate amount of staff, that there is not enough staff. [[Voice from the room: What do you want?]] [[Voice from the room: Simple. Time's up!]] [[Voice from the room: Mask, Mr. Senator.]] How can one explain such a thought that in quotes Your actions have resulted in an increase in places in medical studies? We are talking about limits, by 50%, about the comparison of this year to 2015. You're the ones who've been working these past few years? Are you sure?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u27	Mr. Senator, first of all, don't talk to me like that, because I'm not a Senator, I'm just a friend of yours from the Senate. [[Applause]] In the Senate, we respect each other. I really have respect for the senator and I say Mr. Senator. That's one thing. [[I address those who are the authors of the resolution.]] But you can say "senators," not "senators." [[Voice from the room: you senators.]] Let us respect ourselves in this House... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and I'm very appealing for that. [[But there's nothing to teach...]] That's one thing. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.]] You're asking me what we're calling for. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The most important thing we want is for the government to start following the recommendations of the Medical Council, because that's why he called it. The Medical Council has been saying for several months since September that the epidemic wave has been increasing, that it is therefore necessary to introduce tightenings and more enforcement of the distance, wearing masks that you are not currently wearing. and vaccinations. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And in these three areas, everything that the government and the Minister of Health should do should be enforced. If the Minister of Health says he's got some proposals, he's just waiting for the black hour, then my point is, let him implement it now, not wait for another person to die. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, I have a question for you. Today we are discussing a resolution on the current state of the health system. Perhaps in a few years we will have to go back to that and discuss it again. Can Madam President, as Chairman of the Health Committee, tell us what the government's plans are for health services in general? What is the government planning in the coming years, according to the president's knowledge? How is this health care going to improve? What is planned, what actions of the government, which e.g. They're gonna protect us from another epidemic? Are such plans revealed or not? I'm just interested in what the government is planning to improve health protection. What is your knowledge of this, and what is your attitude towards possible ideas? [[Timer signal]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u30	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u31	Used to be a good habit, at least in health committees. And, as you know, I've been a parliamentarian for many years. It was possible to meet the Minister of Health with the Health Committee, on which a plan was presented, from which the Minister could be settled later. I had the last such conversations and such meetings with Minister Szumowski. Since then, no health minister has come to the Health Committee and presented any proposals and strategies. But, of course, as chairman of the Health Committee, I read various kinds of legislation, proposals for solutions, Polish Load, Healthy Future... I'm going through all of this, and I'm watching closely, which is just fiction on paper, and what's forged in the bill. At this point, as you know, Mr. Senator, when it comes to laws that would help solve problems in health care... well, I don't recall any recent proceedings, except for those ad hoc ones that are related to the COVID epidemic, and those laws that actually gave the Ministry of Health and not only the Ministry, but also many others, the authority to take a lot of action on the basis of regulations. These are ad hoc actions, and health management requires a strategy, requires a short- and long-term strategy. I'm sure you're reading these projects, too, and you've heard of different solutions. The hospital agency was to be set up, a quality law was to be set up, different solutions were to be created. And even surprisingly, I have recently seen such a programme of a healthy future in which these elements have disappeared, so I do not know if they have been withdrawn, or if I just didn't see them, or maybe they are written somewhere else. Everything is implemented rather through ad hoc projects, through various types of funds that are to implement strategies, such as. The Medical Fund, which, as you know, has a budget of 6 billion, and for one and a half years only 177 million have been implemented. This shows the most how the Ministry of Health is involved in rebuilding the entire system. There's a lot to talk about. There was supposed to be a revised refund bill, there were many, many proposals and none of them appeared on the table.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u33	Thank you very much. Senator, I'm not on the Health Committee, which is why I have to ask. We are the only country in Europe that spent less on health protection in 2020 than in the previous year. We are at the last place in Europe in terms of health expenditure on GDP. It's appalling, it's in a pandemic. I remind you that the Civic Platform has submitted applications that the senators have rejected, so that I am not surprised at all that they will reject this resolution as well. But I'd like to ask if these matters were raised. Did the rulers explain why the spending on health care is so low at such a difficult time, and why did we reduce this expenditure in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u34	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u35	Thank you very much. Senator, we have not discussed this issue, because these data are the latest Eurostat data. This is indeed appalling. If Poland has indeed reduced the amount of resources spent on health protection, it is really inexplicable to me. In the coming weeks, we will be dealing with the budget, we will also look at the budget in part, and we will certainly ask such questions, as well as questions about spending funds in different funds that are targeted funds. This will be one of the most important issues that will be discussed by our committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question for you. The State in this resolution requests compliance with COVID-19 with the recommendations of the Medical Council at the premiere. In response to my statements, I learned that the Council's meetings are not recorded and there are no documents or transcripts from the Council's meetings. How can you decide the fate of tens of millions of people and the fate of the state based on the functioning of the council, whose function, as Professor Fisiak himself said this morning in Onet, is purely advisory and her opinions are once heard, once not listened to? So how do you imagine that? Would there be a bill that would determine how this board operates and the procedure for implementing these recommendations? What's that supposed to look like? About the council... [[Timer signal]] ...I have, of course, an opinion that I will express in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u39	Thank you very much. Well, it's not my job to determine how the Medical Council is going to work. If the Medical Council was set up at the premiere, then the Prime Minister, possibly with his officials, should describe the scope of this Medical Council. I can only say, because of my management experience, and also the ministerial experience, that I cannot imagine that the meetings of the advisory board are not completed by protocol. I believe that there should be such protocols from each meeting and after each meeting there should be a list of what has been achieved by the government and what has not been completed. And since I'm at the voice, I'm going to say that, as you know, I'm a public health specialist. The epidemic is a public health challenge, absolutely, so I am interested in this topic in a special way. I am interested in how these issues are resolved in other countries. And nowhere in any country is there such a situation that there is no decisive word of an expert. Either it's one of the appointed people at the ministry who's responsible for managing the entire epidemic, or it's the whole game, but it's all expert and medical environments. Ladies and gentlemen, we must believe in science and knowledge. We cannot say that we will make political decisions without knowing it. I don't think any of you are gonna sign off on something like that, am I? And that's why... I have recently had the pleasure of meeting with the person who manages the epidemic in Denmark. This is a gynecologist, but also with management experience, which has at its disposal a whole group of experts, epidemiology. And on the basis of all of this, they model the entire course of the epidemic, and their decisions are implemented by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u41	Senator, I have a question. You've been taking care of health care for a long time. Who is responsible for the health safety of Poles? This question refers to the discussion about the absence of doctors in our market. And here's the information for Senator Czerwinski and his colleagues on the left... [[Talking in the O.R.]] On my left. I would like to inform you that in 2015 at the University of Zielona Góra Because of the determination of the local government, the medical department was established. This year, 60 doctors have left the university walls, and 517 future doctors are studying. It was the government and its determination that, in cooperation with the government... Because today is such a shift, and we should work together, not fight, say no, we should share. It was thanks to the cooperation of the local government with the government, but thanks to the determination of the local government, the medical department was established. Who's responsible for the number of doctors... [[Timer signal]] ...in the medical market in Poland? I will recall the example of Lubuskie voivodship once again. These doctors passed the best exams in Poland. It is thanks to the determination of the local government that doctors from the University of Zielona Góra reach the medical market in the country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u42	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. I was talking about the increase in the number of students caused by the fact that they were established in 2014 or 2015 new institutions, among others. Zielona Góra, Kielce, Lublin, if I remember correctly And they're the only ones who've delivered this new staff. Who's answering? Well, we have a Ministry of Science, which is leading when it comes to education at universities at all, but of course there is also a Minister of Health who should analyze his staff, needs, should adapt specialisations and the whole learning process to the needs of society, because it is not just a matter of graduation. This is the first moment, but the doctor is actually educated in the so-called. post-graduate system, specializes. And the number of specialists in a given field is determined... Of course, needs are analysed by national consultants, but ultimately this is the decision of the Minister of Health, which increases the number of residents in the given directions. This is very important because we lack specialists in many areas. This is not the time to assess all the reasons that are taking place, but one of the reasons is the lack of a real regional policy that would indicate what needs are in a given region. And the regions vary because there are more cancers in one region, and there are more cardiovascular or other diseases in another region. Depending on regional needs, training of individual staff should also be developed. But of course this is the role of the Minister of Health working in cooperation with the Minister of Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, as it turns out, I'll plead the official response of the Ministry of Health. A shocking increase in the number of deaths in Polish SORs? In 2015, there were 6 000 of them, in 2019, even before the epidemic of 10 000, i.e. as much as 4 000 more, in 2020 15 000. In five years, there's been an increase from 6,000 to 15,000 deaths. Second line. What results from the liquidation of hospital facilities? In 2015, when the Platform gave power, we had 223,000 seats. This is the official data of the Minister of Health. In 2021, these places were 207 thousand. This is a loss of 16,000 places in hospitals. It's like dozens of county hospitals disappeared in Poland. And a question about diagnostics, very important during the epidemic. This first and second wave surprised the government, which unfortunately did not prepare the diagnostics properly. The number of mammography decreased between 2019 and 2020 by 19 thousand, coronarography By 5,000, the gastroscopy by 21 thousand, the colonoscopy That's 15 grand. We know what the effect will be when it comes to the health and life of Poles. Did the fourth wave government secure the diagnostics? To your knowledge, did he learn from what was?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u46	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u47	The increase in the number of deaths in the third wave of the epidemic was a consequence of 2 accidents: the lack of vaccination and the large number of deaths associated with COVID, over 70,000 deaths. As well as the excessive number of deaths caused by other diseases. Patients with the so-called "sickness" chronic diseases, which should be previously diagnosed, always have a chance to be saved. However, if patients go to hospital in the third stage, fourth stage of cancer or with symptoms of untreated hypertension for a long period of time It always ends badly, in the form of heart attacks, strokes, etc. Unfortunately, the number of deaths is also increasing. We were hoping that in the fourth wave, the number of deaths would be reduced by vaccination. Vaccinations are preventive and preventative actions, but in order to be effective, as I said before, at least 80 and 85% must be vaccinated. population. Please note that in Malta, which gave birth to more than 90% Your citizens, there are no deaths. That proves how important the vaccination component is. And, of course, access to diagnostics has been significantly reduced. Hospital staff are limited. If these people are shifted to the so-called. covid troops and only care about the treatment of people with COVID, with the coronavirus, so unfortunately there is a shortage of staff who could treat other diseases. And it's drama, it's drama. We have covid beds, we move staff, we make temporary hospitals and we treat patients with coronavirus, but we forget that there are also other patients who require early diagnosis and rapid treatment. And that's the drama we're dealing with in the fourth wave. After all, we were hoping that through a well implemented vaccination programme, we would lead to the implantation of society and the number of sick people and those who are leaving would be much smaller, and thus we would not have to create these extra beds or involve staff in covid wards. We were hoping that the doctors would be able to do their medical, medical duties as they were before. Well, unfortunately, it didn't work out. Why? That's because the strategy hasn't been prepared. Maybe there is, I don't know, maybe there's a strategy in the drawer somewhere. Even though there were mathematical models showing how this growth could happen... Well, like in the war: if there's a battle, then, in my opinion, there's a strategy. Well, you have your soldiers, you have your medical staff who's trained, trained, armed with equipment and he's going according to the guidelines for this fight. He's the only one who has to have the right opportunity to act. And here we have, ladies and gentlemen, a repeat of last year. Well, unfortunately, if this implantation doesn't happen in the right percentage, we'll also have the fifth wave and maybe the sixth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u49	Senator, the resolution is an aggressive political attack, but in substance it goes to one thing: to increase the burden on citizens in relation to the pandemic, which some citizens will take as anti-constitutional, discriminatory practices. In response to this kind of action in other countries there were protests with riots, with police shooting demonstrators. Do you have any research that indicates that Poles will not react like this? Do you assume that's not how they're gonna react? Well, because I don't think you want to cause a riot like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u50	Mr. Senator, from my messages. I've read a lot of polls. It appears that more than 61% of the population is in favour, however, of tightening up all these restrictions. The people that are definitely against are only 10%. But I don't want to talk about restrictions in any sense of coercion. [[The voice from the hall: 10% on the streets is a lot.]] Mr. Senator, but 10%. It's still less than the other 90%. [[Voice from the room: Better die, right?]] That's still less. Of course, no one wants to have protests, and neither do I sign under aggression or under any duress. But you're a doctor, too, Doctor, and you know you have to protect those people who have vaccinated themselves who wear masks that work remotely to protect themselves, their loved ones, their family. Then let's help them do it. And let's encourage the others. We lacked this, Mr. Senator, really, such education, such educational transmission to these people, talks with them. Because these people have a right to ask, they have a right to doubt. But I personally, if you ask my opinion. I would have chosen these protests 10%. on the street to protect 90%.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, knowing your inquisitiveness as the rapporteur's senator in such a difficult situation as is currently in our country, I ask: have you had any contact with this committee, the Medical Council at the premiere? Because there's news in the country in all the media that there's a gap between the people who know about it and the decision makers who run our country. My question is, have you had any contact with those who have an opinion, as I say, of professionals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u54	Yes, of course, I had contact. Since I am not an epidemiologist, I am not a physician of infectious diseases, I listen to people who are specialists in the field. I talk, I listen to the virusologists, I listen to the message all the time, which is from the medical world, and on the basis of that I also make my own opinion. But in addition to that, there were people from the Medical Council who were invited to the Health Committee meeting, as well as... my word slipped away... Oh, and in our advisory team, which we have at the Health Committee, which is the official advisory team of the Health Committee, one of the members is also on the Medical Council. I have spoken, and I have heard many times from people who are members of the Medical Council that talks and meetings, as I have already told the senator here, are not recorded. These are suggestions, recommendations that are being made during discussions, debates during the sitting, but the final sentence, I think, belongs to the president, who is one of the recommendations, one of the conclusions is turning to the fact that is being implemented, and the other elements unfortunately do not have cause power.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u56	Thank you very much. I confirm what the senator said. I quote the answer to my statement: "Meetings of the Medical Council are not recorded. The provision on its creation does not provide for such an obligation. In my opinion, it is a mistake that there is no such obligation, but that is what I will talk about in the debate. My question is: do you not think that this second request should be deleted, that the government is called upon to make the necessary decisions, in a resolution, taking into account the recommendations of the Medical Council? Because the government will always say that it takes them into account to the extent that it does not take them into account. Shouldn't it be replaced by the wording that this is the statutory mandate of the COVID Medical Council in front of the President of the Council of Ministers? Because then there would be certain procedures that would determine what the role of this counsel is and what the rank of decisions it makes. In my opinion, this is a shortage of this... This is too publicistic, which is why I wonder if I will make an amendment in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u58	Mr. Senator, I think you touched the point. This is the answer to how strongly the Prime Minister wants such advice. If he wants to have only as an advisory body with which he does not bind and treats him like this, then he has as it is at the moment that there is a called council, there are minutes of meetings, he chooses what he wants. If the Prime Minister wants to have a strong basis for making his decisions and reacts, he enforces what the Medical Council proposes, then such meetings should be recorded and, I suspect, concluded with recommendations. You can also set up such a team... I don't know how. It's happening. Honestly, I wasn't looking into it, whether it was the decision of the Council of Ministers, or whether such a team could only be called by the Prime Minister, and I didn't get so deep into it. I think this is absolutely the decision and position of the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u60	Thank you very much. I have a short question, and I'm asking for a short answer. Has the vice-president for security affairs appeared at a meeting of the Senate Health Committee at least once since the start of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u61	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u62	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. as a lover of strategic actions and the resulting tactical and operational actions short- and long-term... Although, in part, Senator Wojciech Necessary has already asked this question... Answer me that question. Mrs. Senator, at the Health Committee meeting, since the start of this pandemic, which is probably from March 4th... Yes? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: From March 4th.]] Since 4 March 2020, a government representative has presented any long-term and short-term strategies for the fight against pandemics in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u64	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. The Health Committee met at an epidemic committee meeting on 4 February. At that time, as doctors in the Health Committee, we felt that something was wrong. I don't want to remind you any more of those horrible parables that we heard here about what to do and that we shouldn't bother at all. I do not hide that the first months were very difficult for everyone, for the medical community as well as for the managers, precisely because the epidemic was a great unknown. It was. And it's on. A great challenge. Except it's been a year and a half since then. It was time for me to talk about the summer months, when it was a bit lighter. Sit down and think about the strategy to fight the virus, and think about how to build a system, how to help this health system to secure other patients as well. Unfortunately, no one came up with such a proposal, no one talked to us about it, and all the committee meetings... These meetings were several, we analysed the different stages. Unfortunately, it was very often that when we asked for epidemiology data or reports... Well, unfortunately, I haven't seen that kind of data so far, and I'd really like to see it. I will also appeal to the Minister here, because maybe there are reports that show how many tests have been carried out, how many tests have been carried out, how all these genomes have been studied, how there has been a mutation, what lessons have been learned from this. These are really very important issues that should be the basis for the preparation of the strategy, including for the coming years. I don't want to scare you here because that's not my role. I have come here in good faith, in the interests of the health of society, and I address this appeal, but unfortunately it seems that we will not deal with this epidemic so quickly that it will remain with us for some time. That's the climate around us. I'm talking about the environment. It's changing, it's also causing changes in disease, in the mutation of different viruses. And they will remain with us. This is what doctors of infectious diseases are talking about, who also call for attention to be paid to this area, which has been somewhat forgotten over recent years. It's normal, there were no such epidemics, no such phenomena, but we need to be prepared that such situations will also occur in the following years. This, of course, involves not only training a sufficient number of doctors, but also training, equipment, departments, which should be equipped with appropriate medical equipment. That's all I'm gonna say, war strategy, if you can use that kind of comparison. Yes, we must get used to it, we must have a strategy for many years, we must also act in accordance with medical arts and public health principles, we must educate society. Winning with various epidemics and catastrophic health events absolutely requires the involvement of society, and our society, ladies and gentlemen, is not educated in this area. We keep pushing the issue of health education on the agenda as something completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u66	Senator Beat Małecka-Libera ended her response with this not very optimistic accent. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Can I have one sentence?]] [[Can I ask you one more question?]] You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal. Of course, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u67	Thank you. I thought there were other questions. Madam President, I would just like to ask one brief question. Are you familiar with the GUS data for the previous year, the public expenditure figures for health care? I will only quote one sentence: public current health expenditure amounted to PLN 121.5 billion in 2020 and was PLN 15.4 billion higher than in 2019 and their share of GDP was 5.2%, i.e. 0.6% more than in the previous year. Are you familiar with this data? How do they relate to these statements that public spending on health care in the year 2020 was less than in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u69	Senator, I said this report... I repeated these results after Eurostat. These are Eurostat's results, that the expenditures were smaller. I also said that the committee had not yet met on this issue, because it is a completely fresh matter. But since we're going to be talking about the budget soon, I'm sure we're going to talk about it too. I think there's two different things here. Namely, the measures that were related to COVID have led to an increase in resources for the fight against COVID, but Eurostat data, I do not have any other data. It is directly and clearly clear that these measures have fallen one year to one year. I'm sure we'll be looking into it, and there'll be a discussion on it in the Health Committee. But there's something else that's worse, Senator. The problem is not even in the amount of these measures, whether they have increased or were at the same level, but in the fact that all health indicators have been falling to us over the last years. And it's a drama.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I am just at the end, Mr. Marshal, I will say...]] But this isn't the end, Senator, because Senator Czarnobaj has asked you a question. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Ah, sorry. I thought... sorry, I thought it was over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Your Marshal Blanket inspired me to ask questions about health care. Senator, are you familiar with hospital debt data and how debt has grown in recent years? Have the queues extended or shortened? And where in Europe and the world are we when it comes to mortality, especially in the COVID period? I'm asking because it's gonna correspond well... There's been an increase, so I understand that we have fantastic effects as well. I'd ask the senator to confirm my thinking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u73	Mr. Senator, I don't want to say out of my mind where we are when it comes to queues and availability. All I know is that they've gone a lot longer. With regard to mortality or life expectancy, we unfortunately have a delay of at least 2 months over the last few years. The issue of cancer mortality has deteriorated, as well as the number of cardiovascular diseases has increased significantly. And as for the deaths on COVID, according to the last data I've read, we're in fifth place since the end when it comes to the number of deaths. I don't want to say it's a ranking because it's not a ranking. It's a tragedy that we're in an ungrateful fifth place from the end in terms of deaths: we have 46 deaths per million inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. Because there aren't any more people who want to ask questions... Oh, there's a call. You're welcome, Senator. Senator Frost, please. [[You've been crossed out, Mr. Senator.]] [[No, not yet.]] You're welcome, Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u75	Madam President, I have this question, maybe naive, or maybe... Because I listened to this debate remotely, and I also read the draft resolution. And now I have this question... Because, of course, you're trying to introduce yourself as a person who cares about health care in substance, and from the answers to many senators' questions, it turns out that you don't have the knowledge, except for the general knowledge of the situation of health services, which comes from the media. And my question is: why, apart from politics, is this draft resolution supposed to be used? From such resolutions there will be no improvement in health care, no fewer people will die, no fewer people will suffer from COVID, cancer, anything else. Nothing, except that you play a difficult situation that is in health care all over the world, because the whole world is struggling with COVID. It's just doing politics. And I think that's the last thing to do in a COVID fight, that you're trying to use it politically... [[Timer signal]] [[Voice from the room: Time is up. That's it.]] This resolution serves only politics, in my opinion. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] So what's the resolution for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll say it again: please calm down. All the senators were out of time... [[Voice from the room: Almost...]] Almost everyone, I'm sorry, honestly speaking, not everyone. Your marshal didn't cross, Senator Blackbay. He didn't cross either. Some senators outnumber him. It's the computer that decides when the speaker starts buzzing. The computer doesn't ask what party the Senator is speaking from, who's out of time. And I will once again explain to you that because we are at the beginning of the new system, I am liberal. I want us all to get used to the fact that the questions that the regulations provide for a minute should be asked within a minute. I'm doing this to reassure those who are nervous. Except this nervousness is very selective, because one side gets nervous when someone on the other side is out of time, and vice versa. So let's either get upset about everybody in solidarity, or let's not get upset about anybody, let's just learn how to ask a question in a minute. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, the opposite is not...]] [[Voice from the room: There was no shouting.]] I'm sorry if I did, I'm sorry. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u77	Mr. Senator, you denied yourself in that question. Because on the one hand, you say that I am speaking substantively, and on the other hand, you ask me about politics. No, this call, which I am asking you to consider and vote for it, is dictated by two issues. The first point is my concern as chairman of the Health Committee in the Senate and Senator of the Republic for the health and life of society. You don't offend me that I don't have knowledge, because I have knowledge. And I'm very sorry that you're trying to dissuade me here. The second point that arises from this call is simply calling on the government to take action that the expert and medical community proposes, because only it knows how to manage the epidemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. We're done... There's one more question. Senator Frost. You're welcome. [[No, Mr. Marshal, it's not a question, it's a sort of correction.]] If in correction mode, this is a different mode. Please, in corrigendum mode. Have you been mentioned by name? [[Well, sort of, because you were referring to my question, so maybe I wasn't mentioned by name, but there was a reference to me. Mr. Marshal, you're sitting three feet away from the senator...]] But, Senator, you expect me to follow the rules. If, at the question point, you start your statement by saying that you're not going to ask a question, then I have to respond to it, because it's harder to make it more obvious that you're breaking the rules at this point. [[But, Mr. Marshal, there's a way to correct...]] Unless you... You can refer to the correction mode... [[Plus, it's in mode...]] ...if you've been misquoted. [[And that's the mode I wanted to invoke.]] You're welcome. For the sake of respect for the senator, please. In corrigendum mode. If you'd like to correct your statement, please. [[Voice from the room: His.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u79	Well, it's not my speech, it's the senator's. First of all, Senator, I didn't say you had no knowledge, I just said you had no knowledge. Not as a doctor or as Senator In the context of what the government is doing today, and your only knowledge is from reading information in newspapers or some kind of message. I guess in answer to one of the senators' questions... Senator Necessary told you, and I was listening to you saying that you weren't seeing the minister... [[But, Senator, I'm sorry...]] ...so you don't have that kind of knowledge. [[...you're not making up your mind right now...]] And in this context... [[I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator...]] In this context, I wanted to correct this answer because I was misunderstood about this charge. So here's the thing. And now...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u80	Thank you, Senator. You wanted to correct it, you did. The right time to argue, Senator, will be a debate in which you have 10 minutes and then 5 minutes to say anything you want to say on this matter. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Can I have one sentence, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u81	Once again, I address the High House, all of you, individually to each of you. I have tried to answer all the substantive questions and I ask that you treat this resolution in this way. Indeed, it is up to us senators, who are also popular, recognizable people, how we will react and how we will encourage society to vaccination. Let's give an example. And let this resolution be such an example. We cannot approach this issue indifferently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft resolution presented? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Yes, Mr. Marshal, if you please.]] You're welcome, Minister, in that case. You're... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Yes.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Minister, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Piotr Bromber. You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Thank you. Mr. Marshal...]] Minister, we have adopted such a principle that the substantive speeches of ministers take place from the Senate stand. But to the questions If you'd like to. You'll be able to answer from the spot, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is the young minister, Mr. Marshal.]] And I ask your senators not to comment unnecessarily on things that are not relevant to the substance of our debate. The question of the age of the individual participants in this debate is certainly not a matter of substance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, I see in the attitude and in those words of the president of the debate on the situation, but let me stress: I will allow myself to disagree with its diagnosis and analysis, especially with regard to the interpretation of the documents that we have provided for the committee meeting and have distributed to committee members. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen...]] About... I'll start with technical issues. It's a matter of control. E.g. Since August this year, the police have carried out more than 127 checks on compliance with epidemic restrictions... [[Voice in the room: 127?]] 127,000. It's over 127 grand. This is also the case with the health care services. With regard to staff size issues 'Cause we talked about this at the committee meeting, too, and I was quoting the data. This is due to the fact that the increase in the number of students in medical faculties concerns the current year and years in the period 2016 and 2021. I have said this many times, also at the committee meeting, that over the last years we have increased the number of places in medical courses by 2 000. This, of course, is just one example of what we have done to increase human potential, human resources. Because we are aware that the availability of healthcare services is largely determined by the number of staff. Recently we have introduced non-limitality of benefits, non-limitality in diagnostics, non-limitity in outpatient specialist care. So there's no problem paying for healthcare. To a large extent, this availability is determined by potential. Therefore, our actions aimed at increasing on the one hand the number of places for students and, on the other hand, the number of centres. That's right, they've been created before three. Recently, however, seven additional places have been created, where future doctors are educated. There's 10 of them in total. Very important, because it also determines to a large extent what human resources we will have. Speaking of pandemic issues... Many times, the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, has publicly provided the number of beds we have, the number of beds for hospitalization, the number of beds so called. The respirators indicated what potential we still have to increase them. We have 22 temporary hospitals right now. We had one-name hospitals before. So far, 13 temporary hospitals have been opened since the end of August. At the moment, we still have 4 temporary hospitals in reserve, which can also be triggered, corresponding to the number of infections. In addition to beds, in addition to personnel-oriented activities... I have already mentioned these inputs, for example on so-called additives. covidowe, we spent more than 8 billion. A total of 36 billion has already been allocated to all activities related to COVD-19, of which more than 8 billion have been allocated to the so-called. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. But in addition to these investments, there were also activities related to equipment. Respirators, cardio monitors, chest compression devices, CTs, ECMO apparatus, continuous therapy apparatus... The potential of laboratories has increased significantly, at the moment 321 laboratories are operating, including 293 with a contract with the National Health Fund. These are actions... Of course, someone can say that organizational, but these are activities and organizational, and financial, undertaken to guarantee a sense of health security for patients, residents. Here, too, attention was drawn from the president and the senators about how important communication is, how important it is to shape attitudes. Well, we've provided access to vaccination. The number of vaccines, the number of places you can inoculate... I don't think anybody's gonna question today that he didn't have the ability to inoculate himself. I don't think there's a situation like this, there's no such person. Of course, the big challenge is to shape the attitude, convince the other person to do so. Go into discourse with her, dispel the doubts It's a big challenge. And we are also taking up this challenge, in any case we are trying to have such conversations. We never said we had a monopoly on all solutions, knowledge. I don't think either one of us is gonna die from that kind of monopoly. I think that this situation has also made it clear to us how important it is, however, to look for ways to talk. If Madam President is willing and willing, of course I declare my participation in the Committee on Health, we can try to have a substantive discussion on these issues. We're open. We're open to talking to any environment. It's not true that we don't talk to medical professionals, we don't talk to the environment. In recent weeks, I have met many times with representatives of professional authorities, representatives of residents, representatives of trade unions. Let me remind you that we have been negotiating with the protest committee and we have presented an agreement. In the content of this agreement, we referred to each of the protest committee's demands. This agreement has not been adopted, but we have ensured an increase in the minimum wage through a common position within the tripartite team. Let me remind you that employers and trade unions, trade unions representing particular medical professions, are involved in the work of the trilateral team. Plus, as I said, there were a lot of individual, bilateral, multilateral meetings. Recently, the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski met with representatives of professional self-governments. We listen to the voices of the environment because, like I said, we never said we had a monopoly on knowledge. There was a question of spending here. At the meeting of the Health Committee we presented you also received this country in the form of a printout What is the perspective of spending, how expenditure has increased today and what is the forecast of expenditure growth in the perspective of 2027. It's been said about 6% recently. GDP, today we have 7% GDP. There is a prospect of reaching 7% by 2027. GDP as regards the increase in health expenditure. In conclusion, you can say: expenditure on health care, increase in expenditure, change in the price of benefits, non-limitation of benefits. Here, Madam President also mentioned providing benefits to patients not with COVID-19. This is what it is all about, to manage both human potential, because it is the most important, as well as bed, hardware, to provide benefits for patients with COVID-19 and patients with other diagnoses at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. If that's your wish... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Yes?]] ... then, of course, please, you can answer right away. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u85	Minister, since you represent the Minister of Health, this is the order, I would like to ask you a very specific question: is the Minister of Health in favour of a covid passport, a document confirming vaccination, a condition for the presence of a citizen in public places and will he come up with such a legislative initiative in the Council of Ministers in the near future? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The Minister of Health has repeatedly declared his willingness to take decisions on the one hand that are adequate, on the other hand those that take into account, in addition to the issue of the number of infections, social issues and economic issues, also issues related to the acceptance of decisions taken. The Minister of Health has taken and will take decisions taking into account the aspects I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary. [[Mr. Marshal, I haven't received an answer.]] This, Mr. Senator, I suggest you sign up. once again to ask the question and repeated it. [[But...]] Other... [[It would have been easier, Mr. Marshal, if you had taken care of the answer.]] But, Senator, I don't have that kind of authority, because you're perfectly aware that I'm not the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health. Therefore, my authority over the Vice Minister is zero. It is my job to ensure that you have a fair debate. If the senator has the impression that the Minister has completely failed to answer your question, I, by sharing this impression, suggest that you repeat this question, because I do not find another regulatory formula to satisfy your reasonable doubts. [[Mr. Minister doesn't just know.]] Please take the floor to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, it is known that the outbreak period is the time in which we should maintain the highest standards in management, in the conduct of all these epidemic-related, treatment-related issues, etc. Therefore, I will ask the Minister: what requirements should the chief health inspector of the country meet? Can the Minister answer that question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u91	Mr. Senator, public figures, among others. the function you are talking about must meet the requirements set out in the regulations that define their status. The law which regulates the operation of health inspection also determines the competence of the person managing that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will immediately say that I ask you to answer my questions in writing, because they are quite detailed and I would like to have a reply in writing. Number one: how many members do the Medical Council currently have in front of your Prime Minister? My second question: how many members of the Medical Council have made declarations of no conflict of interest or conflict of interest? Third: if no one has submitted, is such a declaration required or not? If not required, why? And last question: why has the Prime Minister's order not been amended in such a way as to record the Medical Council meetings with the President of the Council of Ministers? This is of fundamental importance for public disclosure and also for disputes that are currently pending before Polish courts. I'm thinking about a class action here... [[Timer signal]] ...the catering industry against the Treasury. Please answer in writing to each of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. Because these are the questions you intend to answer in writing, and the Minister does not have to answer them now. I ask you to ask me another question by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to get a second time, perhaps. A clear answer, or actually a confirmation of the basic fact, which here was attempted in one of the statements of the senators from the opposite side of the room. This is a 52 percent increase in the limits for medical studies between the academic year 2015/2016 and the current year. I understand that this is due to the actions of the Government of Law and Justice. If yes, please confirm it clearly. And then there's the second line. Would you mind explaining if we even know what's going on... Because in the discussion there was a statement that in 2020 spending on health care was reduced... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Timer signal]] ...in relation to the previous year. I understand that not only percentage, but also absolute numbers. Could you correct that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! These increases in the materials we have provided for the committee's meeting last years. They are shown in comparison to data from 2015/2016... For example: stationary studies in Polish, medical course, currently 5 thousand 479 places, academic year 2015/2016 An increase of 1 000 890 seats, confirmed. About... I also confirm, in line with the materials we have provided at the Health Committee, an increase in health expenditure in recent years. About 2019 and 2020... In 2020 this was an increase of 116 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u99	Minister, I didn't get the answer to the question. You were talking about the method of making decisions. So I will ask you again precisely, because this is a matter of responsibility of Minister Niedzielski and you, not of the government as a whole, whether the Minister of Health will in the near future take the initiative to change the law on the basis of which the document on vaccinations, the covid passport will be a condition for presence in public places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Minister, I understand you understood the senator's question? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Mr. Marshal, I understood this question.]] Yes, sir. Since you were kind enough not to answer the previous question, I wanted to be sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u101	Mr. Marshal, I answered that question. The senator may feel unsatisfied with the answer, but I answered the question. As a supplement... As the senator rightly said, I have pointed to a model of decision-making. It's a supplement. I would add that every decision and legislative initiative taken in this area is kept informed by the Minister of Health. That's what happened, and that's what's gonna happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u102	Thank you, Minister. Senator Dorota Tobiszowska's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have a question for you. And I would ask for an answer now, here, but also in writing. My question is: at what stage are the clinical trials on amantadine? At the beginning of the pandemic, there was a lot on TV about this drug. I'm not a doctor, so I don't know where, when... Are such tests being carried out? And at what stage Are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And other senators, I would very much ask you not to disturb me. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u105	I confirm that these tests are ongoing. Detailed information will be provided in a written reply to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u106	Thank you kindly, Minister. Please, Senator Frost has a question for the Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u107	Minister, I'm gonna ask you to answer the question. I suspect you won't be able to answer now... If you are able, then of course I ask for an answer here in the courtroom, but if you cannot, please answer this question in writing, through the Marshal of the Senate. I am speaking through your marshal because I would also like the answer to this question to be reached by Senator Małecka-Libera, President of the Health Committee. Please indicate the expenditure on health care from 2008 to ... well, until last year. How much did the National Health Fund have in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020? What percentage of GDP was transferred over the years to health care? And tell me what they were like over the years... [[Timer signal]] ... those from 2008 to 2020, additional, in addition to the National Health Fund's contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u109	Mr Senator, the materials we have made available at the Health Committee are information on the increase in health expenditure, both on the increase in health expenditure and on additional measures to increase health expenditure. In this material we've already delivered to you... From this material, which we have already delivered to you, it appears that between 2015 and 2020 health expenditures have increased by 44.2% according to the plan. , and according to performance By more than 50%. This is the perspective, as I said, between 2015 and 2020. The material we have provided to you is taken into account in the broader perspective, from 2010 to 2020. I confirm the increase in expenditure in this perspective. Of course, if there is such a suggestion, we will answer that question in writing again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jolanta Hibner's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u111	Thank you very much. Minister, there was a match at the Ten Years Stadium in Warsaw a few days ago. It was reported that there were about 55 thousand people at this match, they were watching this match. You said there were a hundred and dozen police interventions. I'd like to know how many of these 55,000 people Almost all of them were without masks, and what punishments were given to them. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. If the answer's to be in writing, the Minister doesn't have to answer now. I ask you to ask Senator Józef Zając's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In view of the fact that, contrary to what was claimed a few years earlier, we have found that we are training very few doctors in comparison with the demand, I would like to know what percentage of places are occupied by those who come from abroad to study paid. That's one thing. Secondly, what plans does the Ministry have in terms of the possibility of increasing the number of places in medical studies in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u115	That's a quarter. We no longer agree to increase the limit in universities supervised by the Minister of Health. Today is the Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Colleges. We're discussing education, the number of places. I assume we'll be discussing this tonight. Today we spoke among others. an increase in subsidies to medical universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I would just like to remind you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions of Senator Jolanta Hibner, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Dorota Tobiszowska. I'm opening... [[Me too...]] I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator. Excuse me? [[I would ask for an answer in writing, too, because this information...]] Senator Mr. Mroz's question will also be answered in writing. [[Because...]] Yes, Mr. Senator. It's all on the record. [[...the time space I was asking about was completely different from the time space you were talking about.]] Don't worry, it's in the protocol. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I will repeat in part what I said at the Senate Health Committee meeting. I want to stress that today we have 28,000 128 new cases and nearly 500 people died, exactly 497. As many as 660,000 170 people are quarantined. In Poland, empowerment is relatively low. I believe that in this case, the government has not done everything that it can and what it should do. Vaccinations are the only method that would allow us, Poles, to get rid of this disease, although maybe not once and for all. I don't know if you know this, but our gate is recently discovered, on November 11th, a new variant of coronavirus, which is already in South Africa and Hong Kong. Unfortunately, people travel with him, he'll probably come to us, too. It's a virus with a lot of potential. As they say, it has a huge number of spikes, which are among others. His infectiveness. It is a variant B11529 called Nu strain. Will this vaccine we've been receiving so far cover this virus? We don't know yet. But I'm going back to vaccination. Why am I starting with this? Because I think this case is crucial, actually the most important thing. Why? Because there are a lot of people leaving right now. As John Paul II said, this is how generations pass through Ashes to ashes and dust to dust. He said it for a different reason, so that we will not forget those who are leaving. But I am firmly convinced that if the government made other decisions, now, during the fourth wave... This isn't about bringing in a lockdown. Lockdown is the worst thing that can happen to Poles right now. The economy is barely alive. It would be much easier to introduce prizes, amenities for those who have vaccinated themselves. Minister, why aren't you doing this? Why? I just can't figure it out. You let 500 people die a day. You know perfectly well, and the entire ministry knows that the disease does not come from anywhere, that it moves from one sick person to another. I understand that there are anti-vaccine movements, but I'll tell you, for me, the life of every human being is invaluable, including those anti-vaccines who now die under respirators at 20, 30, 40 years old. You said it yourself, 99%. sick people who are dying right now are people who haven't been vaccinated. Unfortunately, they also threaten those who are vaccinated. There are uninsulated people between us who are infected. I stress that the incubation time of the virus is up to 14 days, which is even 2 weeks. On average, it's really median, it takes 5.6 days. Why haven't the facilities been introduced? Why aren't covid passports required at the entrance to the store, to the movies, to the theater? No one forbids people who don't want to vaccinate themselves to vaccinate themselves. If they really don't want to, because they think they're more powerful than everyone else in this divine world, and they certainly won't get sick, they won't die, they can do the test. This is the case in most European countries. My son came back from Holland, where you can't go into the store for buns if you don't show your covid passport. Why isn't this here? And that's not discrimination because everyone has the right to inoculate, just like you said. Well, it's true that the availability of vaccination is good, that there are enough places for vaccination. Therefore, this propaganda campaign that the Ministry of Health is running is too poor. If it doesn't get to people, maybe the prizes will get to them, maybe then they'll start to vaccinate. Because it's really crucial. Many very important topics have been raised by the President, and this also sounded at the committee meeting, but really I already said that at the Health Committee meeting. The most important thing is human life. Like I said, you can fight and make peace, you can rebuild a bridge when it's demolished, you can build a new house when the old house collapses or we don't like it anymore. But if someone goes to that side, they'll never come back to us again. I know what death means. Unfortunately, for 46 years of my professional career, I have seen many children die. One of the mothers wrote that it was so horrible as if the light on Earth had gone out, as if the world had ended, as if there was nothing left. Don't you feel that this corpse for reasons... I don't believe there's a man in the world who, for political reasons, wouldn't make a health decision that would save human life. Well, that's out of the question, that's impossible. Do something to make it change. [[Applause]] Let's not try to be smarter than everyone else in this world. Why did all the countries around us do that and we didn't? Well, I can't understand it. Today, almost 500 people died without a few, and tomorrow, 600 will die. Those people aren't coming back to us anymore. I'm convinced that many families are crying right now, just like my moms are crying after these kids. I really believe that the entire Senate will support this resolution, because it is for nothing and it is not political. This is a resolution to poke the government you're a member of, to do something, to do something quickly and vigorously. And one more thing, I also talked about it at the Health Committee meeting. I do not understand why, since you yourself have just said from this speaker that it is not good with medical staff, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki thinks that he has too high a threshold and cannot leave his office across the street and talk to him if the medical staff wants to talk to him, not to you, not to your boss and not to any advice, but to him. Prime Minister, I appeal to you, too: go and talk to people. And to anti-vaccines, I have a hot request because my heart hurts when you're dying right now because of this disease, think, read, listen to experts and think if you're doing the right thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in an atmosphere of permanent danger: threats to freedom of speech, threats to economic poverty, crazy expensive, inflation, climate threats and, worst of all, threats to our health and life. The epidemic mercilessly exposed the crisis, collapse, chaos and underfunding of health care, which resulted from a fatal strategy, or rather the lack of a strategy to combat pandemics. A good strategy and good, efficient management of the epidemic would save us or at least significantly reduce the consequences of threats to our health and life. Moreover, making good decisions, quick decisions and in due course would maintain the availability of treatment for patients with chronic diseases other than COVID, cardiovascular disease, diabetes or cancer. Meanwhile, 70,000 people died in Poland in 2020 more than in 2019 That's the most deaths since World War II. And, according to Eurostat, Poland spent the least on health protection in relation to GDP in 2020 against other countries of the European Union. In all Member States, there has been an increase in the funds transferred in relation to GDP, outside Poland. This constantly increases the distance, the distance between Poland and the European Union. From the report of the Association of Polish Cities we can learn that in 2019 Poland was in third place in the 27 countries of the European Union in terms of expenditure on health protection. This is another 2 places down compared to previous years, compared to 2015. Please note that in Poland, expenditure on health care is calculated according to GDP from 2 years ago. It is also worthwhile to have a real picture of the amount of expenditure on health care, to count their percentage in the state budget, then we will have a clear picture. It is also worth knowing that if the state budget grows, then the percentage increase in health expenditure, which is nominally... But the percentage increase in health expenditure is not as high as we hear here. Let me focus on one of the areas of health protection, which, like the whole system, is affected by a massive crisis, I mean oncology. We're not as scared of any other disease as we are of cancer. In Poland, about 200,000 people suffer from cancer each year, and some 120 000 die. During the pandemic, this situation has deteriorated significantly due to limited access to specialists. In 2020 18 000 DiLO cards were issued less. That doesn't mean there's less cancer patients, that means they're less likely to go to a doctor. Oncology is underfunded. The total amount per person in Poland is 96 euros per year. In the Czech Republic EUR 147, in Austria, Belgium EUR 260, in Germany EUR 287. Among the examples of 22 countries in Europe, Poland is at the 17th place in this respect. We are also separated from other countries in terms of access to modern oncology drugs. In Austria and Germany, about EUR 100 per person is allocated to innovative drug therapies. In Poland, 16 euros per person. On 101 drug therapies used in the most malignant cancers in the European Union, as many as 44 are not available in Poland. If they were available, we could save about 30,000 people. It is so bad that doctors from Scandinavia come to Poland to see what advanced stage of cancer looks like. And it was supposed to be better, as promised, from the presidential election campaign in 2020. This was to be ensured by the noisyly announced Medical Fund, which was to be a rescue for cancer patients, for rare diseases, including children under the age of 18. A fund to mobilise funds for investments in high-specialist oncology, paediatric and pulmonological hospitals. These were supposed to be measures for modernization of hospitals, prevention, staff and the greatest hope of people with cancer, such as innovative therapies, treatment of children, availability for treatment abroad, new technologies and access to high-clinical therapies. We well remember that at the same time the government, at the same time when it announced the creation of the Medical Fund, has spent 2 billion a year on public media for almost 5 years. Today, after almost two years, the state of health and oncology are catastrophic. The fund doesn't work. The government failed. Two years have been lost. Of the 6 billion PLN which should be at the disposal of the fund and should be devoted to saving the life and health of Poles suffering from cancer, only 170 million PLN was used, while propaganda was transferred to nearly 6 billion PLN, from the beginning of President Kurski. Real propaganda measures, virtual health measures. In a word, empty promises. And I'm not talking here about a million electric cars, about Polish medical work, about the program "Cyberpark Enigma" or about 100 thousand apartments, about the connections to PKS, about the program "Zwirkko and Wigura" or about the program "Batory" or about Luxtorped 2.0. I am talking about the deepening state of the threat of life and health of Poles. I'm talking about the Medical Fund as an element of a health system that doesn't work. So what happened, where's the money? The idea of the Medical Fund is not being implemented. I mean, why? People die, and it's particularly painful that little children die. Moreover, contrary to what was announced at the beginning of 2020, the Medical Fund is not additional resources. Each gold for the Medical Fund reduces subsidies from the state budget to the National Health Fund, which means less money for all other benefits. I ask the entire High House to take this call to protect us from the mess, the chaos, the underfunding and the ongoing health disaster. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u120	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u121	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Dear Minister, Having listened to this debate, to the questions, let me be honest: why is it so bad if it's so good? It's such a duality in which there's denial of self. From the very beginning of this pandemic, I have been acting as a senator, but above all as a doctor of practice, working on a bit of a covid ward, in private health care. And I'm watching it all as a doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for the fact that I have some medical knowledge and guidance... Because you can work over the divisions, and I say it to this part of the room, although here, on this side, I have only one doctor's colleague on our side is a little bit more... But there are 13 of us in Parliament. I think that this subject of health protection and in general its condition, and especially during the pandemic, is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Medical Council at our premiere, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, already on April 26, 2021, issued clear recommendations and guidelines for doctors. Of course, we had to get to them ourselves, through our friendship with different... That wasn't the kind of material we had available to us. And now, November 12th, there are updates. There's Professor Robert Flisiak on this team, and there's also Mr Andrzej Horban. It's possible to work beyond the divisions of pandemic management. And I really, as a physician, appeal to depoliticize the issue of pandemic management at all, because it doesn't serve anyone. From the very beginning as... thank you, Madam President, for the opportunity to participate actively in the committee's work. Because we all want to help the minister there, but, as the President said, since Minister Szumowski, Minister Niedzielski has never... While he was still in charge of the fund, he showed up at our house, and I don't remember him being at our meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, there's one part about the primary care of a COVID patient... And I'm gonna ask a rhetorical question here, because in my view, as a practice, after seeing the deaths in the ambulances before entering the covid troops, when we called for these troops to be formed, but so strategically, and not missed, where there are no personnel, where we haven't had those high-flow cameras discussed by you yet, respirators... Because I was in such a situation that I had to intervene with Minister Kraska so that our patients would not die within 2 days, I had to transfer them to the temporary unit in Pyrzowice, because having a unit, I could not connect them with high-flow oxygen therapy, although patients needed it... There was a moment in the third wave. And I really thought that if you went into vaccinations, when you spent one billion zloty on promoting these vaccinations... But we don't see the effects of the money spent. So we should figure out if this promotion was really good. The numbers prove that we didn't, because we didn't achieve population immunity, which translates to death. And in the end, I'm going to say this: "I'm thinking this from the heart." You're gonna end up saying that it's all because we doctors aren't treating well, we're making bad decisions. Managing a pandemic isn't easy, I feel sorry for you. Perhaps any other government couldn't handle 100% either. But 100 years ago there were pandemics, people didn't travel and die. We now have high technologies, we have a fund to rebuild our economy, including health, after the pandemic period and political affairs and the lack of the rule of law, we will most certainly not have that money, because the National Plan for Reconstruction was not consistent with what the Union recommended. How would you like to look Poles in this situation? When epidemiologists over division say when the medical world speaks about the fact that there is no time for reflection, there is time for action and now you have to decide, as in the current situation, as in the anti-vaccine movement, with such a huge heft on doctors who work all the time, although the power is no longer in the medical profession... If you went to the hospital, you'd see that the flash in your eyes that we want to help is gone. It is only a duty, because we want to treat both vaccinated and uninsulated persons. And this fourth wave of pandemics is special because the patient is difficult. This is a patient who undermines medical authority, undermines academic knowledge. Only when he's in a life-threatening condition does he ask for help. And here's a big field for you guys... because you're in charge and you're in charge of managing the pandemic. We can help if there are substantive conversations, as the Minister said. We're open. But it's not time for reflection, it's time for action. I will not repeat the arguments of my colleagues, the senator and senators who have already died here because we speak like a mantra. That's what we really know. And I want to refer to this budget because I know where the problem is. I know that from the hospital directors, from the unit managers. When there was a pandemic, the number of minor procedures fell, because people stayed home, did not apply for new treatments and flat rates for these services fell, probably in the second quarter of 2020. And the country is calculating the lump sum for the following year in connection with this third quarter. This was also the subject of a lot of debate on the budget. I think we will return to this matter if we discuss the budget in January at all, as the President said. I'm appealing. An appeal is necessary because it is such an incentive for you that we do not remain silent about it. And I'm appealing as a doctor who's going back to her house, and yesterday, a 29-year-old patient died because he didn't inoculate, and a 50-year-old on a ventilator... Because patients get a second degree of disease to the hospital, not the first one, when there's still good sats. And that's where modern therapies should be available, as they are in the recommendations of this team. I ask the Minister only rhetorically: how many people in the first stage of the disease have received molnupyravir or casirivimab? I'd like to know as a doctor of practice whether primary healthcare doctors have access to this kind of treatment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u122	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about the general state of Polish medicine, of course through the prism of pandemics You can't miss it. But we're talking about general condition. It is true that 30 years of negligence have an impact on this condition. There have been various neglects, different periods of better, worse during these 30 years, but there has generally not been such an approach that would provide us with good modern medicine today, corresponding to what is right for society. We don't have that kind of medicine in Poland. We have problems with our staff, but we have prepared them ourselves, because we once limited the recruitment for medical studies, reduced the number of specializations... in terms of the number of specialization places, eliminated nursing schools recklessly by entering the European Union, and it was possible to fight for this system to be maintained. We took a number of such actions because we had the belief that everything that came out of the Polish People's Republic is wrong and all this needs to be changed. But when it comes to the training system, the staff system and the number of these staff, this system had to be maintained in this respect. But we gave in to some myths, e.g. There's too many doctors. That's what we used to say, too many nurses, too many hospitals, too many procedures that don't need all of this. That's what they said. From here today, for example. We're short of infectious diseases and infectious diseases. In the last 10 years, the number of places in infectious diseases units has decreased by 1/4 just before the pandemic. I checked it out. So that a few more years and it would really be even worse to manage this epidemic. These myths, which also function, are always such: that spending on health care It's a sack without a day, that there will never be as much as it takes, that no country has as much money as it should be... and the chief myth that everyone keeps saying that first reforms, then money, that first we have to reform. I've been hearing this for 30 years, that first we have to reform and then give money, because if we give money before, they'll be wasted, which means people's treatment will be a waste of money. And these myths unfortunately sometimes sound today, even though there is a pandemic, even though we should all look at it differently. Today, the question is whether the Ministry of Health is definitely in charge of health. 'Cause I'm having second thoughts. As I hear it saying that we have to take care of the economy, that we have to make sure that there is no social unrest, and that there are other things... Yes, but that's what ministers are for. There is a Minister of the Interior who is to ensure that there is no anxiety, and cares, is very sharp in various situations, e.g. last year or now you see in your strength at the Belarusian border. Here we must submit to any protests... Anything we're worried about going out on the street will be against government action. Well, that's why I think the Ministry of Health should focus more on what's most important, so that people don't die and fall into a dangerous disease that goes crazy in Poland. The ministry's approach is strange these days, too. In my opinion, we have the most conflicted with the environment of the Minister of Health, as I remember, a non-talking, often considering medical staff as some people who do not understand the system, who do not know what this system is about, a minister who does not have a real dialogue. There's no respect for doctors. It's the best way to see it... I always remind you of this one hundredth, this indicator 1.31. That one hundredth was for that. I'm not going to develop it because there's no time for it. In order not to reduce the salary of doctors to specialists, because the calculations showed that if they were given a rate of 1.3, it would be a reduction in salary, so you gave from 1 November 19 a raise instead of a few zloty reductions, hence the ratio is 1.31 rather than 1.3. During the outbreak of 19 PLN raise... This is gonna follow you guys all the time. What should we do? It should be under the conditions we have today, having two plans. The Ministry should have a short-term plan. A short-term plan is to manage health care in the context of a shortage of staff. Such conditions will continue for several or several years. And that's what you should be prepared for. These staffs simply need to be pampered, talked to, not ignored, not impatient, and that you can win with them, only with these staff should we have a real dialogue so that these staffs will serve us as long as possible and as much as possible over the coming years. Later, a second long-term plan, if the staff situation improves and we can create normal medicine, where doctors don't work on shifts of 10 and 12, where you don't have to take 100 patients a day, where you can take care of patients as you should. This is the next stage. At this stage, we need to build hospitals. Built, because the conditions under which patients are in hospitals today are derogating human dignity. Where they change, where they keep things, what conditions they eat. I'm not talking about the treatment of the outfits they wear around the hospital... We all know what Polish hospitals really look like. All this needs to be changed, not just C.T. scans, not just magnetic resonance imaging. Very good that they are. It is very good that the limits for testing are lifted, although it is actually clear that there is no one to describe these tests, because even if the magnetic resonance is done, a month is waiting for the description, because it is not the device that carries out the tests, but the person who describes the result of the test. You're making terrible mistakes today. I repeat, terrible mistakes. Such a mistake is the way to reward workers in the fourth wave of pandemics. You don't give covid supplements on the terms you gave last year, which is a huge mistake. People get paid for an hour in front of covid patients. What kind of idea is that? Does a policeman receive money for time spent in front of a criminal or for his service? If someone works in the covid unit, they're employed there, they're doing tests, they're going to the doctor's office, they're leaving the department, they're doing other tests, they're still at risk. Is this a threat that lasts 15 minutes... I don't know. I don't know how you're gonna verify how hospitals are supposed to report and who's supposed to pay. Please return to normal covid additives that were earlier. You didn't give covid accessory to S.R. employees who are going to patients with suspicion of COVID and COVID. These SOR patients lie 24 hours, two or three, because often there is nothing to do with them. Please don't tell me that there are so many places that it's so good, because we know very well that it's not. You're not gonna create these places in temporary hospitals because you're gonna have to strip down normal hospitals from personnel. This is the epidemiology situation and this is the staff situation. Why do many people die in Poland? Also because we don't have any personnel reserves. If in Poland a doctor took 10 shifts before the pandemic, he will not take 20 now. If he's on 4 shifts in Germany, he can take 8. This is a completely different burden and a different approach to health protection. Ladies and gentlemen, there's inflation. What's your idea? Hospitals are to be awarded contracts in the first half of next year at the level at the beginning of this year, and will be charged by 10% higher costs. At the hospital where I work, the electricity will go up 54% and the gas will go up 114%. Has the Ministry of Health already issued a directive for the NFZ to raise the level of inflation contracts? Do you guys even think about it? Do you even consider it? Are hospitals supposed to pay and indebt themselves and then be wound up as unprofitable individuals that are loss-making? The hospital won't raise its own price for treating pneumonia or bleeding from a ruptured stomach ulcer. No. The NFZ determines everything without taking into account any real costs. Evaluations of medical procedures have been reduced in Poland for many years, as we know. You can't say you're not doing anything. I wouldn't say that. Indeed, there is an increase in expenditure, there is a greater number of students. It's true. Only as we look at the number of nurses leaving the profession and coming to the profession, we know well that the situation will not improve for the next 10 to 15 years. You have to do more, you have to act faster, and you have to respect the health workers. Without that, your technocratic approach to health is no good. You may win by heart, but patients will not be supplied properly, and health care will not be what we all expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u124	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u125	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are now proceeding with a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the current state of health protection. I would like to point out that during the meetings of the Committee on Health and the Legislative Committee, when this project was being examined, it has changed somewhat. The last paragraph adds the following wording: "Calls the Government of the Republic of Poland to take the necessary decisions restricting the spread of Coronavirus, taking into account the recommendations of the Medical Council in the cases of COVID-19 at the President of the Council of Ministers. End of quote. This is a novel, in the original submission of this phrase there was no. Therefore, I believe that some fundamental questions are being raised. If the government were to implement the assumptions If all or not, because there is such a formula, it takes into account, and whether all takes into account whether part of it is indeterminate, but let's assume that the intention of the applicants was that in general all the recommendations are taken into account, in my opinion, it would require some legislative change, because the efficient way of governing the government is responsible constitutionally and in accordance with all the laws, while the Medical Council at the Prime Minister's President is an advisory body and its meetings are not even recorded, i.e. from the documents we do not know who called for the introduction e.g. That's the solution, not the other way around. Yes, positions and communications are published, but they are very laconic and are signed by the President of the Medical Council. If the Medical Council were to be an organ that is important for the life, health and functioning of tens of millions of Poles, in terms of their civil liberties, their ability to act and economic freedoms, their ability to stay in public space, all civil rights, then I believe that such a council should have a statutory mandate and should lay down the rules under which these recommendations of the Council are taken into account, taken into account by the Government of the Republic of Poland. Otherwise, it seems as if some members of the council complained to some politicians that their voice is not being listened to enough, so we might add it to the draft resolution. Now I'm going to the board. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it was not by chance that I asked by the Minister the kind of questions that voters are asking me, who would like to know whether Professor X and Professor Y, who speak as experts, have signed a declaration of no conflict of interest or have signed a declaration of conflict of interest. It's fundamental. Each of us, parliamentarians sitting here, takes some responsibility for the state, is a member of the supreme body of the legislative authority in the Republic of Poland, but is subject to procedures, makes a illustrative statement, describes the state of the estate, all data are known. However, in the case of the Medical Council, which would have so much competence, it is indeterminate. The answer I received to my statement on these protocols shows that there is no obligation here. This is due to the order. So I have no objection to the members of the Medical Council to be clear, but I have resentment for the way the President of the Council of Ministers organized this body. I do not know what it is about these declarations, and for me this is an essential degree of professionalization and access to information. The citizen has the right to know whether the expert who is speaking has made such a declaration or has no relationship, e.g. with the pharmaceutical industry, and if so, in what capacity, whether it might affect his opinion or not. We know that the issue of pharmaceutical companies and very discreet lobbying has been mentioned many times here, in our House, and in the Seym, and in the Senate. This is a very sensitive area of the council's operation. The second sensitive area is a matter of documenting her work, what she said, at least at these official meetings. The President of the Council of Ministers must not be based on the opinions of a semi-private body which has been set up and which is to determine such important matters. Another thing. It is said that Poles do not want to vaccinate themselves. It's true, a large part of the population doesn't want to be vaccinated for different reasons. But you have to think about, among other things. Why they don't want to vaccinate themselves. I recall January 2021. The Prime Minister announced the emergence of a compensation fund. I don't know if you remember, but it was supposed to be a fund... Since vaccine producers are not responsible for this preparation to calm the social moods, a compensation fund was to be set up, which, if there were, however, a negative vaccine effect, would be used under certain conditions to compensate for this. There was a discussion, the point was the case of death, as I remember this discussion, but there were some far-reaching work on it. This was supposed to be the answer to these social unrests. So? Then I made a statement, which was a senate interpellation, and I got an answer. In June, I submitted it. It's going to be in the second quarter. The second quarter has long passed and this compensation bill has not yet been in place. I give these two examples to show that if you say A in such cases, you have to say B. If you are going to set up a Medical Council, you have to define precisely what are the criteria, what are the ways in which you are going to sit, what are your responsibilities, what are your rights? This is the elementary minimum transparency of public life in Poland. And if we were to read into the draft resolution now... After all, the private or less private statements of most experts aim at this: in fact, in order to reduce the spread of the virus, a total lockdown should be introduced in Poland, and not only in Poland. And from a purely medical, sanitary point of view, this is probably the right point, because it is the physical elimination of the possibility of transmission of the virus. But is that possible from an economic, social, cultural, political point of view? That's the question. You have to answer yourself. It is not that only the voice of the medical community is to be taken into account in the fight against the coronavirus. We also need to look at the broader context, we need to look at the broader context of this fight against COVID: economic impact, social impact, mental impact on Polish youth lockdown, which was caused by the closing of schools. How much are we talking about? About the need to strengthen child psychiatry, etc., etc.? That is why I believe that this point about the Medical Council should be either modified or deleted, because it is a postulate in a sense either utopian or simply impossible to implement without changing the order. If it were to say that we believe that the Medical Council should act on the basis of a specific order according to which these meetings are recorded, etc. Well, it's those issues that I've just addressed that we're calling for a law that would legally give such a council to the President of the Council of Ministers as an analytical and advisory and consultative body, so please, we can discuss it. And in this form, it's kind of a fiction. I'm sorry to be harsh, but I am. On the one hand, there is a council, many Polish esteemed, prominent professors sit on this council, on the other hand there is their frustration, because I listen to interviews with them and watch them that are not taken into account their opinions... [[Timer signal]] ...on the third hand, as they are convenient, they are taken into account, and as uncomfortable, they are not taken into account, while the opposition is preparing a resolution in which it wants the recommendations of the council to be taken into account. Well, it's getting a little vicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u126	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. To be honest, I'm listening to this debate with astonishment. I wasn't planning on taking part, because we have enough ladies and senators here, specialists, people who are competent in this area we're talking about, so in health care. But the level of this amazement has reached such a ceiling that at least some issues, I believe, have to address. They fell here, for example. questions, and it is from the Minister, but also from some of the representatives of Law and Justice, as we, as representatives of the opposition, have to propose what we present on this issue. And what I want to say is, first of all, give us the power, and we'll show you immediately. [[You've already shown it.]] Because if you don't know how to act in such a difficult situation as it is, and you have not only your own, but the European and global experience of almost two years of pandemic... And a wise man learns from his mistakes. Too bad it's on your own, but as smart as it is on your own, and as smart as it is on someone else's. For two years you cannot learn either from your mistakes or from the mistakes of others, those that, and indeed, have been committed in other countries of Europe or the world. So if you can't learn, you can't create the right strategy, you can't act, you can't protect Poles and Poles from the negative effects of the pandemic, then resign, then walk away, and show that you have honor. Eighty thousand people died directly because of the COVID-19 pandemic, 140 thousand died for other reasons, but due to the ongoing pandemic. Quarter-million-dollar town's gone. And you can't show your honor and resign? Just to give room, perhaps, to those who are more competent than you. How many more people are to die so that you do not present the shame that you present today, but show up and leave by resigning? There have been questions about what we would propose. What has been fulfilled and has worked out in Europe and the world: vaccinations. There's no other way. Recently, a government representative in the Federal Republic of Germany said that Germany would either be vaccinated or they would be sick or dying. There's no fourth solution. This does not apply to Germans, it applies to all: French, Hungarians, Italians, Poles. It was only there that it was understood that of this alternative it was the first solution: to vaccinate. There are no countries yet, at least in Europe, which introduce an obligation to vaccinate, an obligation, which would entail punishment, a penalty. But there are countries that solve it in a completely different and civilized way. The right to control vaccinations by entrepreneurs, of course, with the competences resulting from this and not without the powers, which you probably planned There wouldn't be an agreement. Moreover, it is more about an incentive system than bans on the fact that those who do not inoculate do not have the right to use public services, public services, in which this can cause the spread of pandemics. Solutions are and are checked in other countries. That was the answer and the charge, not directly from the government. - Well, the minister's between the lines, too. Only directly on the part of the benches of Law and Justice that people do not agree. The Prime Minister even said that a large part of society did not agree to such sharpenings. So I would like to ask: when you broke the constitution and destroyed the rule of law in Poland and hundreds of thousands of people Not only in Warsaw and not only in big and small cities, but even in small towns, did you go out into the streets in protests, showing your social discord, then you were not afraid of public opinion? And when you harassed women and in hundreds of thousands of them went out in protest on the streets of Polish cities and towns, then you were not afraid of public opinion? And when your services attacked these defenseless women, they used telescopic batons, they sprayed gas in their eyes, that's when you weren't afraid of those people? And when you were destroying free media when you wanted to finish off one of the most important commercial televisions and when hundreds of thousands of people were going out on the streets of Polish cities and towns, weren't you afraid of public opinion? Didn't you have any shame when you were hitting them with stick and pepper spray? Now that you are at war with the European Union, with individual Member States of the European Union, also with our neighbours, when you are not executing the TSUE's sanctions when people are protesting against it, are you not afraid of these protests? You're gonna send the police on us, too, so she can piss us off and spray us in the eye because we want to stay in the European Union? Where's your decency? Where's the shame? Fucking hell... Where's the honor? If you have honor, resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u128	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To be honest, I'm just wondering if I can change my speech after this, and I'm gonna say the disgusting, disgusting speech of Senator Sejnfeld... [[Voice from the room: How can you...]] ...who talked about decency, shame, honor. I could also... I don't want to think that this is the thinking of more Senators of the Civic Platform or of the Senate, so I'm going to say that I'm going to kill myself for this decency, for this shame, and for this honor I'm going to be not to the Platform, but specifically to the person who said such things from this speaker and mixed up the threads. And we're discussing a very difficult issue today. The fight against COVID. About fighting COVID. Yes, Senator Szejnfeld, people die of COVID in Poland, Germany, France, the United States, Sweden, unfortunately, in many countries. In some lands more are dying, in others It's less than that. It depends on very different factors. In our country, relative to these deaths... They are, unfortunately, also happen, at different times there are more, sometimes less. I remember how the beginning of the COVID pandemic was and we were making the sharpenings, just like most countries. At that time, many journalists, many commentators, said: "Look, Sweden does not introduce this, take an example from Sweden. What are you doing? You're shutting down schools, forests, businesses, making life difficult, shutting down the economy, it's going to be a tragedy. We did not then listen to all those who suggested this, we introduced sharpenings, in parallel we also introduced, as far as possible, some help for Polish entrepreneurs. There were periods, of course they can be chosen when these deaths were less in Poland compared to Germany, there was more. The COVID Pandemic continues and unfortunately people will die on this COVD. There's only one thing I can agree with Senator Szejnfeld, i.e. that we should all encourage Poles to vaccinate. In August, at the beginning of September, I went around a lot of festivals and on every harvest I was at, I called on people to get vaccinated, and I also vaccinated myself. This was also called for by the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, perhaps all government ministers, almost all of our Members. Here I am talking about Members of the Law and Justice, because we are creating a government of the United Right, and there are probably two or three people who do not really want to inoculate themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, playing COVID, playing that many people die on COVID and such disgraceful speeches as Senator Szejnfeld's, I say it with regret, because we are colleagues in the Senate, even though we sit on different sides of the Senate. This resolution serves nothing but politics, this resolution serves nothing but fight against the government, except that one, the other, the third Senator of the Platform, you, you will be able to criticize the government. We have invited you several times to cooperate, in October last year you invited the Prime Minister, at the last minute actually came... [[Voices from the O.R.:]] Yes, to see the Prime Minister. In January he invited Minister Dworczyk to the meeting. You have not yet left the door, from your meeting with Minister Dworczyk, and you have already held press conferences and criticized, because Minister Dworczyk has revealed to you that the government has resigned from buying vaccines for the fourth quarter of this year. Remember, find on the Internet, in the media, nothing dies there, as the opposition criticized, said what a scandal it is, how irresponsible the government is that it doesn't want to buy additional vaccines, and it's possible to buy them. Only the government said, no, we needed these vaccines in January, February, March, and the offer was for the fourth quarter. If the government had listened, we would now have to dispose of these vaccines, because today everyone has an excess of them, and there are no volunteers for vaccination. It's just a correction. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera in February 2015 said, I quote: nurses have no reason to strike. In 2015, the nurse's salary was 2,3 thousand. Today, I'm looking at the Senator's Facebook page and I see: I support the protests of nurses and locals. Currently, the salary of nurses and midwives on contracts is PLN 50.60 per hour, so it is in my hospital in Jelenia Góra. 50.60 PLN times 160 hours, of course we are talking about contracts, that is 9 000 600 PLN. Minus taxes, minus Zusov's contribution, and it has to be taken into account that we have reduced these taxes or reduced taxes under the Polish Deal, that is within 7 thousand net in the contract. Of course, the contract has its rights, has its pros and has its cons. And then Senator Barbara... I apologize to Beata Małecka, who says, yes, I support the protests of nurses and midwives... But in 2015, the same Member, when she was a Deputy Minister, did not see the need to... Then the nurses' protests were unjustified. I've got a video on the Internet... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: What do you mean, Senator...]] ...and I quoted your specific statement in the media, I think, on the Zet Radio. Play it on the Internet. That's all you can find out. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: So what?]] So what, huh? [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: What are you drinking here, Senator?]] Then the nurses had a need... And today you say that the Prime Minister must speak to protesting nurses when he is appointed to meet the Minister, the Deputy Minister, etc., etc. It's just that, Senator, about what you said and how false this resolution is, which calls on the government to help the health services. This is where the Minister said how many people were studying nursing, medicine under the Platform's rule, and as long as we have increased the number of people who are studying in recent years. 'Cause there's really no HR. We've created several new medical departments. [[Were you listening? In 2015, they were created.]] Please? I know when the departments were created and what is the increase in expenditure. It was you who voted against the Polish Load, which among others. increases expenditure on health care, starting next year. Well, that's the facts. [[You've reduced the amount of money you've spent during the pandemic...]] [[But there's no discussion from the room, Senator.]] [[I ask you to refrain from these interactions. Mr. Senator, don't argue with...]] [[You started it.]] Mr. Szejnfeld said, "Give up your power, we know what needs to be done." Well, a few days ago, with disarming sincerity, helplessness showed Donald Tusk in an interview for Virtual Poland, where he was asked What's your idea of how you're gonna take over? The government of PiS, the evil government of PiS, and in general the evil journalist of Virtual Poland, is guilty that he dared to ask such an inconvenient question. Even your followers said it was a disgrace. Well, I was hoping that if Senator Szejnfeld was so great, he would come and say this, this, this, this, this, this, this, and this. And then all of a sudden, honor, no honor, resign because I know what I'm gonna do, but I'm not gonna say it. Such a cat in a bag after 8 years of your government no one will buy in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: And your...]] Well, Mr. Senator, for now it's the Law and Justice that is the leader of all polls... [[Voice from the room: I wonder why.]] ...and the Civic Platform is 10, 15, 20% Less than Law and Justice. Well, that's the facts. And this isn't a poll of one, two or three, it's objective facts, Mr. Senator. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Get to the point.]] [[Ad rem.]] [[Voice from the room: Ad rem.]] [[To shore.]] [[But don't disturb me.]] [[Please don't disturb me. And you, Senator, once again, do not interact with the room.]] [[Timer signal]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up. Thank you.]] I would also ask the senators not to comment. Because I wasn't commenting, I was commenting on myself. I've been taking notes, I've been writing down, and now I'm back. [[Okay, Mr. Senator. Proceed.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution only serves this simplest policymaking. And I understand that we're politicians and everyone uses the weaknesses of others, but there are things that we should have in common. And we should not play the death of thousands of Poles. And this resolution serves nothing but for the Civic Platform to find a way to bounce 2 or 3 percentage points in the survey. Because there's nothing from this resolution except foaming. Meanwhile, the government is doing a lot of work every day, increasing expenditure. I hope the Minister will say so, in conclusion, because I'm already looking at the watch today. I don't have time. These are concrete actions, specific thousands of pieces of equipment transferred to Polish hospitals from the Material Reserve Agency, thousands of ventilators, thousands of beds, thousands of...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u130	Thank you, Senator. You've exceeded your time by more than one minute. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith. [[Mr. Marshal, as a correction, I would like to add...]] Yes? [[As a correction.]] I put you in the voice. You don't want it in those... [[No, not to the voice. I'm in the middle of a corrigendum.]] There you go, as a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u131	Senator Frost considered my speech or my words shameful. To tell you the truth, it is more important to me that today in Poland 28,000 people have been sick and half a thousand have died than to Senator Mróz that the truth about how power works with protesting citizens, including vulnerable women, is disgraceful. What a horse it is, everyone can see. People who have heard my speech will judge whether you are right or not, speaking of my words, that they are disgraceful. Nor will I say that it could be reversed, and the same can be said of your statements in the context of what is happening during the pandemic. You praise the government and tens of thousands of people He gets sick a day, hundreds of people die a day. And that's what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u132	Thank you very much. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Can I take the floor as a correction? My name came up, too.]] Who else is in charge of the corrigendum? There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I said... [[But let it be a correction, let it not be a repetition of arguments.]] In my speech, I kept to myself the substance and the problems of epidemics and deaths. And if you have no arguments other than personal tours, I'm very sorry, but... We can talk about it this way, but on another subject, not as serious as the epidemic. [[That wasn't a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, do we need to straighten this out? There's nothing to straighten out here. [[No, I just...]] Mr. Senator, I'm not giving you the floor. Senator Rafał The locksmith is now performing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u135	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Senate! Madam President said that the purpose of this resolution was to call on the public to vaccinate themselves. I think to some extent I'm going to carry out this mission by saying I'm triple-inoculated. I really strongly encourage everyone to get vaccinated. I think you'll have to forgive me for that lighter phrase. The word "inaction" is the word that sponsors the draft resolution. It's worth going back a little bit in time. It is 3 January 2020, and at this moment it enters e-prescription with all its power. The Civic Platform requests that the moment of entry of the e-prescription be removed by 2 years. On 28 February, in Lower Silesia, the last branch of the Territorial Defence Army was formed, an oath is taken. The first patient appears on March 4 and a pandemic is announced on March 20. Let's think about what would happen in Poland if we didn't have these 2 tools, which are e-prescription and the Territorial Defence Army. In this way, we will have an answer to the question of what would have happened if the Civic Platform had ruled then. This question was raised during the debate. These 2 tools are tools developed by the Government of Law and Justice. After the pandemic has been declared, the Government of Law and Justice is confronted with a health phenomenon that has not occurred before, but unfortunately it must also confront the unpleasant phenomenon of the opposition to the actions that the Government is taking. And I want to remind you of the behavior we followed here in the Senate. On the one hand, there is disregard for the epidemic. Haven't there been such stories, ladies and gentlemen, in our House, in the Senate? Mr. Marshal's arrival, the Senator's testing, we've all delayed our deliberations. On the other hand, the exaggeration of the threat. Well, the question of the presidential election... We have allegations that there are no ventilators, then that they were wrongly bought; that there are no masks, then that there are bad masks; that there should be laws and not regulations; yesterday we heard that regulations and not laws; that temporary hospitals are empty, that temporary hospitals are overflowing... Ladies and gentlemen, this is the matter with which the government was also confronted for your participation. If you'll all... Well, we have, of course, the issue of the shield, and I'm actually going to give you here that you didn't delay the deadline for introducing the shields. But every bill that came in had, like, 100 million more. Well, if this isn't related to the inflation problem that's now emerging... It is certainly not your merit that this inflation is not higher at the moment, because this is what the State has proposed. But the conclusion that comes from your actions is the constant undermining of trust in the government through your actions. For two years the fight against the pandemic country in this direction has been persistently consistent. I understand that this was the direction calculated for political gain. But, ladies and gentlemen, if at the moment the government is going to convince you to immunize, then also hit your own breasts, that your trust in this government has been reduced. [[Applause]] But there is also the issue of idleness. 'Cause I'm gonna charge you with inaction. It was precisely through the pandemic that the European Union, who had slept through the first months and then tried quite rudely to develop certain tools, that it came to the conclusion that a strong financial package should be stepped in. The European Commission has developed the whole mechanism, the financial instrument. The Polish party to this instrument has developed the Fund for Reconstruction. One element of this fund is the availability and quality of the health benefit system. The state on the other side has influence, they could help the government fight the pandemic, along with the government, seeking payment of these funds. Unfortunately, it's inaction. I thank you for this resolution, for giving you the opportunity to remind you of these events and those actions that have taken place with regard to the pandemic. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u136	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests are gathered in the courtroom! Minister! This resolution can be characterized by three terms: "emptiness," or lack of concreteness; anti-government" is rather obvious when you look at who is signed under it, but the question is whether it is justified; and the third term is rape on numbers, so to speak. The numbers are not in the text of this resolution, but during the discussion we saw what is the basis of your thinking. And that's the third reason I'm speaking. I usually talk about health care, I don't talk about medicine in general, because I just don't know how to talk about it. Note the first prescription or no prescription to heal the situation. Just because she's serious, it's obvious, nobody fights here, doesn't try to say it's okay. We heard from one of the Senators of the Civic Platform: "Give us power, we will show you." But you've already shown it once. This is the famous recipe of Sawicka's envoy for the privatisation of health care. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: This is a scandal.]] Yeah, I think it's a scandal. Making ice cream for privatisation of health services This is an outrage, and this is where I particularly agree with you. [[Voice from the room: And the masks...]] So? And then what? You defended her, but the settlement remained. You were then privatizing not only health care, but also education, police, reducing the presence of the state in the field. It was your way of ruling. But let's get away from it, it's too broad a subject. [[The voice from the room: Right, now it's...]] What's it gonna be... Because it may have been like this, but things have changed, things have changed. After all, this was presented to us by a very outstanding representative, a doctor, which is also familiar with the subject of the Marshal of Grodzki, the Marshal of the Senate. Well, from almost a thousand hospitals close 870, leave 130. Well, that's the prescription! Or maybe it's two of the same recipes, only at different moments and other words. I don't want that prescription. I don't know if our citizens want it. It's for their evaluation, for their judgment. Very curious was the voice of Senator Necessary, who simply admitted his mistake. I was very interested in the question, for example. the liquidation of nursing schools, because it certainly had an impact on what the staff, the number of staff, age, and so on at the moment. But in order for there to be full regret for sins, you have to tell me who took it out. That was the end of the SLD rule. Yes? Yes. Respect that you agree that you're not trying to argue with that. I do not know exactly what it was like, because it was the years 1994 and 1996, whether it was on demand, at the suggestion of the European Union, or it was our own decision, but this is another matter for another discussion. Nevertheless, this is a substantive discussion about health care. Now, a little bit about these numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, since the increase from 2015 and 2016 limits for medical studies Once again: limits, i.e. places, not students, not graduating... Hence, this increase compared to the current year, to the current state, is 52%. And then it was our government, i.e. the rule of law and justice, the United Right, so it would be appropriate to at least partially assign these 52% The United Right, not impute everything to yourself and say that it was possible already in 2015. Well, since it was possible, you should have done it. But here's the thing... There is, of course, a saying: a lie, a presumptuous lie. - Statistics. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, But in general, this statistic becomes more than an insolent lie, not from the statistics themselves, but from the way it is interpreted. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the chart. I hope that it will be visible about health expenditures, these are government data, but I understand that confirmed by the CSO, i.e. objective. In the years 2020... come back, 2010... for 2022 this is the forecast We have a budget, i.e. draft budget, and we can present such data. This linear graph is relative to GDP, and the column graph is absolute, in this case in thousands of zlotys, or actually in billions. And you can see here exactly who and how he treated health care. Here are the years 2010-2015. Between 2010 and 2012, relative increases were virtually zero, there is a horizontal line; absolute increases are, but from 2012 to 2015 there is a flattening of absolute increases. This means that there is virtually no growth at all in absolute numbers, in billions, and the relative growth relative to GDP is decreasing. And this is the legacy you're trying to tell me about. During the years of your reign, 2012, 2015 was a decline, the line goes down. Well, everyone will understand that, and the relative increases are decreasing. In 2015, a change of government. It's still growing. Relative growth shows the red line. Absolute growth, as GDP also grows, is greater. Why? This increase isn't linear, it's practically parabolic, maybe exhibitive, you have to count it. What does that mean? The fact that expenditure on health care has increased since 2015. No matter how charmed it is. Of course, the Eurostat data showed up here, and I have it here, a tweet from Eurostat, according to which in 2020... in 2019 there was a decrease. I'll be waiting, and I'll be waiting. I'm asking the government to explain why, according to our data, there's an increase. And let me remind you that this is a uniform methodology. GUS-owska. However, according to Eurostat, once there was a decline, on November 23rd, this one was given a few days ago on a tweet and was reproduced by one of the newspapers, and here in the room. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you pass on some numbers, it would be good, I would call it, methodically honest and tell you what the reasons are. I'm not saying there's no covid deaths, there's them, as it turns out, from what I've been watching, practically taking, 80,000. But such empathy: most deaths since World War II... That's what you say. And why don't you tell me what else is causing this? And it probably is. In the 1950s, there was a demographic increase in Poland. That high was so to say, blurry, but tall, because it lasted a few years. Ladies and gentlemen, how many years has it been since 1951 until this year? 71 years old. And did you allow this idea that it simply dies out of a generation of the demographic boom, in a natural, biological way? I don't justify here, they're compatible with excess when it comes to COVID, but also not just because of COVID, because they're also due to other diseases. But if you want to be honest, say it to the end. Well, just giving such a number or just a condition is simply dishonest methodologically. Well, that's the last line. You have to explain this empty-mouthed thing, because if you could just leave the empty-mouthed thing without explaining it, it would be empty-headed, squared. The first paragraph of the project is actually saying that the government is guilty. It's clear. It is a pity that it is not said that e.g. with regard to the state of the staff Mostly that's what the first paragraph says. There are others to blame. We've been trying to show you in numbers that our government is guilty of something else. One and a half times the number of medical students is increased, and so is the number of nurses. [[Timer signal]] However... No, I'm not saying that the government, because also local governments... In Opole, where I live, a medical department was established in Opole. It's at the university. The local government worked well here. I can praise him. I don't do that much. In which the Civic Platform of the SLD rules... come back with PSL and the German minority. Yeah, but also the government... [[Senator, look at the clock.]] But now I praise you, Lord... [[Look at the clock.]] Okay, they'll be there. [[Voice from the room: There's no point.]] Good. To be serious, I'd like to say that the first paragraph is about the lack of shots. Well, these are long-term trials, doctors don't educate for 1 year or 2 years, only for 6 years plus specialization time. Well, that period during our reign hasn't even passed. Some of us are taking on the cause, and I agree with that. Yeah, but the other part, the second paragraph... What's the Senate gonna ask for? [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much. You've crossed by a minute...]] He's gonna ask for something we can't really define. [[Mr. Senator, well, you've moved on to lyrics analysis.]] And that's where I end up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u138	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Czudowska. [[Voice from the room: Dorothy.]] Dorota, I'm sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u139	Thank you very much. That's a nice name. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We've been discussing the resolution for hours now. The discussion, which, as my predecessors have tried to present, has proved, is not really practical, and is characterised by a high degree of generality in order only to exist politically. I will refer only to one record in this resolution, with which I absolutely cannot agree, and which is a lie, namely: during the fourth wave of epidemics. When the real management of the epidemic is almost unnoticed. I will merely remind you of the number of newly created ones, the creation is a concept reserved for the creator, for God, the newly created beds for patients infected with COVID, how many single-name hospitals have been created, including those built from scratch, such as. Modular hospital in Legnica, infectious hospital. This is just one example that contradicts the goodwill of the designers, the designers of this resolution. In the speech of the rapporteur's senator, also in the questions and speeches of the senators that I followed through the television screen, such a new sentence is often repeated: bad management of the epidemic. The sentence, the words of the marks, which are to have the power of the shocking government of the Republic of Poland, which have the power to convince the public. In presenting the resolution of the committee, the Senator rapporteur confirmed it by saying that there are doctors in the Health Committee who have great experience, many years of experience in treatment and management. Yeah, that's right. This is where the doctors come in. Well, maybe I'll remind you too. I am a specialist in internal diseases, a specialist in cancer chemotherapy, a specialist in clinical oncology, I have 40 years of professional medical experience, 35 years in management positions. So I'm part of the group that the senator mentioned, but I'm voting against this resolution. Why? I can't agree to such empty resolutions all the time. Because it was not the first such resolution that the government of Law and Justice was devastated, acting with emotions and manipulating the facts that Senator Czerwiński had just proven. We have too many deaths. It's true. I'm terrified of it myself, especially since we're predicting how many more of them are gonna be. If in Poland the average mortality due to COVID-19 infection is around 3%, then only from the last 3 days can we expect about 2 000 deaths in a few weeks, only from the previous 3 days. I'm terrified of it. I'm still working with patients. I convince a lot of people to immunize. I even have feedback from the vaccination points, and they say, "Senator or doctor is chasing patients here for vaccination." I'm convinced, although I know what they're listening to, what they're reading, and why they don't go to these vaccinations. And here I emphasize with all my power once again the excellent observation and what Senator Silencer said: if you hadn't hit our government like this, if you hadn't criticized it all the time, you wouldn't have lowered its rank... How are people supposed to listen to someone who is so constantly humiliated and considered evil, incompetent, etc.? I will also return to what Senator Czerwiński said about the analysis of deaths. I'm not surprised that senators who aren't doctors can empathize with emotions, speak in a painful tone. I don't blame that one. But the doctors? We know that statistics are not allowed to compare year to year. Let's just wait and see what happens in a few years. Epidemiologists and statistics are certainly working on this analysis of excess deaths to analyze We can learn today. Because because of COVID itself, there have been 20 and 30 thousand deaths, i.e. the remaining victims are those who had associated diseases, so it is a matter of poor health of society. But the poor health of society, those who die, and the highest mortality is after the 70th year of age, is already known today as a result of neglect in tens of years. This has not happened under the rule of the Platform, nor under the rule of Law and Justice, the sources would need to be searched for in the times of communion, in access to drugs, in vitamins, in good nutrition. Not enough vaccination. I'll repeat what Senator Silencer said. If we were to speak with one voice and if in all media as in public media to be bored, one could say That's what the people who watch them say, there was an incentive for these vaccinations, and the effect would certainly be better. I will go back to one of the speeches because I listened to the whole debate. It is still coming back to 2019, to the fact that the Health Committee was very brave, because it already held a meeting on 4 February, and the government as if it did not know that there was a pandemic in the world. I'll just remind you: February 2, 1919, the first transport of infected citizens from Wuhan... [[Voice from the room: 2020]] Excuse me, 2019. ...suspects of COVID infection and their two-week observation at a military hospital in Wroclaw. So let's not say that we already knew everything, and the government had no idea what was going to happen and what the SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 virus was. The Minister has given a lot of concrete explanations. These are the places in the centres, the increase in the number of places in the centres in terms of staff training, unlimited services, increased valuation of specialist services It's true, I work, I know it, I count it as a director, these services are now better paid for e-prescriptions, but also e-releases, e-direction, Individual Patient Account, e-Citizen, Quarantine application for those who were sick, and I was, so I know, I used this application. If we hadn't introduced this, the situation would indeed have been much worse today. And let me remind you how Minister Radziwiłł, when he took up his post at the Ministry, took over the management of the Ministry of Health... In 2015, they worked nights after night so that the Union would not take away the money you did not use for e-medicine. On public television... It's a shame you're not watching it, because then you might be even a little bored with it, but you'd know how many expert forecasts, how many tips, how many press conferences of the government on various occasions, on the occasion of opening new hospitals, press conferences specially prepared or organized for someone's order. There's really, really a lot of this. Mr. Marshal, I have a speech. For two more minutes, either you let me finish, or I'll use my time...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u140	No, you still have 40 seconds. [[Which is why I'm saying it's gonna take me so long to tell you what I want to say, so either...]] Then I'll write you down... [[Second time, right?]] Yes. [[Thank you very much.]] ...for five minutes. [[Applause]] Senator Janusz Bladder. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think my speech will be the shortest. I was provoked here by senator locksmith, for whom I have great respect. [[Mine was short, too.]] During today's debate, the question has been raised from this part of the room as to whether we are concerned that there may be violent protests, similar to those in other countries, in the case of the introduction of pandemic-related restrictions. Of course, protests would be directed against the current rulers, who would have introduced sharpenings. Should we really be afraid? And here I'm going to use Kalisz's example. I am a senator from Kalisz, a city in which on 11 November a gathering was held registered as patriotic-religious, during which Kalisz was disgraced with the act of burning the Kalisz Statute, a document of the Jewish community granted by Prince Bolesław Pgodni in 1264. Most of Kalisz reacted in such a way that she blamed the president of the city and the police that they had not solved this march that the president had allowed this assembly. The president explained that you would present him in agreement with the police and concluded that the resolution of this outrageous anti-Semitic assembly could lead to riots. Maybe so, but is that a reason not to take decisive action? I ask this in the context of today's bill and the senator's question as to whether by introducing pandemic restrictions, we will not cause riots among anti-vaccines. Then maybe the numbers in the polls are gonna fall? This is the worst reason not to protect Poles and Poles from the fourth wave of an expanding pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u142	Thank you, Senator. [[Can I ad vocem?]] But about what? What do you want to correct? You're abusing senators... [[Ad vocem.]] There is no ad vocem here, there is only the possibility of correcting. Has your statement been misunderstood? [[Totally wrong, because any possible...]] You're welcome. Please correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u143	Mr. Marshal, concerns about the fact that the people can go out on the street, I link directly to the decline in the effectiveness of the fight against the pandemic. People contact each other and the virus can be passed on. I'm not connecting it to any other context.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u144	Thank you very much. In fact, it was a corrigendum. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Listening to today's debate a little remotely, a little bit here in the courtroom, I have to say I don't know if that was the idea of the people making the draft resolution. The debate on the resolution turned into a debate on the state of the healthcare system in the country. First of all, I would like to thank the Government of Law and Justice, and I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for not capitulating in the situation which is in Poland related to the pandemic. I would like to thank the Ministers of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski and the former Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, for all the measures that have been taken in connection with the growing epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that no government is able to stop the virus, both the government in Poland and the governments in the world, whether in Europe or in other countries of the world. The virus is that whatever we do, it's going to be. So you can't do... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sorry, I'm not done yet. That's maybe a little bit of a statement... You can't charge us with having a fourth wave or something. The government, I believe, does everything according to the situation. I remember how in the previous waves the state held conferences of various kinds and there were speeches: no tests, no vaccines. And all the time you attacked that these vaccines for Polish citizens, for the people of our country, would run out. Well, it turns out that no tests are done up to 100,000 a day, that there are enough vaccines. You were talking about ventilators. Respirators for Today There's enough, too. And what else did the government do? After all, the government did not look with its hands on what was happening, that citizens were sick and dying, but made a dramatic and difficult decision to turn hospitals into one-name hospitals. I myself experienced this in the Podlasie voivodship, when the hospital in Łomża was transformed into a single name hospital, with these protests, etc. But the government has made tough decisions. Outside of hospitals, he created temporary hospitals. I am sorry that I am speaking to the state, but I am talking to the people who tabled this draft resolution. There is still criticism about temporary hospitals and indicating that at the National Stadium it is a mistake at all, etc., etc., indicating supplements for health professionals working directly on covid wards, and finally these planes... So the return of Poles to the country, and even the fact that someone felt threatened at that time... Well, that's all the action... The government, according to my opinion, 'cause your assessment can be of course different 'cause it did a lot, even a lot in this regard. What the government of Mr. Donald Tusk and Minister Ewa Kopacz were doing when the pandemic... Fortunately, with a mortality rate of 0,1% , not 2%, as is the case with this pandemic Avian influenza AH1N1? Well, Mrs. Kopacz said in May 2009: "Sleep quietly, work calmly, enjoy the spring. Everything's under control. You didn't say... What was the narrative about vaccination and all that stuff back then? You could say a lot, but I don't want to repeat the arguments put forward here by my colleagues, so I'm going to end with this statement: you ask what the government did in the fight against the coronavirus, what it did with the vaccine promotion, and I think we should ask ourselves what we did, especially in terms of promoting vaccination, and what else we can do about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I try to avoid baseless criticism and radical criticism. Here, in my opinion, the essence of the matter is not some general assessment of government policy, but at the moment we are at it. And I must say that today's exchange of views between me and the Minister representing the health department was very representative of this problem. We already have some experience, there is a fourth wave and there are very clear data that in the case of an identical number of diseases. comparable between Poland and Great Britain e.g. The mortality rate in Poland is 2 times higher. And it's worth asking... It's not just worth asking, but it's our duty. We have the right to ask what your strategy is, what your views are, how you want to react. You have promised a power that will be much more effective, which will overcome imposibilism, which will provide more care, far more care than in Western Europe. And if we're talking about public television, then I'll mention that it provides information about the collapse of this world. I feel like France and Germany won't be here any minute. Meanwhile, in this corrupt civilization, power has the courage to act, and certainly has the courage to say what it wants. In France, a covid passport is introduced which entitles you to be present in public places, and in Austria solutions are much tougher. And please note that I also say this to my colleagues in Law and Justice that we do not really know what the Ministry of Health wants, because the Minister of Health asks me if he is in favour of a covid passport giving permission to be present in public places, he does not answer. Well, if he had said that he didn't, because, as the law and justice colleagues suggested, this is not socially acceptable, we would be dealing with a clear situation. But we don't know what the government's gonna do. You don't know what you're gonna defend in two weeks, what policy you're gonna defend in two or three weeks. This is not known at all, and this is the basis of public discussion, the basis of responsibility. And please note that I did not ask what is the position of the Council of Ministers or the President of the Council of Ministers, but I asked what is the opinion of the Ministry, which is directly responsible for health protection. And I didn't hear the answer. So don't be surprised that the Senate is taking action on this matter, that it is taking a resolution initiative in a situation where power has no courage to express its views. And the courage to express your views is a fundamental prerequisite for public discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u148	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! We are discussing whether the resolution proposed by the Senate on the current state of health protection is necessary. After all, today Minister Niedzielski in one of the radio stations announced that it is already visible that the rate of infection is falling. Today, when we have seen 28,000 128 cases of infections and 497 deaths, the most so far, the Minister of Health says: dynamics is falling. Yeah, you could say dynamics are dropping. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there were 28,000 380 infections, which means today is a little over 200 less. That's a 0.8% drop. Not even 1%. But the minister forgets that the deaths were 460, and there's 37 more, almost 10% more. More. Minister, why are you making such a gruesome joke about the citizens? Why are you joking with Poles and Poles in such a gruesome way, saying that this dynamic is falling even though there are 500 deaths? Today you should start and finish this interview at the radio station, saying: I apologize to all citizens for not being able to carry out my duties in protecting Poles and Poles. You're saying there's about 60% vaccinated citizens. I don't know how many there are. Yesterday, one of the television stations, specifically TVN, showed an organized practice of falsifying vaccination certificates. I repeat, organized. I ask publicly: how many people in Poland are actually vaccinated? What's the government's response? A second ago, I went to the National Health Fund. I was convinced that I would read there in news reports about the immediate start of the inspection not only at this particular point of vaccination, but also at random in others, so that we could check the scale of this dramatic phenomenon, such that there are citizens in Poland who have not been vaccinated and have a certificate and are in the state system, in the register of vaccinated persons. I read the National Health Fund messages, the latest three, ladies and gentlemen, and the first of these messages is: in connection with the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 point 32 on the provision of health care information on the amount of refundable foodstuffs of special importance. Second message: made available new publication of commercial dictionaries, version 303. Third message: for healthcare providers... I thought, this is definitely where the control information will be. And here's what I read in this communication: due to changes in medical devices, we inform you about the amendment of the regulation on the list of medical devices and services on the production environment, to which new recommendations will be applied... You make jokes with Poles. You do not perform your basic duties, and when systemic irregularities are revealed, you inform about changing the codes of foodstuffs of special importance, use. Do your duty! What's this data look like? Does the level of vaccination affect the health status of Poles? The European Commission has published data and Eurostat has recently published data. It is worth recalling this data in both cases. Let's start with Eurostat data. My previous speakers used different charts here, and I will also be happy to use them. This is a graph based on Eurostat data. The description of these data is extreme deaths from March 2020 to September 2021. I also have a more detailed version. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we have in this data? I read: Poland is the country where the highest number of excess deaths occurred from all European Union countries. Average monthly mortality increase from March 2020 to August 2021, expressed in percentage We take into account this increase in relation to earlier years, before the pandemic, i.e. from the years 2016 and 2019 in Poland 23% , while the EU average is 12%. There are countries that have a few percent. These are real data and I would very much like you to refer to these data if you say you care about the health of Poles. Does the level of vaccination have an impact on the health of Poles? We are reaching for further figures, this time the European Commission, which announced them in November this year. Ladies and gentlemen, vaccination rates in Malta, Portugal and Ireland exceed 90%. The number of deaths in these countries is: in Malta, 0, in Portugal, 10 cases per million inhabitants, in Ireland, 15. In Poland, I remind you, at this time it is With a level of implantation of approximately 62% and 49 deaths. That's where I'd like to cheer you up. They're worse than us, yes, they're worse than us, Romania and Bulgaria. Romania has 43% vaccinated and 267 deaths, Bulgaria. 29% And 325 deaths per million inhabitants. These data clearly indicate that the rate of vaccination is absolutely related to the number of deaths. Can you analyze and learn from this data? I don't use secret data. Go to the European Commission, go to Eurostat. These are public data. It has just been said here that one of the causes of this crisis is that the opposition has undermined confidence in the government and today the government has a weak position, a weak authority. And how did you, for a change, build this authority and willingness to cooperate with the opposition? Jarosław Kaczyński on 7 April in an interview with the Polish Gazeta: The opposition is a group of people who say about themselves that it is a total opposition. It's the cancer of Polish politics. Unbelievable damage. Well, that's an amazing incentive to cooperate with the leader of the largest political party. The same Jarosław Kaczyński in October in the Seym debate: You are criminals. You can yell at each other, it's addressed to the opposition. The same Jarosław Kaczyński in an interview for the weekly Network: Today I can answer with the quote of a famous meme in which I turn to heaven and in which I say: "Lord, I asked for a stupid opposition, but you overreacted. Actually, it's an outstretched hand to cooperate with the opposition during the pandemic. I don't want to quote a few more leaders of the United Right, and I have here... No, I'll give you another one. Ryszard Terlecki commented on the opposition's position on the changes in the policy of offences, which is already a concrete response to the opposition's proposal. Asked about opposition charges, he replied: "No, stupid opposition, in every case says the same thing. This is your dialogue with the opposition. So today everyone who says that you have an outstretched hand and you want to cooperate is saying the wrong thing, and, frankly, they're just lying, because the hand you've had, you've shown on this case many times. I'm going to end ironically: yes, I am calling for us to rebuild this trust in the government that has been called upon in this Chamber. For two years of fighting a pandemic, this government has shown that it can! Although there were no ventilators and masks, he bought a ventilator from an arms dealer. True, without certificates, guarantee cards, several times overpaid, but bought! He bought masks and helmets from a friend of the ski instructor and an oscypnik dealer from Krupówki, although these masks did not have certificates, so those people using them could have gotten infected, but he bought them! Please and I appeal, let's believe this government, and as the old proverb says, we'll look like Zabłocki on soap. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u150	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor... What's his name? [[Christopher.]] ...Mr. Christopher Frost. There you go, Mr. Senator. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's a shame Senator Kwiatkowski left so soon... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Oh, I'm sorry, this is where somebody went out... I, too, could quote a lot of statements from the leader of the Civic Platform, Budki, today Donald Tusk, about law and justice policies, about the rule of law and justice, very critical opinions, sometimes offensive, sometimes malicious. Of course, we can go through these quotes and each of us will be right to quote different kinds of statements. But I wouldn't want the other part... Taking to heart the statement of the Marshal leading not to refer to other statements, only to consider the merit of this proposed resolution, a resolution which would theoretically have... I don't know. I mean, technically, it's about government action in the fight against the coronavirus. And this government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who had to face such things, that if someone had told us about them two years ago, we would have treated it as a scenario of science fiction movie, because no one expected something like this. Not like the Senator's actions, who put forward a draft of some resolution that doesn't make any sense. These activities are the delivery to Polish hospitals, yes, those hospitals managed by local governments of all political, seymical, district, municipal options, because we have several such, also university, government... These are specific things in a pandemic. 7,000 ventilators, which were delivered to Polish hospitals, 25 CTs, 115 X-rays, 2.8 thousand high-flow oxygen therapy apparatus... [[How many locomotives?]] ...85 ultrasound cameras, 7.2,000 hospital beds, 13,000 cardio monitors, 2.5 million liters of fluids, 700 million protective masks, 300 million gloves, 6 million suits, etc. This is the specific equipment that was delivered from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency to Polish hospitals. Of course, we can ask, just like you here, Senator of the Civic Platform, how many locomotives. Very funny, Mr. Senator, a very cool question in the context of health care and in the context of the fight against the coronavirus. That is the difference between Law and Justice and the opposition that we are trying to help specifically, specifically to help hospitals, specifically to help people, to have a rapid vaccination system... [[You guys are great at helping...]] Yes, Mr. Senator Blackbay, how funny is that? Today, anyone who wants can inoculate free of charge, so, anyone who wants can inoculate free of charge. Of course, some Poles do not want to vaccinate themselves. We convince, encourage, gently force vaccination, maybe there will be further restrictions, but we do not want riots on the streets, such as in the Netherlands, in Paris or in various cities of Austria. We just want to be positive about the attachments. In this you should help, you should encourage your constituents, for whom you are authorities, for whom you have the respect to increase this rate of vaccination. [[Ask if we can help...]] But, Senator... [[Timer signal]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry...]] Yes. Excuse me. And you, Mr. Senator, I asked you not to interact in the course of your speech, not to argue with the opinions of your previous speeches, because it is obvious, but please don't interact. Mr. Marshal, one sentence at the end. [[There you go.]] We should all want more and more Poles to be vaccinated. This is our task, politicians, and I hope that at least in this regard, you will help to encourage Poles to do so. And such resolutions as today, if they are adopted, of course we are aware that they will be printed in the Official Journal, because these are legal provisions. They're really not gonna help anybody. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska. Second time, five minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Only one correction to my previous statement: the infection actually started not in February 2019 but in 2020, time flies fast. And I will refer briefly before I present the end of my speech to Senator Kwiatkowski's statement. Senator, before you start criticizing Minister Niedzielski for his statement today, with all due respect for your knowledge, please read the concept, see what dynamics mean in the context of infection. That's it. In the previous speeches of the senators, also at the meeting of the Health Committee, there were such voices that there was no oncology during the COVID pandemic, no heart attacks, reduced access to specialists. We need to clear up here and straighten things out. Let me remind you that oncology and pediatrics were never excluded from their primary activities and at the beginning, including the hottest period of the first pandemic wave, in spring 2020, such hospitals were not converted into single name hospitals. First contact doctors could have been working remotely, we weren't working remotely. Yes, it was possible to give advice remotely, it was about interpreting the results or asking patients any questions, but most of the advice we gave in institutions. Of course, there was also a period of suspension of preventive research, especially mammography. There were allegations that during the pandemic the number of mammograms decreased. It's true, it's been a few weeks without research, but it's for the purpose of keeping the clinics at a distance, limiting the meeting of a large number of people. At that point we thought, and it is right that it is better to put off this preventive mammography, I'm talking about preventive, because these diagnostics were done all the time. .. rather than expose more patient groups in the waiting rooms of doctors to become infected. It said there were fewer DiLO cards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, journalists can interpret it at the discretion of the public as they know it, but we should be talking about facts. We were oncologists, too. Just because there were no recommendations for oncology to stop receiving patients doesn't mean that all the troops were working in full steam because there were periods when entire units were excluded from treatment because of the illness of the staff. You don't have to look far. We didn't work for almost two months last year at the facility I run. I was in quarantine first, then I was sick, then there was my isolation, and then the other employees got sick enough that they couldn't do business in the facility for two months. During that time we had paid by the National Health Fund, whether we worked or not, 1/12 of the contract affected our account. As I calculated how much DiLO cards we spent at that time, it came out proportionally less than the two months we didn't work in. And let me remind you that by August, 232 doctors and 188 nurses died, so there is also a decrease in access to specialists. Finally, one more such... you lied in the discussion. It's either a short memory or a bad will. That the Minister of Health had never taken part in the proceedings of the Health Committee. It's just not true, and I want everyone to know it, and so is the public opinion. In February there was a very important meeting about the organisation of vaccination centres and then Minister Niedzielski himself was on our committee. So repeating that the minister didn't show up is just unworthy of senators. Dear Senators, you have not given us power, do not call us to resign now... [[Timer signal]] You lost your power in the 2015 and 2019 elections and it was democratic elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u154	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lech Czarnobaj. [[Voice from the room: Leszeka.]] Leska Czarnobaj, I'm sorry. There you go. First time? [[Voice from the room: 1st.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After listening to this debate, I will change my speech a little bit, but I would like to highlight one part of the speech here, once again. In any activity in public space, the essence of things is having a strategy of action. What can be briefly called a pandemic strategy? Because that's all I'm gonna do. You remember Minister Pinkas and what he said in this room? Let's play Chinese, buy Chinese and other things, and I won't say it again. Here, in this room, it's gone. And today, what are your strategies? Let's not do anything, let's see what happens, maybe the pandemic dies. Otherwise, there will be social protests, and we don't want social protests. As you were referring to social protests, this is where Senator Szejnfeld showed. But I return to the fact that you have to have a strategy of action and on the basis of this strategy, in cooperation with people who have experience and knowledge, build a tactic of action. This is the management element of the Scout Team, and you're talking about a pandemic. You are preparing black moments for Poles. Because this is not an invention of opposition, these are the facts that Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about here. Anyone can read about it. Do you remember that situation when, under the rule of the Civic Platform, journalists made a provocation and called Gdansk, to the court, asking to speed things up? That was when the influence of Prime Minister Donald Tusk was invoked. And you were right to criticize it because it was reprehensible. You were charging me back then. Is it right or wrong, it's already a matter of your assessment The government of the Civic Platform and PSL. After all, you've been saying like a mantra that these are court-martials on the phone, and so on. But let's refer this to the current pandemic situation. Today or yesterday, there was a report on the left vaccinations. You were talking about a theoretical state. And what is the present state? How do the services of this country work? What is the question of discernment, what is happening in the vaccination market? Let's look into it. Let's listen to this story. It's not even a country made of paper, it's a complete lack of state. Anything you can do, you can even cheat the state. It's in this report. The question that probably arises in your heads is, what does the government have to do with this? The government is responsible for everything that happens in the Republic of Poland, just as Donald Tusk was responsible for the provocation against this judge. And we say the same thing you said. Who's got servants to see if everything's okay? After all, the reporters got to it and made a report out of it. What do Polish servants do? I'll tell you what they're doing. Well, you have to fight the opposition, all those protests. Where were the police then? Where were the servants? Where were those batons? Well, they were somewhere. After all, what is happening here is a tragedy for the Polish health system and for vaccination actions. And you say: Poles, nothing happened. This is a disaster. Now who's picking it up? Service? No, it was detected by independent media. Can you imagine what would happen if there were only TVP PiS in Poland? Well, they'd be showing us we bought... [[Television Trwam...]] Television Trwam. Okay, I'm adding. There's only what we saw in the Polish People's Republic. I'm gonna go back to a few speeches in a minute. At the time, we watched the same thing: all the time success, no bad things. And the role of independent media is just to see these things, to alarm them when things happen. And that's the power of democracy. It's an independent media. Also during the pandemic, maybe even mostly in various crisis situations, such things need to be shown. It doesn't matter what power is. Now you are in power and this is shown. This is done to make Poles feel safe, but also to participate in the process of building security. You are showing this to Senator Czerwinski, the majority of your speeches, as well as Senator Mroz's speech. That so much went to education, so much for health care... You show charts, beds, ventilators. Whether they're good or bad, you buy them. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the essence of activity in public space is efficiency. And what do you do best? What's so fantastic about finance? You know what? Giving away money, especially yours, is fantastic. I'm not gonna give you any examples so I don't waste my time. You know them. [[Voice from the room: We don't know.]] I'll tell the senator at break. When it comes to efficiency... And what is the measure? Pandemic efficiency? Number of cases, mortality, etc., etc. Is there any efficiency in Poland in this field? Senator Kwiatkowski showed the data. Don't be offended, there are governments who do better and worse. It's unfortunate. Poles do a few things right: you suppress protests Well, praise you for it; you give good money for yours, and you do good. But when it comes to efficiency in relation to health, look at the parameters concerning health of Poles and mortality. As for the issue raised by Senator Mroz, who said that what is happening here is science fiction, I will say that science fiction is what you are presenting here. I'm not going to go into details anymore, but I'm going to give you some examples because they're fantastic. Senator Mr. Frost's main motto is: people die everywhere. Everywhere, well, everywhere. The Pandemic is everywhere. One of the senators said the virus knows no boundaries, and he crosses them. Well, there's really nothing to do, because he's gonna go anywhere, which is everywhere, people die everywhere. And they will die, say the senator. And he adds that he does not know what the President is talking about here, Senator Małecka-Libera. I mean, nurses make a gross of $9,000 600. I've written it down. I don't really understand why these nurses are protesting in a white town, either. 9,000 600 zlotys is quite a decent salary. Why are they protesting there? To have less? Maybe more? And Senator Locksmith's statement. I had the following two impressions. The e-prescription and the Territorial Defense Army saved the disease. Well, Mr. Senator, I'm not questioning either the increase in expenditures or the improvement in management activities, etc. I'm not questioning that. These are facts. But saying, and you know what would have happened if it hadn't been... Well, how do you know what would happen? Since you are such a clairvoyant, Senator, tell us what needs to be done when it comes to the future, so that we can improve the effectiveness of care, health care management, so that fewer Poles die, less ill, etc., etc. Well, you're asking us, what would you like? I think if someone listened to Senator Malecka-Libera's speech, he heard what he was saying. If you want, in the next speech for 5 minutes, I can say what I think should be done again, so that you can hear it, because it might be worth repeating it a few times. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, a few elements... With a question mark, you said honesty. This is a very difficult thing to say that in one group they are only honest and in the other they are dishonest. That's not what I'm gonna bet on. But I'm able to bet dollars against peanuts that in Law and Justice they're all honest. You have an elementary honesty gene. That's my point, Mr. Senator, because these are facts. And when you look at what's going on in the sense of giving away money especially for yours, building family policy on yours, etc., it's a fantastic honesty gene. [[Timer signal]] Unfortunately, I'm done... Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u156	Thank you. Please take the floor... [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Uh-huh, corrigendum mode. I thought you were gonna say... [[Senator Czarnobaj didn't understand what I said, but I'm not going to try to explain it to him.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u157	The senator didn't understand what I said either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say to you that nothing else, as far as you are concerned, was not expected to be corrected, for which I thank you very much and wish you all the best. [[A voice from the hall: We too wish all the good things.]] [[Voice from the room: Health.]] Yes, health too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u159	Thank you. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u160	I would like to say that the situation is bad with regard to COVID, and here I don't think anyone would discuss it, regardless of what the relationship between some senators and this resolution is. This resolution makes it possible to discuss this situation. The situation is, I'd say even bad. We already have experience, us doctors, the ministry, in the second year of the pandemic. It's not like at first we didn't really know how she was going to develop, who's going to get sick, and if she's going to end in a month, two, maybe a year. Now we all see that the pandemic continues and it takes the form of another wave. It is very important that the government, the Government of Law and Justice, do what the government does. And governance isn't just about deciding the right things, making decisions that will be applauded by everyone, but it's a duty to protect health, to protect life, to protect people even against part of society. It is not up to us to decide what restrictions will be imposed. And what should be introduced? Well, that's clear. Everybody's got covid passports all around. Some countries have also introduced lockdown: Slovakia, Austria. And all the other countries, the Czech Republic, the countries south and west of us have introduced covid passports. Even in Moscow, there are covid passports. Well, there isn't in Belarus. It can't be that you save yourself. The government has to run it. The opposition can help, but it cannot replace the rulers here. The direct responsibility for what is happening, what is going to happen, lies with the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister. It's a responsibility. Also personal. So I'm watching, and I'm surprised that first there's a suggestion from the Minister of Health that there's gonna be a covid passport bill, even... Then there is the Parliamentary Act, of course, as a result of some action by the Minister of Health probably, which was to be, this law does not exist, the Minister of Health therefore, I understand, says: the situation is not so bad, there has been stabilisation. What stabilization? Yesterday about 28,000 diseases, today about 28,000. Well, just a few hundred people less registered as sick. People died today more than yesterday, about 500. What stabilization? It's clear to me now. I'm not a statistics specialist in health care, but I know that if there's such a high mortality rate, either these actions are ineffective, or there's a lot more disease. And that's why mortality is so high in relation to diseases that are recorded. What happens if the government doesn't decide to take action that reduces the transmission of the disease to the non-vaccine population, and the dynamics increase? As a result, lockdown will have to be put in place, there will be a hit on the economy. I don't know... Yeah, we're gonna get through this lockdown, we're gonna pull ourselves together. That's the consequence. But is it worth going in this direction? We must encourage everyone, talk to everyone, including representatives, with the hierarchs of the Catholic Church. Is there still a joint committee of government and the Church? After all, you have to try to engage... ask the Church to appeal. Of course, I appeal to you, test yourselves, if you have any symptoms, do not wait for them to pass, but we have institutions in Poland that have a significant position and are very reliable. Talk to the hierarchs of the Church. You can't just leave it like that. I think that the appeal of all of us, and especially of the authorities, a clear assessment that it's not good that it's bad, can make some of the uninjected people decide to immunize themselves. The problem is that part of society unfortunately no longer listens to appeals, so we need to take some action that will make those who do not get on a plane, who do not get into a coffee shop, who do not go into a restaurant, who do not go to a movie theater or to a theater. Well, there's no other advice. The opposition is not responsible for the current situation. The government is responsible for her. And it's just about the government making decisions. It's possible he'll lose on it. But so what? That's why the Poles gave this government a mandate to do their job. This is all important, but, ladies and gentlemen, credibility is also important, it is important to speak with one voice, it is important to draw conclusions. Pandemics go after uninsected, but those who have been vaccinated at the beginning and are not vaccinated enter the risk group. So we could be in a situation where there's gonna be a snowball. A few people will be vaccinated, but those who have been vaccinated before and who do not become vaccinated will be sick. It is important to remember that this is not just a matter of non-vaccination. Finally, I would like to say that some conclusions must be drawn, even if they are difficult. If we look at the geography of the uninjected, we'll see the southeast crescent. You can see who's dominating whose electorate it is. But you must stop being afraid of your electorate, which may be dissatisfied, now it may be dissatisfied, but in the future, if you save or save a lot of people's lives, it will praise you. [[Timer signal]] And finally. If the Minister and the Medical Council believe that further action must be taken, the introduction of covid passports, and the government does not decide to do so, this is one council for the Minister, because he will be responsible for this: resign, because this is the final protest. Everyone will understand that this is a protest. This discussion, I hope, will encourage the government, the minister, to act decisively. Stop waiting for this to solve itself, that the pandemic problem will solve itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Orzechowska in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers have already made it clear that this is a political resolution, because the only goal is to take over power and that our government resigns. It's okay that there's no idea of governance, it's nothing that my previous government almost destroyed an infectious unit, which is currently a covid unit, and it's saving the whole hospital's situation, it's nothing that these vaccination measures are being carried out. We work on the spot with patients and these patients we save, while the so-called ideas. politicians and only politicians who sometimes have very little to do with health care and who actually care about Poles... Because if they cared, they would do anything to make EU funds come to Poland, not vote against the money they have for us from the Union, actually without any grace, to come within this anti-covid shield. They do everything to bring migrants to us, not refugees from the regime, but migrants who can afford expensive trips, expensive clothes that are actually used in this war by Lukashenka and are to be supported by our esteemed opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, let us end these disputes, let us stop dealing with the obstruction of life of Poland and Poles. Let's all start acting on one front, not like hypocrites. One of our famous senators said he didn't necessarily know the meaning of the word And not like those who say different things and do different things, but those who fight for Poland and Poles, for Poland and for Poles. That's why I'm against this resolution, because it's just making a storm in a glass of water. I wish everyone all the best, above all health. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u163	Thank you, Senator. You too, I wish you health. Please take the floor of Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The length and intensity of this discussion shows that this resolution brought to the meeting of the High Senate was needed because Poles need a debate about whether our health services work well, as you say or even quote one of you, optimally or, especially during a pandemic that has already consumed more than 82 thousand Polish lives, works badly, as we say, and needs a profound improvement. In fact, this dispute between us determines the reality, the facts, the numbers of what it is. Today there were 497 deaths in Poland. Senator Kwiatkowski has already spoken about the conclusion of this very sad period of pandemic. With regard to excess deaths from March 2020 to September 2021, unfortunately Poland is in the first place in the European Union. Let's just reach for the latest data from today's summit of the fourth, not the first, not the second, but the fourth wave of the pandemic: Poland - 497 deaths, Italy - 83. If we change this in proportion to the number of both countries, if we had health care and public policy protecting the health of Poles at Italian level, we would have 55 deaths today, almost 10 times less. In Spain, where there is the highest rate of vaccination in the European Union, 90% There were 34 deaths. In Poland, it would be 27 deaths in proportion, almost 20 times less. Of course, there are also countries as west as less effective, e.g. The Netherlands, there were 54 deaths, but in Poland there would be 100, 102 deaths today, which is 5 times less than there really is. And those are the facts, with them, Dear Lords, let's not discuss, let's discuss how to change it, how to improve it. I want to return here to our previous debates on this subject. The Senate was the institution of the Polish state in which the debate on how to fight the pandemic began before this pandemic reached Poland. Thank you very much, especially the Committee on Health, because already in January and February 2020, the committee chaired by Senator Małecka-Libera was watching this issue. We have also discussed these issues several times in the High House, the last time on 4 August, almost 4 months ago. And let me tell you that I think I know why our esteemed fellow senator and vice-minister of health, who usually took part in these debates, Mr Waldemar Kraska, is not with us today. At that time, we had with him, not just me, a few more people, an honest conversation in which we appreciated some of the government's moves and planned actions, but we also made it clear what needs to be done. And you had to do two things, I mean. radically increase the rate of vaccination and introduce sharpenings, not lockdowns, sharpenings that would slow down the rate of epidemic streams during the fourth wave, i.e. what almost all other countries of Europe have done with much better results than we have. We didn't do it. Then, on August 4, 4 months ago, Deputy Minister Kraska, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, said: "We are watching the situation in other countries. In fact, there are some restrictions that are excluded from the vaccinations. That probably also motivates those people to inoculate. And then we're talking about it, especially in the Medical Council, which is still working with you in the prime minister. We do not rule out such restrictions. So? Nothing. Nothing. Why? Because the professionals that I consider to be Senator and Minister Kraska are not being listened to in this government. They're not being listened to in this government. Nothing's been done. Then again, Minister Kraska spoke in response to our questions: the case is open, we still have a few weeks to decide. So? These few weeks have not been used, the next few weeks have not been used, we have four months since this conversation, nothing has been done. And that's why today, unfortunately, we have 5, 10, 20 times higher levels of deaths compared to Western European countries, which, first, have vaccinated, secondly, have introduced point-by-point, I say: point-to-point, these are not lockdown sharpenings. The ones that allow people who are vaccinated to live normally, and those who do not want to be vaccinated because of their different fixations, normal lives are limited. And why is this government acting like this, ladies and gentlemen? Well, because he's a hostage to people who can't be called anti-vaccines, what they call themselves, just pro-epidemics, people who are really angels of death. Like one member of your club in the Sejm, or a Member who did parliamentary interventions in children's homes where teenagers were vaccinated. These are the Angels of Death, because it is because of them and by the political pressure they put on this government, and this government has bowed before it, today we have the highest rate of dying people in Europe. [[Voice from the room: Women's Strike.]] High Izbo, why is that? Here we can use another quote, a quote from the Prime Minister's advisor, Mr Maliszewski, who, in response to the intergovernmental discussion that we know because of the known e-mail leak due to the carelessness with which the state documents in this government are given in dangerous media, was talking about the strategy or lack of a government strategy in this way: Further fear only causes discouragement and lack of trust in the government. Mr Maliszewski, Prime Minister's advisor. And that is the reason why you inefficiently fight for the number of vaccinations and inefficiently impose the necessary sharpenings for those who do not vaccinate. Because for you, the pillars and trust in the government stand above human life. Those environments where you're hostages say they're free. The main freedom of man is the right to live, to live. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, because of incompetence and flattering the angels of death inside your coalition in Poland, more people die several times, and sometimes ten times more people than in countries where people are governed by knowledge, wisdom and courage. I hope that there is not a long time in Poland when such a government will also arise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u165	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech will be very brief and this, surprisingly, will not be a criticism, just an appeal. This will be an appeal for determination, for the government to decide what option it chooses to fight the pandemic. You can move between two variants. One option is the Belarusian option, the second option is the Austrian one. There might be a Swedish on the way, there might be another one. Do you know what the Belarusian option is? Lukashenka said that the most effective way to fight COVID is vodka and cucumbers. And there people just live, they get used to COVID, they die... Lukashenka simply assumed that she would die, let's say, 4% Belarusian society. There were more deaths during the war. So this is the Belarusian option. Now the Austrian option, do you know what it is? Total lockdown and very strong sharpening. I still remember the moment when the first death occurred. Remember? Then there was panic, we were all panicked. One death made us all scared. Today, this death has come to pass. Do you remember not being allowed into the woods? Remember? Do you remember a ticket for a woman with a constitution going out there? under the Constitutional Tribunal, has she been detained and punished by a mandate? We just bounce from wall to wall. So my appeal is not a criticism, it is a request for a decision: the Belarusian or Austrian option? Anything specific. ♪ And to the end ♪ A little private. Because you were talking about ideas when it comes to fighting a pandemic. My personal case: I was vaccinated with Astra; I did a test for antibodies 2 weeks ago. So my one very simple idea of fighting a pandemic is for the ministry to shorten the time between the last dose and the third dose I want to inoculate. I have a deadline. Somewhere in the middle of January, it's still a long time. Can this cut back on time? That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u167	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Poor, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Kopiczko submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Does the government representative want to respond to the legislative proposal and take the floor?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To those content that fell, I mostly responded in my speech. I can only refer to one more thing. This will be as an addition to the I.e. to information relating to certificates which are issued incorrectly in this respect. For several months now, the National Health Fund has been working closely with the bodies appointed for this purpose. So that, if necessary, those senators who asked for it, such information in writing will be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 552, and the report of the Commission In print No 552 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the amendment of the Energy Law of 29 October adopted by the Sejm. Following the review of the law at its meeting on 17 November, the committee requests the adoption of a law with 3 amendments. The aim of the Act is to minimise increases in the price of gas fuel for households, increases resulting from a dynamic increase in gas fuel prices on the European market, this is independent of us, simply prices have jumped sharply, prices not only of gas but also of oil, coal and other energy raw materials, while ensuring that energy companies are able to recover costs related to the supply of gas fuel. The Act allows energy undertakings to benefit from a specific, temporary and optional tariff approval regulation calculated on the basis of part of the cost of justified gas fuels planned to be increased for the duration of the tariff. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the mechanism adopted by the Act guarantees energy companies the possibility of recovering the costs actually incurred. According to the transitional provision with regard to the tariff for the marketing of gaseous fuels approved before the date of entry into force of the novel and to the applications for approval of the tariff for the marketing of gaseous fuels submitted before the date of entry into force of the novel and until that date, not considered, the provisions of Article shall be applicable in the Energy Law. 62f provided that the energy undertaking has submitted a request for a tariff change or an adjustment to the application for tariff approval within 14 days of the entry into force of the amendment. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, in order for the tariff introduced in the light of the new provisions to apply from 1 January, that tariff would have to be published by 17 December 2021 at the latest. In the Seym, 387 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, 54 Members abstained. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Then thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Marek Suski was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? Are you an MP? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: You're the minister.]] At present, senators may report from a place lasting no more than a minute of inquiry to an authorised representative... [[Voice from the hall: Yet a representative of the government...]] At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to an authorised representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I have not yet given the Minister a chance to speak on the bill under consideration. Would the Minister like to comment on this? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Mr. Marshal...]] Do you prefer from the place or here, on the platform? 'Cause they're sometimes... [[Voice from the room: Please, if you don't mind...]] We invite you, Minister, to the podium. Hello, Mr. Ireneus profit, representative of the government for renewable energy sources, secretary of state at the Ministry of Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of Minister of Climate and Environment to the draft law on amending the Energy Law. The law as a parliamentary draft was adopted by the Sejm at its 40th meeting on 29 October 2021. We are currently working in the Senate on print number 552, which concerns this bill. First of all, I would like to point out that this law perfectly fits into the current discussion on natural gas prices and the fight against the price increases of this raw material. The very high prices of natural gas on European exchanges are due to a number of factors, including, above all, another ruthless attempt by Gazprom to blackmail European countries in order to make concessions in the pipeline certification process. Nord Stream II. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has repeatedly warned European partners about the policy of domination of the Russian Federation, the use of raw materials as tools to implement this policy, also expressed in Gazprom's decisions. This is the use of dominant market power in supply as an instrument for exerting pressure on European countries, both Central and Eastern Europe and As it turns out at the moment, Western Europe. Unfortunately, the current situation confirms our concerns. Gazprom artificially lowers the amount of gas delivered to European countries, affecting the price increase of this raw material on stock exchanges in Europe. Due to the increasing level of interconnection with other Member States European law obliges us to do this. In addition, significant increases in prices of this raw material have been observed on the Polish Goods Exchange, although lower than in Western European countries. In order to protect Polish customers from the effects of Gazprom manipulation, it is necessary to adopt additional shielding instruments. The proposed amendment to the Act "Energy Law" consists in enabling energy companies involved in the distribution, the supply of blue fuel to install increases in the price of natural gas for customers in households. As a result, the proposed changes will protect consumers from a large surge in natural gas prices in 2022. The distribution of increases for several years will allow a significant reduction in household accounts, protecting less prosperous farms from energy poverty. It can be said that this solution creates conditions for energy companies to demonstrate social responsibility. We remember that these companies have incurred or are about to incur increased costs for the acquisition of natural gas, which goes to the customers, and about these costs. You can't forget. We want to create such conditions to protect final consumers from the surge in gas prices, but also to compensate for the costs that energy companies working in this sector have to bear. It is worth noting that the solutions put in place are temporary, optional and do not create direct costs for the state budget or local government units. At the same time, the proposed mechanism will not lead to negative effects on the part of energy companies. The proposed solutions are also supported by available analyses which indicate that natural gas prices should fall significantly at the end of the first quarter of 2022. Therefore, this solution should be considered as optimal in terms of protecting customers from price increases and maintaining the proper functioning of the gas market in Poland. Here, referring to the analysis, I would like to point out the analyses carried out by the European Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators. It is a reputable European agency which is thus diagnosing the market, indicating that gas prices within the European Union should be significantly reduced over the next three months. What is equally important, the proposed law is part of the anti-inflationary package, which today Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced, signaling a tax reduction, but also excise duty, VAT on basic fuels, including gas fuel. It is important that the proposed new regulations enter into force as soon as possible in order to allow the new tariff for household customers to enter into force from 1 January 2022. In order to do so, the tariff should be published by 17 December at the latest. Due to the importance, importance of this solution, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, as at the process stage of the law in the Sejm, of course grants him support, recommendations. And I would also like to ask the High House, the senators, to support this project, which will help protect Polish final customers from the gross, steep increase in the prices of this raw material in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Piech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u174	I have a question for the Minister about this reduction in natural gas VAT, from 23% to 8%. Does this cover the entire volume of this gas, for industry as well, or for individual customers only? We are here introducing this law to minimise increases in the price of gas fuel, i.e. for households it is intended. Will this VAT reduction correlate... also be included in this reduction proposed in this Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u175	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u176	Dear Senator, in relation to households, this will be a reduction in VAT for natural gas from 23% to 8%, and for other customers, including industrial, institutional customers, this will be a reduction to a minimum acceptable level in the European Union. Here it is related to the value of public aid to entrepreneurs. But all customers on the market will get an appropriate reduction in gas prices.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u177	Let me ask you, how much will this reduction be for these industrial customers, how much will this reduction be, in percentage? Because here we say that from 23% to 8%, and for industry from 23% to how many?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u178	Up to 8%, too. Except here I have to say that there were no differences in values in today's communication. The Prime Minister announced this information today, but for details I also refer to the President of the Council of Ministers' Office's communication. But since there was no differentiation for individual customers, I am convinced that for all customers, and for individual and industrial users, this will be a reduction to 8% That is, the minimum that may be in relation to the rules and values generally adopted in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u179	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Could you possibly explain in more detail what the terms "individual customer" and "institutional customer" mean? Because at least I haven't found a distinction here in this bill, in this change, maybe it's somewhere in the mother's bill. That's the first line. And two. Is this something to be understood? also in such a way that because it can be applied as if backwards, i.e. to the tariffs that are already approved, the higher ones... Is it possible simply to reduce the tariff recently approved, sufficiently high? And what may these reductions be?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u181	Dear Senator, the individual recipient is, of course, a household, perhaps just one word to describe it. Of course, the institutional recipient is the other recipients: industry, hospitals, schools, local government units. In that sense... Nevertheless, there are different tariffs here. These tariffs are an objective assessment of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office on the basis of reasonable costs. Thus, of course, tariff applications must still be submitted by companies supplying blue fuel to customers. But these provisions, including those contained in this law, will allow the right level of tariffs to be established. First, the submission of tariff applications and then the formation of these tariffs by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u182	And when it comes to possible reductions, what might they be? Because, as I understand it, they're possible, according to this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u183	It's hard for me to relate here. This is also a question of calculating this tariff in the tariff proposal. Certainly an important, important element will be the price of gas purchased by the energy company, because this is the most decisive factor for the price level requested in the tariff application. So I assume it's potentially possible. But don't expect a binding answer from me now either, because it will be possible to evaluate after price stability in the first quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions, so thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, senators.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u185	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as the Prime Minister said today, if this is a reduction in VAT, it will be a system approach. But I see the Minister has some doubts, too. And I've seen the hesitation several times, so I don't think he knows. And if it is as it is in the bill, then, unfortunately, it will be building a monopoly with PGNiG. And here we have some experience with Energa. In 2019 the Minister for Energy also said that there would be these reliefs. Yeah, but it's a report. Nobody leaves a dry thread. It was really wrong, and it was ad hoc. I mean, what am I saying again? If it's systemic, it'll be fair to some extent, but if it is, it'll be a monopoly. And it's going to be a monopoly like we have in the fuel sector. As we have in Orlen, in Lotus. And companies that trade... Small fuel stations have a minimum margin of 3% And the ones from the monopoly are about 35%. And it's really embarrassing. There's a monopoly, and we're all suffering from it. But if, as I say, it happens that in the gas sector we will also create a monopoly in which our PGNiG will be... I know that PGNiG has the advantage, has its networks and has its gas tanks. And we also know what's going on in the market. Other gas distributors E.g. The Finns or other companies break their contracts. Well, because they're afraid of these raises, they're afraid of the effects they're gonna get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Hibner, Szwed, Świlski, Błecherz, Godyla, Komarnicki, Jazłowiecka made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 556 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 556 A and 556 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is, as Mr. Marshal said, the law on amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. The aim of the proposed changes is to facilitate and accelerate the development of electromobility. This is in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019. The Act introduces rules to modify the rules for the creation of clean transport zones, sets out a procedure for the installation of multi-family charging points in buildings, extends the powers of inspectors of the Technical Supervision Authority and Transport Technical Supervision Authority, clarifies the rules on charging stations, introduces an obligation to obtain individual identification codes, also introduces provisions on depreciation of low-carbon vehicles, introduces the concept of regulation aimed at developing hydrogen refueling infrastructure, introduces the possibility of providing financial support where the trader does not buy a vehicle and uses leasing. The course of legislative work. As we know, there were 36 amendments, and then the next 8 amendments appeared at the meeting of the climate committee. These amendments have been unanimously approved by the government, but have also been explicitly accepted by the senators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u189	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski and Senator Jack Bury 4 amendments concerning the amendment to the permanent catalogue of exemptions in order to determine the date of the exemption for natural gas-powered vehicles, to clarify the provision on the possibility of extending the permanent exemption catalogue by the municipal council and the city council and to address the lack of a deadline for the implementation of plans for the construction of public charging stations which have not yet been implemented. Senator Ryszard Świlski has made amendments to ensure equal treatment of local governments and the Directorate-General for National Roads and Motorways in the field of road management. The point is that they have the same powers. The amendments were accepted by both the government and the whole committee. The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're the Minister again. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Yes, please, Mr. Marshal.]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Please, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present at today's meeting a bill amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws, Senate printing No. 556. The Sejm adopted this law at its 40th meeting on 29 October 2021. 426 Members voted in favour of the bill, 4 Members abstained and 10 opposed. Consensus and collective dominant support indicate that this is a project accepted by all political forces in the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, the transport market in the world is changing dynamically. We are facing a revolution that will change our thinking about the means of transport and the fuels used in this sector. We will increasingly use low-carbon alternative fuels, including electricity and hydrogen. As a result, we will breathe better, clean air, reduce the number of respiratory diseases and help stop climate change. We will achieve this by reducing emissions of harmful substances emitted from motor vehicles such as oxides NOX nitrogen, solid particles, so-called particulates suspended PM10, PM2,5, and carbon dioxide emissions. Poland has the chance to become a European hub for the production of batteries for electric cars. Several large companies, including Korean companies, decided to place their factories in our country, among others. LG Chem, SK Innovation, Hi-tech Battery Materials Poland, Foosung, Enchem, Nara Battery Engineering. These are projects worth more than PLN 7 billion. LG Chem is currently developing a battery factory in Kobierzyce near Wrocław, which is to be one of the largest such plants in the world. The target production capacity is 100 GWh per year. This will cover the demand for batteries in the European Union, which will be 90 GWh this year. The demand for batteries in Europe will rise rapidly in the coming years, market analysts estimate that in 2025 it will be 300 GWh, in 2030 • 700 GWh, and in 2035. More than 1 thousand 300 GWh. The first of the planned three battery production lines was launched in Jaworzno... sorry, in Jawor in Lower Silesia by Daimler. The plant has been producing Mercedes car engines for over a year. Batteries are to become another product of this brand with an annual production of about 100,000 batteries for plug-in hybrids and fully electric cars. Thanks to these investments in 2020 Poland was the largest exporter of lithium-ion batteries among the countries of the European Union and the seventh in the world. The value of exports amounted to nearly EUR 4 billion, which represented 1.7% the total value of Polish exports. Compared to the value of 2019, this export increased by over EUR 2 billion, which was the biggest annual increase in foreign sales of a single position in the statistics of Polish foreign trade. Given that the number of electric cars in the European Union will increase significantly, this trend will be maintained. Moreover, it is worth noting that Poland's position in the export of electric buses in the European Union has clearly strengthened, with 10% In 2017, up to 46% in 2020. Thus, our country became the largest exporter of electric buses in the European Union, ahead of Belgium, which accounts for 36% of EU exports. The Czech Republic was less important than 7%. , Germany only 4%, and the Netherlands less than 2%. The largest producer is Solaris, which has so far won orders for more than 1 thousand electric vehicles. It has produced and sold buses in mid-November last year. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, in 2020 Polish producers delivered electric buses worth ca. €220 million, which means an increase of more than 50% year-to-year. Compared to the 2019 data, export value to these countries has increased more than fourfold. The bus users were also Norway, Romania, Luxembourg, France and Sweden. I recalled, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, these data about the battery industry, but also the production of electric buses, as an indication of the potential and importance of the Polish economy in this innovative sector related to electromobility, especially in the area of collective transport, and the reduction by means of this low transport emissions in transport. It is extremely important for the quality of life of citizens not only in Poland but throughout the European Union. In Poland, since 2018, the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels has been in force, which regulates market functioning rules and sets targets for achieving the share of low- and zero-emission vehicles in central, local government fleets and in the performance of public tasks. Due to the continuous development of electromobility in Poland and in the world, it is necessary to modify and supplement existing regulations. The aim of the change is to create the best possible regulation for the development of electromobility for both citizens and entrepreneurs who contribute to the economic development of the country. Therefore, the law on which we are privileged to lean is to work here in the High House, which includes the following most important regulations. Firstly, to amend the rules on the establishment of clean transport zones, to introduce the possibility of establishing them in all municipalities within the country and to define individual entry rights. The zones will be created by a resolution of the municipality council which will determine the rules for their functioning. Secondly, new solutions concerning the depreciation limit for combustion and low-carbon vehicles, the introduction of a fixed depreciation rate for hydrogen powered vehicles of PLN 225 000. The limit for electric vehicles already amounts to PLN 225 thousand. There will be a reduction in the depreciation limit for vehicles emitting more than 50 g CO2 per km from 1 January 2026 from the current 150 thousand PLN to 100 thousand PLN. Here I would like to point out that we are giving a very long vacathio legis, until 1 January 2026, so that entrepreneurs can adapt their strategies, their investment decisions in the field of conducting business and shaping the fleet with a greater share of low- or zero-emission vehicles, preparing for the level of reduced depreciation in the next 5 years. Introduction for drivers legiting the driver's license cat. B the possibility of carrying out light zero-emission commercial vehicles, equivalent to light combustion vehicles whose total permissible mass due to the use of alternative propulsion exceeds 3,5 thousand kg but is not more than 4 000 250 kg. This is the third of the proposed changes. Finally, fourthly, the introduction of definitions and regulations enabling the development of the hydrogen economy, the definition of hydrogen filling stations and the design of regulations governing the operation of hydrogen filling facilities. Another fifth proposal is to facilitate installation of multi-family charging points for electric vehicles in buildings. The next item is the implementation into Polish law of Directive No 1161 of 2019 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient transport vehicles. The provisions aim to increase the participation of low- and zero-emission vehicles in tender procedures. Another amendment is the implementation of Directive No 944 of 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity. The provisions prohibit the operators of the electricity distribution system of charging stations for vehicles due to their privileged market position. This results, High Izbo, in the abolition of the intervention mechanism provided for in the Act, according to which the operators of the electricity distribution system were to build vehicle charging stations in selected cities in Poland. Another issue is the implementation in Polish law of Directive No 844 of 2018 on the energy performance of buildings. The provisions set out the obligation to install charging points and ducts and electrical cables in designed and renovated buildings. The draft amendment of the law was subject to extensive public consultation. A number of comments were made by both citizens and public authorities and market stakeholders in industry organisations. I can say with a clear conscience that the bill presented is balanced in all its demands, trying to reconcile often conflicting interests. The amendment is another point in implementing a consistent policy to support the development of electromobility in Poland. I would also like, Mr Marshal, to briefly address the amendments and suggestions, the difficult questions which were raised at the stage of the proceedings in the Sejm, and especially at the sittings of the Senate committees. They were also reported here, in the course of work, during the meeting of the High House. At the stage of work in the Senate, the Act was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs. As part of the committee's work, amendments were tabled both in legal and legislative terms and in substance. All amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office on legislative issues were accepted by the government. With regard to the comments and the substantive amendments tabled, I would like to discuss them very briefly. As regards the issue of clean transport zones, it should be made very clear that the proposed rules on clean transport zones are the result of a compromise reached between the local government, environmental organisations and the government. Our aim is to create solutions that will enable all local governments to shape the principles of their functioning. Therefore, the top-down definition of exemptions, e.g. Only with regard to the Euro emission standard would the compromise reached during the public consultation be violated. Self-governments are best aware of local needs, the needs of their inhabitants, and imposing solutions at the level of the law would result in the fact that this instrument would not be sufficiently effective. I would like to say, by the way, that during the work of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, it was the voice of local governments that was crucial for us to shape the solutions that were included in the draft of the contested law. As regards the issue of natural gas-powered vehicles and the possibility of their entry into clean transport zones, it should be stressed that certain types of specialised electric heavy goods vehicles are currently not available on the market. Natural gas-powered vehicles are often the only alternative for them. It will be possible to consider a ban on the entry of natural gas-powered vehicles when electric vehicles are available to replace gas-powered vehicles. This is particularly the case for specialized vehicles related to the maintenance of residents. It is about municipal services which municipalities, within their respective competences, provide to residents on a daily basis. During the committee's work, the issue was also raised concerning local road managers for whom exemption from the obligations on the participation of low- and zero-emission vehicles set out in the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels was requested. I would like to point out that this law already introduces an exemption for all road managers in the performance of public tasks relating to the summer and winter maintenance of roads, namely mechanical cleaning of roadways, in particular sweeping, washing, preventing and combating winter slippers, including nudes, and removing snow. This means that the main activities of road managers are covered by the exemption proposed in the Act. In addition, the amendment clarifies that the requirements set out in the Act apply only to motor vehicles. This means that specialized and construction machinery for the construction of roads or for the maintenance of roads are excluded. With regard to the issue of the termination of the intervention mechanism for the construction of charging points implemented by the OSD, i.e. operators of electricity distribution networks, and plans prepared by the local authorities to build such points, I would like to inform the High House that no provision of the law repeals these plans. Therefore, there is no need to supplement the Law on the regulation of competitions for the construction of charging stations on the basis of the plans prepared. Once the provisions on the intervention mechanism have been repealed, these plans may And in my opinion, they should be used for the construction of the station by private operators. This will allow you to use the work you have done so far. Several times in the course of the work on the Law, the issue was raised of a reassignment of the deadline by which local authorities will be required to ensure a minimum level of low- and zero-emission vehicles. This term has already been moved. Given the need to take action to improve air quality, I believe that it is not justified to move further. In addition, this action could be negatively taken by the local government units which have taken action to fulfil the obligations imposed. It should also be noted that the Minister for Climate and Environment has provided support for the implementation of these obligations by local government units. In January 2021, the first selection of applications for funding under the priority programme of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management was carried out: Green public transport, with a budget of PLN 1 billion 100 million in the grant component and PLN 200 million in the loan component under low-interest loans. The call was of great interest and was closed 14 days after the launch due to the exhaustion of the funds. In view of the many requests and requests made by local government units, due to the great interest in this scheme of subsidies for the purchase of electric public transport vehicles, mainly buses, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in cooperation with the Minister for Climate and Environment has prepared and announced the second phase of the programme "Green Public Transport." The programme's budget for this phase is PLN 1 billion for grants and PLN 200 million for loans. The selection of applications shall be carried out on a competitive basis and shall take place from 1 September to 20 December 2021. As in the Sejm, and here in the High House, I would like to remind the honourable local authorities, the public transport operators in the municipalities, of this unique opportunity. I encourage all local government officials, also because of the honourable states of senators, to take an interest in this programme and submit an application, to apply for these funds. The deadline is 20 December of this year. In addition, the Minister for Climate and Environment together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management prepared the programme's objectives This program has been implemented called my electrician. The programme is aimed at individuals, but also at entrepreneurs, local self-government units, farmers' associations and religious associations. It's designed to support the acquisition of electric vehicles. It should be noted that the main way in which entrepreneurs acquire the vehicle is through leasing, therefore my electric programme, in addition to purchasing support, will also cover the financing of leasing instalments. The programme's budget is PLN 700 million. For individuals, an additional payment of PLN 18 000 750 is provided for the purchase, and in the case of families who can identify themselves with the Large Family Card, it is an additional payment of PLN 27 000. The programme has great interest. As I said earlier, we are particularly counting on the participation of entrepreneurs who will also be able to receive payment for the lease payment. A separate action that will soon be launched, I hope, in the coming month It is a programme to support the development of alternative fuels infrastructure, directed mainly at the charging infrastructure of electric vehicles. The budget of this programme is PLN 870 million. The European Commission has issued a decision in recent days on the compatibility of State aid with the common market. We have been working together with the European Commission for a few months to notify these state aid rules and a regulation will be published in the coming days setting out the conditions for support in this area. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The funds that will soon be allocated to the development of electromobility in these 4 programmes are actually in 3 but green public transport has been divided into 2 tours, a total of over PLN 4 billion. It's a huge financial injection. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki took care of the impetus of growth in the area of this automotive segment, the transport segment, which is electromobility, and especially low- and zero-emission transport. The aim of this law is to accelerate the development of electromobility and the entire zero- and low-carbon transport sector. The proposed rules are positively assessed by entrepreneurs operating in this sector and by local government units. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the High House to give a positive opinion and adopt it in the form submitted by the Government. and accepted by the Sejm At the present Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the branch that's in the bill, connected with hydrogen, with the future, but apparently the near future. First line. In the case of charging electric vehicles, each can, practically speaking, even install the charging station itself. And what about hydrogen? Will this country have a monopoly, or will it be specialized in this company? And how will this hydrogen be transmitted? Are there gonna be hydrogens? What are you planning in this case? Will you initiate this? And the second point, already typically technical. Namely in the definition of a hydrogen-powered vehicle, which is proposed in this act, and this definition then affects others, e.g. for the definition of hydrogen filling point, hydrogen station, etc., it is kind of specified that it is hydrogen obtained... electricity generated from hydrogen in fuel cells installed in vehicles. That would mean that we only consider one method of using hydrogen, not hydrogen combustion engines. Is it intentional, or is it omission? If it's intentional, why? What does it matter? Why don't we use hydrogen? In the internal combustion engines, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Monopoly of the state. Absolutely not, free market. Of course, we need to meet the security conditions, and therefore we have a very direct participation in all the work on the bill and other elements that we are working on. I'll talk about them in a minute. The Technical Supervision Office, Transport Technical Supervision Authority, institutions which protect the safety of infrastructure both related to conventional transport, powered by engines in the traditional sense of... It is also particularly important that these institutions participate in the whole process of shaping the hydrogen market, because it is a new sector of the economy in Poland, Europe and the world. The establishment of regulations on safety, certification of equipment and hydrogen itself as a fuel is extremely important. We must bear in mind that in addition to the issues on which hydrogen will have a significant impact, such as the reduction in the emissions of the economy, such as improving competitiveness, such as new technologies, such as the great opportunity to develop new sectors of the economy, we are primarily concerned with the safety, safety of vehicle users, as well as those who work on infrastructure. Similar provisions as conventional fuel stations will be shaped in the case of hydrogen filling stations. Transport is currently the most accessible transport using tanks, but it is planned to build in the future and in Europe, and in Poland gas pipelines transporting hydrogen. Perhaps it will be at the beginning simply gas fuels with a mixture of hydrogen, so that the share of hydrogen in the gaseous fuel is increasing, but it is also planned, among other things. as part of pan-European, large, international projects, the construction of the hydrogen transmission bus. We are practically at the beginning of this market development and the issue of security is extremely important. We cannot talk about details yet, about ready-made solutions, which I could say will be used in Poland, because at the moment there is a discussion among experts, among engineers and technologists of this industry. We involve among others. Instytut Nafty i Gazu z Kraków, which in Poland has the largest, most advanced specialized hydrogen laboratory. With regard to engines or motors, the driving force of hydrogen-using vehicles, in the world most widespread and associated with individual transport using hydrogen, and this will not be an advertisement, because it is simply common knowledge, it is the Toyota Mirai model, which has fuel cells, which is the most widely used vehicle in the world at the moment using these technologies, although of course not the only one. And there's a model of using hydrogen in the car through a fuel cell to produce electricity, where de facto electricity drives the car directly, which is electromobility. It's an electric car, but it uses hydrogen. What are the results? It is independent of battery charging, which also, first, has its weight, second, has limited capacity and every now and then we have to charge this battery, and it also increases the range, which means there is a low emission, greater coverage than for at least some or most battery vehicles. There is a dispute in the transport sector about which branch of electromobility will be the future, or more battery vehicles, or fuel cell-based vehicles using hydrogen to produce electricity, which directly gives the drive to move these vehicles. Most experts present this in such a way that hydrogen will be more important in heavy transport, in freight transport both circular and rail, i.e. it is the railroad for hydrogen, also for river, maritime transport, and even at the moment work is being done on building an engine using hydrogen for air transport purposes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that in Poland we have huge potential in this area in Podkarpacie. Podkarpacka Water Valley was established in Rzeszów. One of the participants of this project is the company, which is part of the hydrogen valley within the Podkarpackie Aviation Valley and is working on the construction of a hydrogen-powered engine. If this work is completed and the solution is attractive enough to commercialise this technology, we have the chance to be in the global markets as a country, as a country that will have the most modern technology in the world. I personally support this initiative. The Ministry of Climate took action related to the organisation of hydrogen valleys in Poland. These are already, among others, at the moment. Podkarpacka Water Valley, the valley of Lower Silesia, Silesia and Mazowiecka, but there are also initiatives in northern Poland, there is also a Wielkopolska or Pomeranian valley. We are all surrounded by our substantive care, also in this area, that we try to associate support from the best Polish universities, research institutes, also institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences or Ministry of Climate and Environment. We are also expecting significant European funding for the hydrogen sector in the near future. By 2050, the European Commission has declared its support for hydrogen technologies at an almost unimaginable amount of EUR 470 billion. Of course, this is more a direction, because we do not know whether such a amount will be allocated to these technologies in all European countries within the next 30 years, but this also shows the strategic decisions that are being made at the level of the European Commission and in the individual European Union Member States. To conclude with the senator's question, it must be said that direct combustion of hydrogen in the engine as fuel, as we understand it, in conventional engines, is more dangerous and less efficient. But I think we should leave it to engineers, technologists, those who are working on these solutions. Once again, the most important is efficiency, also the price, because then the market will develop if these solutions after their commercialization are affordable for all, for individual users and of course for business. But the first priority is the safety of the use of both vehicles themselves and devices that are used for the storage and distribution of hydrogen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u196	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal? With the last sentence I agree as much as possible, let the economy decide, just the market. Perhaps there will be a commercial model of a passenger car that will burn hydrogen, a hydrogen combustion engine. These are two different alternative methods: either the fuel cell and the electric motor or the combustion engine. Except we're here, introducing only fuel cells and electric motors by definition, we're really narrowing it down. Pay attention to that. I may read this definition because it is important, this is the basic definition from which the next one comes, namely: hydrogen-powered vehicle, motor vehicle, etc., rail or floating, using the electricity generated from hydrogen in the fuel cells installed in them for propulsion. So it's just a mode, I'd call it an electric motor, not a combustion engine. Let it solve the market. Because what, I'm sorry, cares. the owner of the hydrogen station, which vehicle will come to him to refuel. And he would like to have a surcharge and in such a case, for each vehicle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, At present, there are no vehicles in the world that burn in a hydrogen engine as a fuel within the meaning of a conventional engine driven by liquid fuel. If such vehicles appear on the market, we will be able to change this definition at any time, expand it. I will also inform you that the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, the current amendment of this Act, has become an opportunity to introduce the most urgent regulations concerning the hydrogen market, the safety of the operation of equipment, among others. the definition of the fuel cell. I would also like to inform you that we have started working on such a very comprehensive regulation, which we call the constitution for hydrogen on the labour market at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. These will be regulations in many legal acts, both in laws and regulations, in implementing acts. Perhaps at the consultation stage, when we are very broad, above all with the scientific, research community, analysing certain solutions, these issues will be harmonised and extended to the aspect that you are asking the senator about. I think next year, if we're lucky, I'll have the opportunity and the honor to present these solutions to you. At the moment we are already working hard at the Ministry of Climate and Environment on a broad regulation concerning the hydrogen market and the use, the use of hydrogen in the Polish economy in every aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u198	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have talked a lot about spending on a fund that is designed to support low-carbon transport. I just want to remind you that this fund was created in 2018. By 2020, this fund has not been spent in addition to expenditure on the maintenance of officials, nor has it been spent for low-carbon transport purposes. I'd like to know what's changed until today. How much money has actually been spent on low-carbon transport until today? How much money was really spent? I'm asking you not what you want to do, but what you've already done.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u200	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator! The Low-Emission Transport Fund, because the Senator asks about this fund, was formed in the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, which entered into force in February 2018 and also in the framework of implementing regulations... Maybe it's different. In this law, the necessary implementing regulations were shaped in this way, precisely because of respect for public funds, in order to ensure that as many as five constitutional ministers were involved. They were supposed to issue executive regulations together. It turned out that this was a very difficult process, even paralyzing the possibility of spending from this fund, and therefore the law was amended. The Fund has been transformed into a multi-annual commitment and has been transferred directly into a gesture of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. And at the moment, new programs are being shaped and implemented, which I mentioned earlier. Today I can say that... how much has been spent? Maybe, Mr. Senator... I don't have that kind of information right now, but green public transport is 1 billion zloty. As part of the program, my electrician... I don't have any current data right now, and I don't want to be held hostage right now, because these are precise financial data, so if the senator agrees, and so does the marshal, I'll give you detailed information in writing in this respect. Thank you. [[Please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u201	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u202	Minister, I have a question: have you considered supporting the electric bicycle industry? It's such an interesting subject. And often people associate that an electric bike is something other than it is. Well, maybe not: an electric bike is a means of transport, where you also have to twist your legs a little bit, and not just drive. Well, I won't go into details anymore. The point is that in Poland only 20,000 e-rowers were sold annually, while in Europe 6.5 million. So here we have a relatively small sale. Poland is a tycoon in the production of bicycles Yeah, we're in 4th place in Europe. And 2 billion... This is a market that represents for us 2 billion zlotys a year of turnover. And so I figured, if you'd financed it in some kind of amount, e.g. $50 million at $4 billion $50 million isn't that much. This could increase the sales of these e-rowers to, say, 25 or 30,000. Have you considered the possibility of supporting electric bicycles, especially in urban areas, where it is becoming increasingly difficult to reach by car or other means of transport? There, an electric bike could be an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u203	Thank you, Senator, for that question. Yes, I had the pleasure of meeting with representatives of the Polish electric bicycle manufacturers industry and I personally believe that support from the priority programme should be provided here. At the same time, I would like to point out that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in all its programmes must aim to achieve an ecological objective, and it is difficult to properly recognise that the conversion of a normal bike, driven by muscle strength, to an electric bike, with a battery, is a way to achieve an ecological effect. It would be different if we swapped a bike or a motorbike powered by an internal combustion engine for an electric bike. But surely there is an area in cities where we meet, for example, bikes used in transport, delivery of various kinds of packages, food, etc. And we are working on this subject, this is a rather advanced work and we want to present a programme of funding, subsidies for buying electric bicycles next year. Perhaps we will also be able to work out a formula for this in person, which will allow the introduction of subsidies for bicycles so-called. recreational, which each of us could acquire for the purpose of improving physical vigour or simply for the purpose of realizing cognitive desire, for the possibility of visiting e.g. surrounding towns, traveling on a bike. I'm sure it's worth thinking about. This is a very good goal in itself. So I want to say, Mr. Senator, that we have not only noticed this niche problem in this part of the electromobility market, but we are also working on creating the right program. In time, we'll keep it informed. [[Can I have one sentence ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u204	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u205	Minister, I wouldn't go for the fact that it's an electric bike, but yes, a combustion engine. The electric bike. 'Cause then he's just a little bit in the middle, between - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. It's to achieve this ecological effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u206	That was the last question, Minister, so thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, thank you to the senators.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Anthony the Man in remote mode. Senator, can you hear me? He can't hear. So please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, and I will let Senator Husband speak later if he can be contacted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u207	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendments to the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels are linked to the implementation of the provisions of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles; common rules for the internal market in electricity; energy performance of buildings and energy efficiency. The amendment introduces a number of important solutions. These include the provision allowing category B drivers to drive commercial alternative fuel vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of up to 4 000 250 kg and not, as has been the case, 3 000 500 kg. The additional weight of electric batteries has been taken into account. For the benefit of entrepreneurs using leasing, i.e. the most popular form of acquiring new vehicles in Poland, the possibility of providing financial support was introduced. The introduction of provisions to facilitate the development of the hydrogen economy, the definition of hydrogen filling stations and the definition of regulation on the functioning of the filling infrastructure should also be assessed positively. More and more indications are that hydrogen fuel will be widely used in public transport or in vehicle fleets. However, the government's lack of dynamism in the development of renewable energy sources, which will be the basis for the production of green hydrogen, is worrying. Just a moment ago, we heard. Mr. Minister spoke about it. . about the incredible money that the European Union is going to transfer to Member States for hydrogen, for the development of hydrogen. But, Minister, I, from your mouth, can still hear the government's mouth: hydrogen, hydrogen, hydrogen, but we need to distinguish between the hydrogen we are talking about in the future. Are we talking about hydrogen produced from coal or gas, or are we talking about green water? We have green hydrogen from renewable energy sources, and the government unfortunately does not have the best solutions to stimulate the development of these sources and which would allow us, Poles, to reach for the huge money that the European Union will offer us just for the development of hydrogen. Minister, you have to be one step ahead. Although the first hydrogen bus in Poland will reach Konin in July 2022, the nearest hydrogen station is where? Berlin. Interestingly, a definition of electrically assisted bike appeared in the bill, which can be read as a pavement of the road to the development and support of a wider spectrum of electric vehicles. And he's bragging about it. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thanks to the amendment of the law in each municipality, regardless of the number of inhabitants, clean transport zones can be created. The decisions on their creation and operating rules and exemptions for persons, entities, institutions for the use of the zone will be taken in the form of resolutions of the municipal council, city councils. I am convinced that leaving the local authorities the freedom to decide on the creation of zones and the exemptions they will apply to them is the right thing to do, because they are the best way to organise and define the rules for the operation of zones in their territory, the more that many local authorities have indicated that some flexibility is needed in order to ensure that, due to the high standards, they do not completely exclude them from this area of traffic. This may mean that clean transport zones will at least be opened at the beginning also for modern combustion cars. However, in some respects the national framework for the operation of clean transport zones seems to be useful. Act e.g. nothing about mutual recognition of stickers by different municipalities. It could therefore be that the holder of a sticker valid in one zone will not enter another because it will not meet the emission standards set out therein. In order not to cause unnecessary chaos, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs introduced appropriate amendments to standardise the appearance of stickers for all privileged vehicles. I believe that in addition to this change drivers should be given clear rules of entry into zones. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am also afraid that the current novel of the law presented by the government will destroy the previous actions of many local government officials in the construction of charging infrastructure. The 2018 Act requires municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants to draw up, inter alia, an agreement. with distribution network operators, plans to locate charging points, however, although these plans were finally created, many of them were not completed within the deadline. This happened, among other things. because the distribution network operators have stopped work on the news that the climate ministry is planning to abolish the pre-existing obligation to build points. The plans prepared and agreed by the cities were suspended in the vacuum. In order to ensure that the locations indicated in them can be used by private operators As some distribution network operators demand financial gratification for their resignation, the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs has made appropriate adjustments to address the problem and to ensure that local authorities do not have to face additional expenditure on their own to implement the plans, they can benefit from financial support mechanisms for the construction of charging infrastructure. However, the budget in this respect is far too small to meet the needs of all actors. On the other hand, it is pleased that the provisions of the Act regulate procedures for the installation of energy collection points in multi-family buildings. New residential buildings will have to be prepared for the development of electromobility, and interested in purchasing an electric vehicle, residents of existing buildings will be able to apply for the possibility of charging it at the place of residence. Applications for permission to install private power stations and to connect real estate to the network will be sent to housing communities, cooperatives and, in the case of buildings entered in the register. For preservation of monuments. The Act lists kazus as to when these institutions will not be able to obtain authorisation for implementation. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, I am disappointed by the failure to give a deadline to enter the clean transport zones of natural gas-powered vehicles. Many studies indicate that gas vehicles pollute the environment even more than diesel. However, already some local authorities, using EU funds, have purchased gas-powered cars, and more institutions and individuals are willing to make such investments. How does this relate to the objective of achieving climate neutrality in Poland by 2050? And here, too, the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs came to the rescue, introducing amendments to solve the problem. The novel adds to the catalogue of vehicles exempted from entry into the clean transport zones specialized vehicles of the Chief Environmental Inspector other than those used exclusively for passenger transport and carrying out statutory tasks related to civil protection, fire safety and public order. Thus, light heavy goods vehicles, by no means zero-emission, with an air pollution measurement apparatus, were allowed to impair the quality of this air by entering the clean transport zone. And this, unfortunately, is not the only extension of the catalogue. Vehicles of other entities will also enter the zone if they are used to carry out civil protection, fire safety and public order tasks. It is not known what other vehicles are to be, because police, fire department, medical and military vehicles have already been included in the exemption catalogue. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, although the bill is heading in the right direction, I am convinced that it requires a few amendments. At least those proposed by the members of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. Is there any way to reconnect with Senator Man? No. [[Voice from the room: No, she doesn't answer.]] Good. I'll let you know that the list... [[I'm still...]] Senator Gawłowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am merely in the context of additional clarifications concerning the amendments taken over by the committee and asking the High House to accept these amendments. Because indeed, the clean transport zone is something that we all expect. And such initiatives have already been undertaken in Poland, even the city of Kraków was the leader in this area. Only then were many exemptions adopted, which resulted in a zone which was intended to be a zone in which the traffic of high-carbon cars was intended to be substantially reduced, at the end, de facto after a few months, ceased to exist, because the commune council was still subject to various types of local pressures. For these reasons, the minimums mentioned in this Act should be adopted. That's one thing. Second... Senator Jazłowiecka has already mentioned this. I'll say it again. If we do not build a single base, such a basis, a framework that will define and standards We propose that these are standards based on the Euro standard The clean transport zone in Gdansk will not have to mean the same as the clean transport zone in Cracow. Everyone will have the same stickers, some will enter the zone, and in fact they should not enter this zone. That is why there is a proposal for us to harmonise and build a foundation. Self-governments will be able to expand, define borders, etc., but minima and standards should be described in the Act. That's two. And thirdly, if I were to look for some comparisons and explanations, then... some of you remember things about waste management. Over the years, such simple assumptions have also been adopted, throughout the 1990s, for the period after 2000, that the municipalities will cope with it. And then it turned out that in some municipalities, plastic was collected for green sacks, and green waste was collected in other municipalities for green sacks. And there came this moment of unification. And we say that we should not wait for this mess to arise there, in the future, but that we should build decent legislation from the beginning so that we can build these standards and bases from the beginning. It doesn't cost much, Minister. And it is worth the amendments that serve, support, not mindlessly reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u210	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Jazlowiecka. Senator Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u211	I'm the one who can do it right now. In addition to the proposal made by Senator Gawłowski... [[Voices from the room: Microphone, microphone.]] [[Is there a card?]] There's a card. Yes. [[Voice from the room: Oh, now...]] But I had a light before... In addition to the proposals made by Senator Gawłowski, I would like to propose, because the local authorities have really serious problems with the collection fees from the residents... I would like to propose a solution that is taking place, for example. Belgium. That's where the residents buy the bags, the right bags, and depending on the size of the bag they buy, they pay the price. And the price of that bag is already charged for the garbage disposal. This is the most reliable, honest form of garbage charges for all residents. I propose that the government think of such solutions. Since they can be used in Belgium, they can also be used in Poland. [[Voice from the room: And in Switzerland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u212	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Chybicka, Hibner, Poor, Swedish, Bubbles, Gromko, Świlski, Godyla, Szejnfeld and Komarnicki have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Any conclusions? There were no legislative proposals... [[Voice from the hall: No, but there are different positions of the committee.]] Oh, good. [[Voice from the room: It still has to go to...]] I see. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u213	We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and maritime administration. Let me remind you that the project was brought in by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 462, and the committee's report In print No 462 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Mr Marshal mentioned, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Legislative Commission for First Reading leaned on the draft law submitted by the Senators Group. The committees are asking for the bill to be passed without any amendments. During the discussion of the project, there were voices from the local government, who raised a number of doubts. At the same time, the local government supported this bill very strongly. In fact, the bill is designed to give Polish coastal communities a chance to actually develop beaches. In today's state of law, this is an area managed by a special administration, a maritime administration which has a number of tasks related to maintaining it in a sound state of safety. the technical belt, such a concept appears in the law on maritime areas, the concept of technical belt, these are beaches, dunes, sometimes adjacent areas to this area. But there are no tasks related to the development of the tourist, i.e. bathing sites which are organized on the Polish Baltic Sea, maintaining cleanliness, maintaining rescuers or implementing other infrastructure, connected even with sanitary facilities. It's all on the side of self-government. Self-government is not the owner of this property, it is not the owner of the property. He's in trouble because, theoretically, he can't make money on his own land, but by a number of agreements that are made. The whole chain is here, from the old-timer, who acts on behalf of the Treasury, to the voivode, the maritime office, everywhere there must appear consents, the local government theoretically has a chance to take action in a very specific area. Often it depends on the will or lack of will of officials. Often it is that consent is for a year, sometimes consent is for 2 or 3 years. Self-governments therefore do not undertake any major investment activities, civilising beaches development in Poland. Civilizing, for example. allowing sanitary facilities to be built directly on the beach. Those who drive over the Polish Baltic know that dunes are often a place... is simply a toilet, because for many reasons people who use the beach have no other options. The dunes are several hundred metres wide in many places. The location of the toilet behind the dune sometimes makes it impossible for those willing to use it. Maritime offices do not invest in this area, and local authorities say: we would like to do it, but we have permission for a year, we cannot spend money, so we do not really have the opportunity to make investments. Therefore, the senators whom I have the honour to represent, and now the joint committees, are asking that the municipalities be able to take action relating to the application to the Maritime Authority to take over part of the technical belt and, in fact, the beach The graphical attachment will determine this here. For up to 10 years, so that they can organise activities in this area related to really 4 functions, tourism, sports, recreation and culture. The aim is to civilise this process related to Polish beaches and so that tourism and Polish coastal towns can provide services at the level as it is in other European cities. The bill contains a number of safeguards against other uses than the one I was talking about. The Act gives maritime authorities the opportunity to monitor compliance with the rules set out in the application in the request for acquisition for precisely those 4 purposes. The Act does not exclude other laws, i.e. the obligation to draw up spatial planning plans, the obligation to obtain environmental decisions, the obligation to obtain building permits, etc., etc., and thus, as far as the whole process is concerned, it actually allows Poland to civilise the process of managing coastal beaches. On behalf of the committees mentioned above, I ask for the bill to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Isn't there a government representative in our deliberations? I can only say that, unfortunately, this once again falls within the time when I am in session, and it comes to me once again, because unfortunately I have nothing else left on behalf of the entire House to comment on another manifestation of disregard for the democratic institution of the Republic of Poland, which is the Senate. Today, once again, the representative of the government ignored the meeting of the Supreme Chamber of the Polish Parliament. These are customs that must be considered inadmissible. As Vice-Marshal of this House, and I hope that on behalf of all of us, I express my deep opposition to the disregard of the higher chamber of the Polish parliament by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator. About the formal or the discussion? [[No, in a discussion.]] In the middle of a discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I fully support the bill presented by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. For 12 years I was president of Kolobrzeg and I know what my concerns were when even in May I had no decision about renting beaches. Those who decided to do this kept me in check: this is for a year, and this is for two years. This bill will not change at all, these beaches that have changed since the 1990s in favour of visitors, resters, bathers, will not change, only the local authorities of the Baltic Sea Sea Belt will be clear that for these 10 years or for 9 years they will be able to plan what is to be there, how it is to be, will be long-term planning for this belt. There were such fears that our beaches would be filled with different bars, not bars, not other fields. I know 100% that local authorities do not want to let such situations happen, because a tourist, whether Polish or foreign, comes not only to drink coca-cola on the beach or play volleyball, but also to relax on these beautiful Polish beaches. Together with Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, we have sent information on this bill, which is currently being processed, to local governments, to all local governments of our coastal zone. 80% responded very positively, encouraging us to support this project. And that's why I'm asking my fellow senators to support this project and vote it out. God forbid it happens tomorrow, not Saturday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. Honestly, I don't see why we should vote on Saturday. [[You never know.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Alexander Szwed and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 569 and the report of the Commission In print No 569 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Błucher, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 17 November 2021 amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and certain other laws. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the said committees on 18 November. The joint meeting of the Joint Committee was held on 23 November. After the bill has been examined, the joint committees shall bring: The High Senate shall approve the attached draft resolution. This law is intended in the opinion of the projector primarily to increase the effectiveness of the actions undertaken by the Border Guard to protect the state border of the Republic of Poland in the event of a threat to the security of the state or public order and to improve the security of border guards carrying out tasks related to the protection of the state border. The subject of the Act is the amendment of the Law of 12 October 1990 on the Protection of the State Border by providing the Minister responsible for Home Affairs with the power to introduce by means of a regulation issued after consulting the Head of the Border Guard for the temporary prohibition of staying in a specific area of the Republic of Poland in a border area adjacent to the State border, which is an external border within the meaning of the provisions of the Schengen Borders Code. The Act establishes a catalogue of persons excluded from the scope of the ban and grants the competent local commandant the authority to grant, in justified cases, permission to stay for a limited period and under certain conditions in the prohibited area. In addition, it shall specify the scope of the persons to whom the prohibition is not applicable due to the professional or professional tasks performed and shall impose a penalty in the form of a detention or a fine for the presence in the prohibited area during the period of validity of the prohibition by a person who is not authorised to do so. In addition, there are amendments to the Law of 12 October 1990 on Border Guard and amendments to the Law of 29 September 2021 on compensation for the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie voivodship and part of the Lublin voivodship. In the light of the comments made in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, it is appropriate, at least briefly, to present the course of legislative work. The opinion was submitted to the Sejm by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2021. On the same day, the Marshal of the Sejm sent a draft of the opinion to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading and examination. On the following day, on 16 November 2021, the committee submitted a report on the draft law that was adopted after rejecting the application for rejection. At the second reading of the draft opinion, which took place on the same day, 14 amendments were tabled to it. Like the minority claims in the original report, they were rejected by the Sejm at the third reading. During the committee's work, following the presentation of the main principles of the bill by Mr Bartosz Grodecki, the chairman of the committee asked the chief legislator Piotr Magda to present the main comments of the Bureau on the bill. And I have to say that this opinion seems to have impressed all the participants in the committee meeting, or perhaps it would have been better if I had said that she had shocked some of them. Let me quote a few passages from the opinion. There are grounds for considering that the act in question is incompatible with the Article. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland by the fact that its draft, covering the scope of the jurisdiction of the public authorities, was examined by the Sejm using the urgent procedure. In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, Art. 12a paragraph. The 2th National Border Protection Act gives the Home Minister the opportunity to introduce bans. And this provision, according to the Legislative Bureau, equips this public authority with a regulatory authority. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 12b. 2 Law on State Border Protection: In justified cases, the competent local commandant of the Border Guard Office may authorise the stay for a limited period and under certain conditions in the prohibited area referred to in Article. 12a paragraph. 1, other than those mentioned in paragraph 1. 1, in particular journalists.. This provision therefore equips the said Border Guard's off-road authorities also with regulatory powers. The opinion also states that it is justified to believe that Article. 12a paragraph. 1 of the Act is also incompatible with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution because it provides for the possibility of introducing a ban, the content of which violates the essence of constitutional freedom of movement in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the choice of residence and residence. Well, and maybe also one more remark: that according to Article. 18d Act on the protection of the state border violation of the prohibition is sanctioned by the sentence of arrest. Finally, the conclusion of this opinion is that, in conclusion, in view of the scope and nature of the objections raised, no amendments to the Act in question are in a position to alter its negative legal assessment. Abstracting from the faulty way of adopting the opinion, it is necessary to stress that the violation of the constitutional freedom of movement in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the choice of the place of residence and residence cannot be applied during a period in which a specific emergency condition does not apply. In view of the urgency of drawing up this opinion, it covers the presentation of only the most important constitutional shortcomings, which prejudice the fact that the act in question should not become part of the Polish legal order. I must say that a representative of the Ombudsman and a representative of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights presented very similar comments to this law. In particular, the latter indicated that the authorisation for journalists to reside in a border area significantly deviates from international accreditation standards allowing journalists to access certain areas in emergency situations. He also pointed out the need to allow the presence of social organisations providing humanitarian aid in the border area and to provide legal assistance to all complainants who, under the provisions of the law, would be exposed to various disadvantages. He also pointed out that the provisions of the law would hit the residents of the border area heavily. Control, search of things and vehicles, no visitors, etc. There are only a few comments from the Ombudsman's representative that I have made to myself... Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law on the Protection of the State Border by the fact that it does not specify the maximum time limit within which a prohibition on the presence in a specific area in the border area may be established is incompatible with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution, as it leaves the Minister issuing the regulation complete freedom to define the temporal aspects of the restriction of constitutional freedom of movement. In addition, it should be noted that as set out in Article. 12b. 2 categories of persons excluded from the prohibition to reside in a specific area in the border area are, in fact, a repetition of the categories listed in paragraph 2. 1 Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 2 September 2021 on restrictions on freedom and rights in connection with the introduction of an emergency state. This shows that, apart from the state of emergency, the legislator wishes to maintain the human and social regulations applicable to the state. The important thing that the Ombudsman's representative has also raised is that a separate discussion requires the question that Article. 12b. 1 Law on the protection of the state border among persons excluded from the prohibition referred to in Article. 12a paragraph. 1, journalists have not been mentioned. The public has the right to know from independent sources what action is being taken by public authorities in an area that is not widely available. These actions are taken on behalf of and on behalf of that society 4th Constitution of the Republic of Poland It has the right to be informed by independent sources of the way in which it is carried out. According to the Ombudsman, the failure to place journalists in the article. 12b. 1 Law on the Protection of the State Border of the Catalogue of Entities not covered by the prohibition referred to in Article. 12a paragraph. 1, directly deprives citizens of the right to reliable information, the right to public disclosure and the right to control and social criticism. Consequently, this leads directly to the deprivation of society's basic tools enabling its members to influence the course of public life in the country. The constitutional freedom to obtain information cannot be regulated, additionally on the basis of a provision which leaves the authority complete freedom to determine whether, when, to whom, under what conditions and for how long to grant the privilege of exercising this constitutional freedom. This raises serious reservations. To all these comments In short, I mentioned only the most important ones, said the Deputy Minister, who de facto did not agree with the legal arguments of the speakers and asked for the adoption of the law without amendments, in accordance with a proposal previously submitted by Senator Martynowski, supported by Senator Komorowski. At the same time, the Minister pointed out that many of the concerns raised by the Senate legislature were governed by other earlier laws. I'll talk a little bit later. Senators Pęcherz, Gromek, Frankiewicz and Senator Komorowski spoke in a very emotional speech about the fact that the discussions conducted by the senators of the Senators of the Senate point to the ignorance of threats in border areas, and in such situations academic discussions should not take place. And the Senators of the majority strongly emphasized that perhaps everyone cared about the security of our borders, that our country's borders should be very well and professionally protected, because the border must be well guarded, but let us not forget about humanitarianism, humanitarian aid for people, and people who cross the border legally or not need help. The minister was asked if it was really difficult to predict that the extension of the state of emergency for the next two months might not be sufficient. According to the Constitution, this could be done for a maximum of 150 days in total, and if the situation had settled earlier, these restrictions could have been abandoned or applied incompletely. They also asked about it. This is also in the context of what the Deputy Minister said, which is specifically governed by this law, because this law does not solve practically any problems. If other regulations are examined, such as crisis management, uniformed services or national border protection in an epidemic situation, we will find that these regulations also allow for the implementation of the tasks referred to by the law, in addition to one issue, namely the selective selection of journalists who will have the grace to find themselves in the border area. Finally, the question was: why is this a solution suddenly? That's what we've been thinking about. Of course, I'm not gonna get into this right now. If there's any questions, I'll talk about it. In any event, despite the unconstitutional provisions of the Act, the senators of the Senate made it clear that, in their understanding of the seriousness of the situation and threats at the border, in response to a request submitted by Senator Martynowski and supported by Mr Komorowski, they did not make a request to the contrary, i.e. to reject this law, and they proposed amendments to this law. The proposal to adopt the law without amendments was not accepted by the majority of the joint committees, 3 of the 4 amendments tabled were accepted by the majority of the committees. They concern primarily the access of journalists to the border, as well as the limitation of the area to the one covered by the emergency situation today, and the question of helping businesses working in the border area. The amendment law was adopted by most senators. The committees are asking the High Senate to adopt the bill together with these 3 amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present a minority proposal, report to the minority committee on the law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. In fact, it must be said that the opinion of the Legislative Bureau has probably moved everyone. When we discussed this law, we found that this opinion was amazing. It categorically states that the bill is unconstitutional, practically misses the facts. That's the grade. Only legislators, and the Constitutional Tribunal is entitled to rule on constitutionality. The basis for this non-compliance with the Constitution was Article. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, which refers to when the act can be given urgent procedure. We do not fully share the view expressed by the legislators that this urgent procedure could not be applied to this law. The question should be asked what would happen, what would happen at the border, what would still have to happen so that in the Polish Parliament there would be an urgent and urgent response to events directly at the border, threatening our sovereignty, our security. The fact that we can sit here quietly today, argue, discuss, etc., that the state can function is only because the border for today is tight, that we guard this border, that the border of Poland is, you can say, intact, although there are still attempts to cross it illegally. It's in this article. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 legislators or legislators stated... This article states that the Council of Ministers may consider the draft adopted by the Council of Ministers to be urgent, with the exception of draft tax laws, laws on the election of the President, the Sejm, the Senate and local authorities And here's the note. Laws governing the system and jurisdiction of public authorities, as well as codes. The liaison between the two connecting coordinates was considered by the legislators to be the co-connector of the co-ordinate. It happened... In view of the above, the issue of regulating the system was as if it had been separated here. We do not share that view. The legislators have stated whether the legislator has stated that this consistency at this point is enumerating rather than enumerating, i.e. enumerating. Indeed, the case law of the provincial courts on this subject is different. But also this Provincial Administrative Court in Gliwice in Case 1742/07 stated that in fact this consistency may be enumerative, but it depends on the context and adequacy of the phrases used. If the legislator had really wanted it to be a separation, he would have used the statement "or," "or," "or," "or "or" or "a comma," or "a comma" would have pointed it out. Here, on the other hand, the Codes are also added. So it's hard for us to believe that this is enumerative. And since it's not enumerational, the urgency of this bill can be given. It could be donated. And the claim later... Because, as a result, the legislator later comes into question whether the law regulates the jurisdiction of the public authorities. And there in its analysis it appears that it can actually be considered as standardising the question of the jurisdiction of public authorities, because it refers to the territory Because the local jurisdiction of the court is also a matter of territory. As a consequence, it claims that the law is not proportionate in relation to the detention penalty for breaching the prohibitions laid down in that law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, bans are... what's a ban worth if there's no sanctions? Well, you have to say, there's no ban. Such a ban is practically not a ban, which means we can do it at the border. To enter, etc. Whatever we want. This ban has been placed under... This is a misdemeanor. So there's no hard statement that it's a felony, etc., just a misdemeanor. As a result, sanctions are imposed on account of the offence. If a legislator accuses of non-constitutionality, and the sanction seems disproportionate to the social harm done, he thus de facto accuses non-constitutionality in relation to the code of offences. Well, it's as if we're going as a result. We read further in the opinion that there is a ban on moving, choosing a place of residence, etc., etc. Well, it's the opposite. I mean, it's the law in the article. 12b. 1 says that this prohibition does not apply to persons who are permanently resident, who are engaged in economic activities there, who are engaged in employment. The question is, can another person live there all the time? Well, of course he can live there all the time. After all, this law does not prohibit the acquisition of real estate in this area, nor does it prohibit registration in this area. She's supposed to regulate the way she's been there and the way she's doing things. Nor do we share the view that the law is unconstitutional in terms of freedom of the press and social media, as well as the individual's right to have access to public information and the freedom to obtain and disseminate information. Well, the mouth is specifically added. 2 In this article, where it is said that the guard, the commandant of the Border Guard facility, may allow journalists to be present, is even emphasized there: in particular journalists. The point is that journalists are not left out because they are entitled and entitled to be in this area, but they have the right to be there in a civilized way, not to run with a camera across the entire border. And further statements in the famous opinion of the Legislative Bureau:....by means of a sub-law Ladies and gentlemen, what is this concept? We opposed it at the committee meeting. By way of a sub-routine act... What's the name of the Legal Office? Well, the legislator seems to have forgotten about the article. 87. 1 the Constitution, which treats the Regulation as a source of universal law. So using the word "subsistence" gives... In our view, it kind of leads us to believe that this opinion of the Legislative Office is biased. Well, there's just nothing else. It is the law that imposes all these sharpenings, and the regulation in a technical manner is to regulate only this and that is in line with the Constitution. I would like to put two points to the end of the report, and I would like to make two points in the debate. In his conclusion, the legislator stated that the law should not become part of the Polish legal order and, as the rapporteur of the majority of committees said, no amendments to the bill were able to change its negative legal assessment. The amendments tabled were not supported by the Legislative Bureau at the meeting of the committee, even vice versa. The Legislative Bureau, in relation to some amendments, stated that these amendments, in the view of the Legislative Bureau, were incompatible with the Constitution. But the committee, because it has the majority, practically intercourse 8 to 6... The Commission voted on these amendments, which were not recommended by the Legislative Office, as they are either incompatible with the Constitution, or simply in the opinion of the Bureau, following the introduction of these amendments, the law or these provisions will continue to be incompatible with the Constitution. And I don't know, I didn't understand... With Senator Mark. We didn't make any amendments to Martynów, we just applied for a bill without amendments. And in this speech... I didn't get it. Therefore, in conclusion, it must be concluded that the minority proposal is such as to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Mariusz Gromko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u222	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Mark Komorowski. Mr. Senator, you, like me, are a senator from the Podlaskie Voivodeship, from the Voivodeship, where the crisis related to illegal migration is mainly concentrated. During the committee meeting, guests suggested that people already had enough restrictions on the state of emergency, because it makes it difficult to move. Do you, in your parliamentary, senatorial practice, as Senator of the Podlasie land, have such opinions? Are people reporting to you who are complaining about this state or, on the contrary, are very pleased with the government's action at the border, the fact that outsiders are not allowed to move in a state of emergency belt, which gives people a sense of security?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u223	As far as I'm concerned... There's, like, two lines here. I meet with voters in my office, with residents, I meet with them, performing a senator's mandate, moving around the territory of the voivodship, in my district, but also throughout the whole Podlasie voivodship. It must definitely be said that people are happy... I mean, they're not happy with the situation at the border. - Just so we're clear. But they are pleased with the government's efforts to protect and defend them. By these actions, by concentrating forces and means, they feel safe in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u224	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u225	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Komorowski, who was talking about the subroutine files. He defined it as an expression, I'll say it gently, a small professionalism of legislators. Hence the question. Does the senator, as a lawyer, know that the sub-laws, which are lower than the law, are found in the doctrine of constitutional law and case law? Does the senator, as a former self-government officer, know that we include, for example, the acts of sub-laws. Local law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u226	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u227	Mr. Senator, in the context of this opinion... We're talking about the situation at the border, because this bill is practically... [[But that's not what I'm asking.]] Yeah, I know. An earlier border protection bill... [[I'm asking if you know the definition of a sub-act.]] Senator, using the concept of a sub-law act in the opinion, where, in accordance with the Constitution, a regulation is a universal law... This should be for the legislator as if it were important. The statement concerning a sub-act in this sense gives such a pejorative wording of the entire opinion of the Legislative Bureau and I, as if I did not share it. In my opinion, this is an unnecessary statement in this particular opinion. It is known that there are laws and there are acts below the law, issued by local governments, etc., etc., there are regulations, but about regulations... means regulations, I apologize. We're talking about constitutional compatibility, so we're referring to the constitution. In this context, I refer here to the Constitution, not to other provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u228	Thank you very much. Senator Kwiatkowski would like to ask one more question, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u229	Yes. I'd like to ask if the senator understands that there's a legal definition of sub-acts and therefore... Let me repeat the question: does he know about this definition and can he say what is then unprofessional in the use of the commonly accepted legal nomenclature, which is found in the doctrine of constitutional law, case law... There's a whole directory of subroutines. Where is this lack of professionalism of legislators? I'll defend their good name. You said it wasn't true.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u230	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u231	Senator, in the context of the opinion of the act, that is, the situation at the border... and thus by means of a sub-law act, when the article. 87. 1 the Constitution says that it is the source of the law... that I find it inappropriate. I'm not saying here... And stating directly that this is contrary to the Constitution, while the Constitutional Tribunal finds that it is contrary to the Constitution... All the time, these issues of the unconstitutionality of laws leaving the Sejm appear in our various debates. This is difficult matter, this is delicate matter, requiring consideration and in-depth analysis, but we should sort of stand here above divisions and say that the most important good is the good of the country. And this good is violated, our border is violated. And finding that some kind of subroutine act... I think right now, in this place, it's like it's not enough... to use a good word here... Anyway, I wouldn't use that word underlaw. We can argue whether the regulation concerns technical or non-technical issues, because we also discussed this at the committee meeting, but I would never use in this context a confrontation with the constitution, such a word that it is a sub-routine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u232	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I have a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. In the opinion of the two Senators, if we adopt this law in this form, without amendments, will it be possible to introduce the restrictions set out in the various areas of the country, not necessarily in the border area? Do you think the senators feel that this is the case or not? Because there are discrepancies here, I'd like to get an answer from both the senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u234	Thank you kindly. Which one of the senators would like to answer first? Senator Komorowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u235	This law is a law on the protection of the state border, so those prohibitions which would have been imposed if the law had been passed without amendments would have affected this border area, not the whole country. It's hard to see the whole country as a border zone, which means we're protecting the border, I don't know, somewhere in the middle of the country. So this is directly related to this part of the border. But there wasn't such a big discussion in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u236	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u237	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a problem in general in this House and in the committees that when we say that our office is unconstitutional, we resent that this is not true. Remember the situation we had in the envelope elections. There were a number of legal opinions in which it was stressed that the solutions contained there were non-constitutional. Nevertheless, the senators of this web page believed that everything was legal, after which it turned out to be what it turned out to be. And so it is now the problem that, in fact, if the Ombudsman, if the Senate Legislative Office, if the representatives of other organisations say the same practically, speak of non-constitutional records, it is difficult to disagree with that. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not gonna discuss it with a lawyer who tells me it's an unconstitutional record. When I was here for two years, and before 12 years as president, I know that... well, if there was something in the bill, I didn't discuss whether it was true or not, even when I didn't like the records, until these entries in the bill or in the regulation had changed, I had to apply them. As to the senator's question, I would say that following the lead, I think, of the senator's thoughts, it would be possible to conclude that similar laws could be introduced concerning another area of the Republic of Poland. We were at the committee meeting fully aware of what we were doing by making amendments. Senator Komorowski said that when it comes to introducing these amendments, even our legislator said it was unconstitutional. As for one, four, which we simply did not support, and that is why there are three, was the statement directly by the legislator that it is unconstitutional and perhaps even against European Union law, so we withdrew. As far as the others are concerned, knowing that the bill is unconstitutional, we make these amendments so that, if the majority accept it, they are included in the bill. And that was our philosophy at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'd like to, I'm so sorry...]] Additional question Mr. Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u239	I mean, clarification. The Senator rapporteur for the minority said that the title of this law, which indicates that it concerns border areas, is enough for this, but I have a question about content. Is it clearly indicated somewhere in the content that it will certainly not apply to other areas and it is not possible to extend this zone e.g. 5, 10, 15, 20 km? Can I be calm that this concerns only the border area, or is there any doubt about the content of the bill during the committee's deliberations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u240	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u241	Well, in general, I can say that at the meeting of the committee, the representative of the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Minister calmed everyone down, said not to even worry about those records that concern restrictions, because after all, it is possible to come to Christmas, in theory I can be at the family's house for Christmas, because maybe I will be at the service, at the pastor's service, and then I can get permission to do so. So that the tranquillity was big. [[And we believed that?]] Yeah, well, I don't want to go into any other consideration, 'cause that wasn't the case at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, then let me ask you a question. 'Cause as far as I'm concerned... [[A question for me?]] Yes. Well, to both of your rapporteurs. It's about this aspect that... I need you to measure my time. I'm talking to the secretary's senator. 'Cause I have the same rules. I mean, we are talking about the state border, but if we consider that Poland is in the European Union, the concept of the border is twofold today: we have the border of the Polish state, the same on Bug and the same on Oder, then the border of our brightest Republic, except that the border on Bug, unlike the border on Oder, is the external border of the European Union. I understand that law and restrictions on civil rights, etc. concern only the part of the border which is part of the external border of the European Union. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u243	Yes, these restrictions apply to this area. And as far as the area is concerned, we have here an amendment so that it will be limited to what we are talking about today in an exceptional state, so that it will overlap with this area. We're talking about this area in the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u245	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, who has just answered questions that are currently on the speaker. In view of what you have just said, I would ask you to respond to the article. The 12th Act on the State Border, which is an article. 12 states - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 12, which was and which is that the border zone covers the entire area of municipalities adjacent to the state border and on the maritime section. But we're interested in this land segment. In the context of this article, do you still see any problem that this will be undefined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u246	In the context of this article, we see such a problem that it may not concern this area, which we already have as if the state of emergency had been regulated at that moment until 2 December 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. If there are no further questions... There isn't. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? This question was rhetorical because I have already seen Minister Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration heading towards the stand. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have no doubt the honor of presenting today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Minister. I would ask the senators to remain calm in the courtroom during all the speeches, including during the Minister's speech. And please continue, Minister.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the undoubted privilege of representing the Polish government today with this urgent and important bill. I listened attentively to the reports of Senator Bladder and Senator Komorowski. However, some issues seem to have to be settled here, so I have taken the liberty of taking the floor. First of all, so that there is no doubt: the law speaks of restrictions only in the border area, i.e. an area which is defined in the Law on the Protection of the State Border. It is about 15 km along the state border, and these restrictions can only be imposed on the part of the border which is the external border of the Schengen area. These restrictions are kind of dedicated to this border crisis that we have. As we know, the Emergency Act doesn't allow... The Constitution does not allow certain restrictions in the form of a state of emergency to be extended, but allows certain restrictions to be introduced by law. And that's why we're talking about the bill, these restrictions are legal. I would like to remind you that there are several laws that talk about restricting movement, and none of us have doubts about their constitutionality. That's for example. a law on forests, which in a specific situation of danger gives the fortress the possibility of banning entry into state forests. In my opinion, the woods belonging to the Treasury are between 25% a 30% of the territory of Poland. And that's a recipe that never raised any doubts. About your constitutionality. The second example is, for example, water law, which imposes a ban on the rampart manager when this could be a threat. Of course, no one's questioning that rule. And finally, the law that we're working on, which we're updating, the law on the state border, gives the voivodeship at this point. Listen to the state: the voivodeship law to prohibit entry to the border lane. In fact, around Poland there is this border road belt, apart from coastal areas. The governor may therefore prohibit entry into this area. We thought in this extraordinary situation... Because the situation is, of course, unique. I hope that we all agree that the situation is special when we sit here. We thought that our border services, our Border Guard, the Polish Army and the Police, people who today were in the snow, in the rain, in the cold, in the cold, sometimes in the water. They are standing at the border and guarding it, a tool must be given that will make their work more productive. Ladies and gentlemen, when we examine the rules that restricted the movement in this zone at the border of Poland with Belarus, we can say that they gave the services much more room for manoeuvre than in the period before the separation of the zone. I speak to border guards who stress that these provisions on the introduction of an emergency state were extremely beneficial from the point of view of the protection of the state border. I would also like to stress that I have spoken to police officers who say that restricting access to a given territory significantly improves the effectiveness of the police in prosecuting smugglers. Indeed, this gives us the opportunity to carry out certain tasks in a much more efficient way. That is why we have decided as a government to submit to Parliament. First to the Sejm and later to the Senate, of course. An urgent project, the main element of which is, of course, the maintenance of this zone. This will also provide better conditions for companies that are about to build a firewall at the state border. I am convinced that this will also strengthen, improve this process. I don't agree with the opinions you've given here, and the opinions you've presented to Senator Bladder. Well, he was talking about the doubts that legislators have. I would like to stress that neither the legislators of the Government Legislative Centre nor the legislators of the Sejm have raised such doubts. This view of Senate legislators seems to be isolated here. Like I said... I'm gonna go over this recipe. Well, it's an emergency bill. The Constitution states that the Council of Ministers may consider the draft law which it has adopted to be urgent, with the exception of draft tax laws concerning the election of the President of the Republic, the Sejm, the Senate and local authorities, laws governing the system and jurisdiction of public authorities. There is a regulated jurisdiction of the public authorities, but there is no regulation of the system. Here is the coherence of the "and," so, as we are assured by lawyers who know it very well, you have to read it together. Then this bill may be an urgent act. As for the exclusion of accessibility, I would stress... And I'm going to give you an example of one more law that was passed in 2008, probably a law on the control of infectious diseases. This law gives a delegation to restrict, by means of a regulation, public gatherings, i.e. it affects a law which is extremely sensitive in terms of civil liberties. But this law also gives the possibility to issue a regulation ordering you to stay in certain places or prohibiting you from staying in certain places. We therefore believe that these doubts are unfounded and we ask the High Senate to adopt this law. The government wants this bill to enter into force as soon as possible. It's obvious, that's why it's urgent. I am pleased that the proposal to adopt this law without amendments has been tabled, but I also understand that the submission of amendments to this proposal constitutes a certain vote of distrust of the opinion expressed by the legislators. After all, I cannot imagine that one of your senators would propose amendments to a law which is fundamentally unconstitutional. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. And, of course, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to say that my request to your senators not to have loud conversations during speeches is addressed not only to the senators, but to everyone in this Chamber. I would ask you not to speak loudly during the speeches because we are in the Senate Chamber. I would like to inform you that the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. The first question is: does the Minister share the view that the use of legal acts is inappropriate?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u251	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u252	I'm not a lawyer, Senator, and I wouldn't want to deal with that. I'm not able to relate to that view. [[Second question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u253	Thank you very much. I understand, Senator, that this will now be the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u254	Yes, yes, now the second question, of course. The consequence of the zones that were introduced by the previous law and which will be introduced as a consequence of this law is that the facilities that operate in the zone, such as hotels, restaurants, in practice cannot function. Of course, it's the ones that are in the zone. Does the Minister know if compensation has been paid to entrepreneurs who have their facilities closed because they operate in the zone? I'm talking about the compensation the government had announced.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u256	Thank you very much for this question, because it seems that you can answer it briefly. I spoke to the Podlaskie Voivode last week and had the assurance that by the end of this week all these funds resulting from the applications would be paid. I think it's similar when it comes to Lublin Voivodeship. I would also like to stress that fear has great eyes of course and of course this law hits the hotel industry the most... well, the act or rather the state of emergency most hits the hotel industry, the limitation of movement will also theoretically hit the hotel industry. However, I would like to tell you that we have 15,000 troops there on the border, 4,000 border guards and 2,000 police officers and they live in these facilities, and very often it is a good business for owners of these facilities. Let's not regret it. Plus, they're still getting compensation... sorry, compensation of 65%. non-tax revenues. Of course, I can't guarantee that the military and the police will rent every facility in the zone, but I know of at least a few facilities in Białowieża, which are in the zone and which are occupied. And the military and the police are good paying agents, well, they regularly regulate their invoices, they don't have any backlogs, so there's no problem here. And, of course, he's also entitled to compensation. There is one problem in the case of larger facilities, indeed, in the event of an extension of this limitation there may be a rapid exhaustion of de minimis aid, i.e. the aid which the European Union allows to grant to entrepreneurs without penalty, so to speak. We talked about this at the Seym stage, and he made comments in this respect, among others. Mr Tyszkiewicz, but I also talked to Minister Patkowski about this, and he promised a week ago that he would present a solution within two weeks that would satisfy entrepreneurs, because either we could obtain the European Commission's approval for more than de minimis aid, or there would be another solution that would be beneficial, and as if this had been solved. I would also like to stress that, as far as the substance of the question is concerned, yes, all these obligations are regulated, we are within deadlines.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u257	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u258	I'd like to ask you a question, Minister. I would like to ask if the objectives set in the added article. 12a Act In other words, if security or public order is to be ensured in the border area, etc. It is very important that we adopt this amendment, which was tabled at the committee meeting, which limits the achievement of these objectives only to the area referred to in the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 2 September 2021. Would it not be possible to achieve these objectives in another part of the Polish border if necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u259	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This law is so designed that these objectives could be achieved if, for example, the crisis moved. to the Polish-Ukrainian border or to the Polish border with the Kaliningrad region. If we were to make this amendment... I am generally opposed to these amendments. I believe that they are interfering with the implementation of the objectives of this law. And I do not think that we would have achieved these objectives if this amendment had passed. My recommendation concerns the amendments I have seen here. Despite the fact that I regard them as a failure to reach the senators' consciousness of this unconstitutionality... If we're working on a bill, it means we're giving it a chance, which means that the argument that the bill is unconstitutional is wrong. After all, Despite this positive view of the submission of amendments I am against these amendments because they seem to distort the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u261	Thank you very much. As I can see, no further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you, too.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. [[Voice from the room: He's out.]] No, he didn't. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Kwiatkowski just comes to us from a slightly different angle. Let's hope that's where the list of surprises your senator has given us ends. And we're looking forward to your speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We had guests in the Senate two days ago from companies from areas that are in a closed zone. We hosted here the hotel's director, Białowieża Żubrówka from Białowieża, restaurant owners Carska, restaurant owner Tatarska Jurta, hotel owner Białowieża from Białowieża. And I can continue like this. None of these entrepreneurs got a dime, despite the application. I admit there was one entrepreneur in this group... Actually, it was a woman. And she got that compensation. It was a woman who runs a guesthouse in Lublin Voivodeship. Those who are from Białowieża, from Kruszynian, from other areas of the Podlaskie voivodship did not receive any gold compensation. Why am I talking about this? I understand that there are certain circumstances when the Polish state says: in this particular situation we must introduce certain restrictions. But then the responsibility of the state is that I say so, to take these people seriously. That's why I'm consciously using specific company names. Minister, you say this is an excellent business for those entrepreneurs who are in uniform. It's a good thing they're there. You just need to know what it looks like in practice. The rate of meals for the whole day is 44 PLN, for all meals. These entrepreneurs stand at the height of the task to make it the best meals possible, because we are talking about officers who protect the Polish border, who often at night... Of course, this uniforming for well-known reasons, as you walk through forests and swamps, is in a certain state. These officers then return to hotels or other facilities. I'm talking about it because this isn't about someone wanting to make money and do some business or, like you said, he's got a good business. The point is, these people are in a dramatic situation, and we really need to do everything we can to get this help to them. If you're about to say that the Podlaskie Voivodeship just sent you the money, I'll give you the first clap, and tomorrow I'll see if they're already in the bank account of those entrepreneurs who said they didn't get the money yesterday when they were here. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, realizing that in the case of some of these facilities, as well as hotels, these are establishments that employ several dozen people, I must say that this amount of aid, which results from de minimis aid, is, of course, too small. We must remember that de minimis aid is in force for three years. So if someone is receiving help now because they had a closed hotel in September or October or November, he will no longer be able to benefit from this assistance until November 2024. That is why we are proposing an amendment in this regard. She has already been reported to be a statutory basis to go out with the help of those who do not want to earn money, but want to function normally. And let me repeat: here there is no criticism from me, here is the statement that in certain situations the Polish state must also bear the consequences of its decisions and we are not talking about the negative consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to talk about the amendments that have already been adopted by the committee. The admission of journalists. Please note that today we are in a dramatic situation with regard to the image of the Polish state Lukashenka decides which journalist, under what rules and what he will show exclusively from the Belarusian side. This, of course, is a terrible situation. We want Polish journalists to be able to show what the real situation at the border is. You proposed that this decision be taken by the border commandant in justified cases. What does regulation mean in justified cases? This is, of course, an underprecision regulation. It means in practice that it is the intention of the legislator to make this decision unverifiable on the basis of statutory criteria. And here again, I'm not criticizing it, I'm describing it. We do not have a way of making decisions based on clearly described criteria. Yeah, we think it's a mistake because we're gonna be seeing each other again. For a change, we, with the situation that we will say that we, too, are discretionaryly showing what is happening at the border. The same is true of the area... In practice, what you are proposing is, of course, an extension of this area, and you say it yourself. Mr. Minister was just talking about it. That the rules of the past have come true. Hence another Senate amendment to keep this area as it was. And, of course, what I was talking about, i.e. issues of assistance to entrepreneurs. Please note that I am not attacking the law here. I'm showing some things that can be better saved, not in confrontation mode, but in such a way that we can work together to find better solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Can I ad vocem?]] Minister, I'm sorry, but there's no formula. You, Minister, will still be able to comment on this at the end of the debate. Please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. [[Voices from the room: Remotely, remotely.]] What do you mean, remotely? [[Voices from the O.R.: Next, you don't have...]] As I understand it, you don't have a marshal. In that case, please take the floor of Senator Bury. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u264	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by quoting:.I stand on the obvious conclusion for every Polish citizen that the highest legal act is the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Do you know who said that two months ago? Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, when the superiority of EU law on the Polish constitution was considered in Poland. Today, in this House, we have the next debate on a law on which the main charge is that it is unconstitutional. Lawyers say this piece of legislation is not constitutional. How does the government act at this point and the Law and Justice? They say no, everything's fine. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, have a point of view... [[Conversations of the room]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Minister, during your speech, I made sure no one disturbed you, and I think you'll agree that I did. I would very much ask that you and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, whose comfort I also took care of, do not interfere with the presence of the venerable Senator from Lublin from the Senate stand.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm going back to the point. Does the point of view depend on the point of the seat? When you have to hide from the constitution, the Prime Minister is hiding. When we say that some bill that you're trying to pass is unconstitutional, we say, no, it's not unconstitutional, we think it's okay and we won't listen to lawyers. I know you have, Dear Sirs of Law and Justice, a majority in parliament that will allow you to push through every piece of legislation. But is it good, or is it right? I will not refer to those five basic allegations that lawyers make as arguments for unconstitutionality. This includes, for example, the possibility of extending the state of emergency to an endless extent, not under the control of Parliament, but only on the basis of the extension of that state by the competent minister or restrictions on access and freedom of the press. There's a lot of charges. I wouldn't be me if, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't offer any solutions. We're wasting our time discussing this bill here, and we could have done it a little differently. The history of Polish law knows cases where the lower instance did not end the proceedings and already higher said. Maybe we should do the same in this case. We know of situations where a higher instance in the case of even the current minister, who again, I see, is speaking in the cockroaches, has ruled that before the sentence is passed, the Minister has actually experienced the grace of the President. It may be so, ladies and gentlemen, that before something becomes valid and enters into force, it is possible to act in a higher instance. Let's ask the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska whether this law is constitutional or not, and then let's debate it. We're wasting a lot of time here. I'm being a little ironic, because it seems to me that you're going to push this bill through as much as you want, and you're going to reject our amendments, which are wise and that lead to respect for civil rights and the constitution, while at the same time ensuring a solution in this situation. Because the point is that the Polish border is actually defended and that Polish citizens are safe, but it can happen without violating the Constitution and civil rights of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. You're a little late with that bill, that's what I think. As we know, this problem on the border has been growing since somebody else, and the government is not really interested in solving this problem properly. Frontex was not asked, NATO, representatives of these organizations were not asked to come to the border and give support to a Polish soldier, the Polish Border Guard. You didn't want to cross-nationalize this conflict because, I get the feeling, this conflict kind of fits some people. As I say, it's my guess, and if it were, I'd be devastated. This bill is supposed to allow this conflict to continue. But, ladies and gentlemen, the president said he didn't recognize anybody talking over our heads trying to get along with Putin or Lukashenka. He said that about Angela Merkel. As we can see, the European Union has worked. We're in a community that took care of... taking care of herself, taking care of us Poles. This conflict is dwindling. Let us hope that Putin will soon come to his senses that Lukashenka, too, will understand where he belongs. But I get the feeling that your toys have been taken away and you're thinking, what are we gonna scare people if we don't have a conflict? We'll take care of it, ladies and gentlemen, which is important. I see that because this conflict has dwindled, and very well that it is dwindling, we had to go back to the real issues. Yesterday the minister... not the minister I'm sorry. Your Marshal Witek has finally begun to notice the problem of pandemics and the fact that many people are dying in Poland. These are real problems we should be dealing with. Today, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about the cost, that the government noticed the problem Finally, after a long time and that he intends to introduce a package. I hope he'll be good and effective. I applaud if someone tries to fight this expensive thing. It's a shame it's so late. It's a pity that you've made this problem on your own, leading one rather than another economic policy. But it's time to wake up. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is needed to some extent, but I appeal: let us not break the law, let us not break the constitution. This is not the way to ensure security and legal well-being for Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, ma'am, but it looks like we're having trouble connecting with your marshal for the time being. In that case, I beg your pardon, but this is the second time we've tried. Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On to our border... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...inspired by the Belarusian regime. Records show they're extremely aggressive people who... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...to comply with the orders of the Polish service. These people are committing acts of violence against our state's officers, and this is not about accidental aggression, but about coordinated attacks that are a direct threat to the health and life of our soldiers, border guards and police officers. The scale is massive. Emigrants are staying in Belarus as tourists who voluntarily flew to this country... Looking for better economic conditions, they trample the laws of Poland and its citizens, they agree to be tools in the hands of the Belarusian and Russian regime. You can't explain it. On the other side are Polish citizens, their lives, health and safety. Can you explain throwing pavements, stones, logs, bang grenades, gas, firecrackers, knife-to-neck training to take away the health and life of others, the desire to obtain social benefits, for example? Germany? Our officers have only one life, children, families. Don't we see it? All we're supposed to do is see pictures of children, women, often posing, and young men who are about to cross our borders with stones in their hands. The borders of our home, Poland, are like the doors to our apartment. We can throw them away... [[Disruption during the speech]] Let them come, and then we'll figure out who they are. So what if we have to support them? It's gonna be humane. We can work on them. As they will receive housing in a situation where many Polish citizens cannot afford it, it will also be humane. If they take away religious or civic freedom because they're offended, we won't even say anything because of the correctness. We have to wait until one of them decides to take his life. It's different when we help them where they live. It must be emphasized once again, and it must be said often that those who storm the Polish-Belarusian border are not refugees. Let me remind you: Art. 1 paragraph A point 2 of the Geneva Convention indicates who is a refugee and Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this convention... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...permissibility of repressive actions against those who have illegally arrived from Belarus territory. Let us stress that these are people voluntarily accepted by... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Belarusian. Their behavior, their words indicate that these people simply want to get into a world where you live a prosperous life, and that is the only motivation for illegal, illegal crossing our border. More prosperous is not tantamount to persecution. We remind you: these are not refugees, these are e.g. Iraqi citizens invited by the Belarusian regime, using Belarusian or Turkish airlines, having Belarusian... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...who want to get through Belarus to Poland and further to Western Europe. Legally, these people are tourists or economic migrants. They're just admitting that the target... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Germany and this because of the social benefits that are there. There's no use here... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...which the supporters of letting all people across our borders are calling for, of course, humanitarianally. Even if there were real refugees among these people, e.g. Jazydzi, it would not have been an absolute obligation for Poland to accept them, knowing that there is no war in Belarus, and that migrants are not threatened by any danger due to their race, religion, citizenship, this is art. 33 conventions. Besides, there's an art. 32: The State may expel even a person claiming refugee status. It is therefore all the more right not to let such a person in if public security or public order is at stake. The uncontrolled influx of people of unknown past, which we do not know, illegally across our borders, of course threatens the security of our country. Unfortunately, not only do some environments in Poland seem to fail to notice, but they seem to act against the interests of Poland, sometimes implementing the script of Lukashenka or Putin. They don't care where these people are from, what they've done in the past, if they're... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...where they're from. Even the undisputed fact that migrants are being used by these regimes to create a serious crisis in our region is not a problem for these communities. The experience of Western countries, which adopted a large number of migrants in 2015, and now face a growing wave of crime, moral and financial problems, prompts reflection on the subject of uncontrolled illegal reception of crowds, especially from other cultural circles. These people do not assimilate and do not intend to follow our cultural customs and standards. There are painful experiences of Germany, France, Great Britain or Sweden. Who's to blame... [[Disruption during the speech]] Isn't there going to be Poland and its citizens? Migrants? Or maybe the so-called. opposition and environments associated with it, which, knowing about the threat, so carelessly and recklessly fight under the banner of very often false humanitarianism? It is important that the European Union does not want any real help in protecting... [[Disruption during the speech]] It is not only that, when protecting the European Union's external border, we do not receive more aid from the real Union, but we are also expected to abandon one of the methods used to stop the pressure of migrants. The truth is, those who shout the loudest about letting a crowd of people in under the auspices of Lukashenka do not actually risk anything. The opposition will not bear the responsibility and consequences of its actions. Do they care about the problems of a common, gray man who will have to deal with the aggression of these people? It's not their daughters who will be the victims of cultural behavior where a woman isn't... [[Disruption during the speech]] It is not their families who will feel fear, entering some, and then more and more settlements of different migrants. We have this comfortable situation that we can learn from the experiences of others. In this situation, the Pole may be wise after injury, but not his own, but Western European societies. We don't have to go through what they're going through. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...that the current actions of both tandem Russia Belarus, as well as often the European Union, are not meant to fight for human rights. This is a cynical fight for business and a zone of influence. The arguments for protecting poor refugees are merely a tool of political pressure. Therefore, any legislative initiative aimed at improving the protection of our borders deserves to be taken into account. So is this one, at this point. Of course, perhaps with the corrections. Nobody... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...right to life. At the same time, we have the right to protect ourselves, to keep our citizens, our children safe. Human rights include not only migrants but also us. We have not only the right, but also the duty to defend our homeland, and thus our cultural identity, our Christian identity. It is thanks to her that we can now live in a free country where no one, including refugees, is persecuted, but is often helped. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u267	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Why do you need governments? Or else: when are governments most needed to society? Not when life is going on in a predictable way, and not to scare society of its problems. Governments are most needed to indicate how to solve problems in specific, unpredictable situations, and return to normal as soon as possible. I have the impression that in Poland for 6 years we have been dealing with a government that sees its role in the opposite way, which is to ensure that it is not normal and that we live in an atmosphere of constant danger and exceptional state. Of course, sometimes governments have to deal with really specific situations. E.g. The PO-PSL government had to deal with the deepest global financial crisis since the 20th century. [[And OFE, and with retirement age.]] This government has done so that today many Poles are not even aware that this crisis has taken place and has also taken over Poland. They teach that at all universities. The current government, Law and Justice, too, comes to face difficult situations. One is a pandemic, the other is a crisis at the border with Belarus. The government deals with the pandemic in such a way that we beat the records of disease and mortality due to coronavirus. Even the Prime Minister's Medical Council calls for restrictions on non-vaccines, and the government does not take any action because the polls show that his electorate would not like it. You prefer to empathize Poles with information about beating further records of mortality. And like a government Is he dealing with the refugee problem at the border with Belarus, with the problem clearly generated by the Lukashenka regime? First of all, according to its own author's strategy, the government is determined to ensure that the problem does not disappear too quickly and that it is the government that has the right to know and decide on this matter. This was the purpose of introducing a state of emergency and closing the media's access to information about what is really happening at the border. This was served by the stubborn and ongoing reprimand of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency officers to protect this border. Of course, it is a mockery to say that the Border Guard and without Frontex can handle border protection. We need Frontex to stop conflicting with Belarus as a matter of Poland and become a conflict between the European Union and NATO and the Schengen area. The problem is that such a solution is received by the PiS mentioned earlier monopoly on knowledge of what is happening at the border, because no politician will be able to close his mouth with an order, as can be done with Polish officers. For the same reasons, the government does not want to solve the problem with refugees but with Belarus' involvement in the political dispute. And that's why politics was designed not to solve international disputes by putting walls and thousands of officers at the border. Such disputes are dealt with by political force. Poland has this strength, it lies in our presence in the European Union and NATO. It's in alliances that are today's strongest in our history. Why aren't we using them? Because that's the solution that the government takes away from the nurtured exclusivity to manage this crisis and manage information about it. It has become clear that our allies from NATO and the European Union are beginning to pressure Belarus themselves, for which they are criticized by the Polish President, although this already has positive results. Why aren't we using the economic blockade? PiS politicians prefer to talk about war, they shamelessly compare the current situation with the attack of the Soviet Union in 1939. This was the case in this Chamber, with this speaker comparing what is happening today on the border with Belarus, from 17 September 1939, the heroism of today's Border Guard officers was compared with the heroism of Polish soldiers dying in the defence war. With all due respect to the Border Guard, This is not a comparable case. And what kind of war is this, High Senate, if there's business with the enemy? During World War II, this attitude was called collaboration, and now hundreds of thousands of containers from China enter Poland without obstacles. In China it is already said out loud that transport to Europe will have to be arranged through Lithuania and Ukraine if Poland blocks this road. And in Poland, silence. The experts have no doubt that the total blockade of trade with Belarus could quickly put our neighbour's economy on its knees. Isn't that proof that the current government is not so much solving as cultivating this conflict? Why? Because it's easy to imagine what the Poles would be talking about if it weren't for the situation at the border. They would talk about rising prices, about a pandemic that the government doesn't control, about a tape series with ruling class scandals, about a discrediting government of an e-mail affair or finally about tens of billions of zlotys that cannot reach Poland, because internal intrigues and personal interests of the ruling class do not allow the government to meet the requirements that it agreed to almost six months ago. High Senate, this may sound brutal, but the conflict at the Polish-Belarusian border is excellent for covering up how this government is bad at solving internal problems. [[Voice from the hall: Thank God it's...]] Unfortunately, the proposed law is a continuation of existing activities, does not solve anything and does not bring the problem closer, while it clearly violates the constitution and violates personal rights and civil rights, exposes Polish companies to losses which the government does not want to bear, and still allows the government to manage information about what is really happening at the border. The promised consent to the presence of journalists in the border area is so constructed that it fully depends on the will of the decision-maker PiS-owski. At the beginning I said that the government is needed, among others. To restore normality. This government, which I hope I have shown, does not do and restore normality does not want. Experts, but also Polish generals warn that the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border can only be a test ground against more dangerous provocations, this time at 210 km on land and 22 km on the sea border with Russia. As it happens, this applies to my region, bordering the Kaliningrad circuit. Can this government be trusted not to take another threat as a good opportunity to cover internal problems? The conclusion of these considerations is clear: the Polish government does not perform the tasks to which it was called, does not fight the pandemic, does not resolve the conflict at the border with Belarus, proves that it is useless, like this law. Therefore, I will not support the solutions proposed in the bill. I do not want to take part in cultivating this conflict in order to cover up with it the problems that this government is not dealing with in the country. For these reasons, the bill is only suitable for throwing into the basket. But we are aware that this government can pass the bill, that's a good word, push through in the Sejm, so we will make a few amendments, which will at least regulate a few things better and reduce the power of the rulers, including information about what is happening in the border area. I hope that these amendments will find the support of most senators. High Senate, I do not touch the issue of refugees in my speech, but I am shocked by Senator Lydia Staron, who claims that Belarus is a good country for refugees and we Poles have no reason to support them. It is a pity that the senator does not remember or does not know how Poles escaped from a similarly free country, from the Polish People's Republic, e.g. Germany. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u269	Thank you, Senator. And I ask Senator Mark Komorowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We are in a difficult situation, difficult at the Polish-Belarusian border, independent of us. The conflict, of course, is inspired by the Lukashenka regime. And what is happening requires radical, immediate action by the state. Here I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Kaminski for his actions at the border, for defending and protecting Poland. The logistics range, 15,000 or more officers, the security of this whole action is simply unimaginable, and for that we must give our heartfelt thanks, the words of thanks are due to all uniformed services guarding our border. Showing, repeating the news that the lack of food, that soldiers sleep several on one bed, just doesn't serve the atmosphere that is there, and it doesn't serve us well as Poland. It was denied by the ministers, it was shown that such situations do not take place at all. The law we are talking about is to increase the effectiveness of the actions undertaken by the Border Guard. And I'm sure it's consistent with the purpose and spirit of the constitution. At this point I would like to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 immediately in the first words, in the preamble states: "For the sake of the existence and future of our Homeland... And then, thank you to our ancestors for fighting for independence with huge victims... And in the article. 1 states that the Republic of Poland is the common good of all citizens. In turn, in the article. 5 states that the Republic of Poland protects the independence and integrity of its territory. And in the article. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 provides that it is the duty of the Polish citizen to defend his homeland. We have nothing but these constitutional provisions. And that is what the legal act is about, which is now in the Senate. You are afraid of how it will be realized. She will be implemented as the situation requires. Actions will be appropriate to the situation. You're saying you're in favour, i.e. country from the Senate majority This, too, was at the committee meeting, and they say they support it. But it's not the words here that prove it, it's the actions. Introducing a state of emergency against. Extension of the emergency condition No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Border Security Act No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, now we're at the Border Protection Act; we'll see what the outcome of the vote is. However, the proposed amendments distort the meaning of this law and distort the possibility of effective protection. To conclude, I would like to quote a passage from the speech of the Senate Marshal Julian Szymański on 10 November 1928, on the tenth anniversary of regaining independence. After gaining independence, the great concern of present and future generations is to maintain the independence of the homeland. And then the marshal says, "We all know it, we all feel it." And that's the kind of reflection I wish all of us. Today, too, we face this challenge. A wall behind a Polish uniform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u271	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Marshal Marek Pak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It seemed to me at the last meeting, when I had a rather emotional statement, that already then certain limits allowed in the Polish Senate were exceeded, the boundaries of the debate, the boundaries for crossing what is the Polish reason of the state. Yeah, but today we have a follow-up. I speak of it with deep sorrow, with deep regret, but also with deep anger. Because it can't really be that you're having another total day in the Senate. First of all, a multi-hour debate on the covid situation, a pretext for an extremely political, demagogical resolution at a time when we are once again entering a difficult phase of coritos, like most European countries and the world. When the Polish state struggles with great effort in various ways with this pandemic for many, many months, triggering various medical procedures, aid, social, economic, gigantic support for entrepreneurs, gigantic financial support for health services, support that you did not dream of, when you ruled for many years, you have this particular nerve, this particular cynical political force, to use this matter again in such a disgusting way to warm up emotions in Poland. And this is the first aspect of this total debate: our internal situation. And now the second, even more outrageous and even more outrageous. Because I thought a case like border guarding should unite us. But of course not. You will stand on your head to show this matter in a curved mirror, to show all actions of the Polish government as some activity from the border of the law, some activity calculated on doing left-handed interests, on harming Polish citizens, on the introduction in Poland of some total power, power which controls everything and everyone. It's all against the facts. It all fits perfectly into the narration of Putin and Lukashenka. It's just outrageous. I really, as Vice-Marshal of the Senate, as the leader of the Law and Justice of the Senate, can't listen to this again. This is outrageous. Poles listen to it and Poles grab each other's head as you can use the High Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a very simple bill. She has one specific or several specific goals. On a 15-kilometer section of the border, where there is a hybrid war with Poland, a war between Belarus and Russia and Poland, a war that is a test of the strength of the Polish state and perhaps an introduction to the next act of Russia's massive aggression against this part of Europe... A script once announced by the holy memory of President Lech Kaczyński may be being realized. And it's obvious to everyone. It is obvious to the entire international community, it is obvious to the Polish government, but it is a great opportunity for you to throw stones at us, throwing political words at us, as in those guards at the border they actually throw stones, not refugees, but brought for heavy money by smugglers, by big business economic migrants. Well, you don't have any shame. It is simply an outrageous situation and an anti-state situation. It's time to put that dam in the Senate. It can't be such a disgusting way to polarize and divide us. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not arm our country with the right tools, we will put the integrity and security of the Polish state directly at risk. There is no more important constitutional value than defending the integrity of the Polish state. And from this perspective, the opinion of the Senate legislature, which is such a typical manifestation of a situation when a lawyer divides hair into four and seeks some sort of legal choice to destroy the basic purpose of the law, the purpose of the constitution, one of the basic objectives of the security of the state's borders... Well, my colleague Senator Marek Komorowski was right to ask: what would happen even worse within the functioning of the state than violating its borders so that we could bring an urgent bill? What else? If we cannot file an urgent bill in such a case, then the whole law is actually completely worthless and meaningless. Thus, it is a serious abuse, an abuse of law that works unconstitutionally in such a case. And that's what we need to be clear about. And finally. Once again, the Senate is not fulfilling its constitutional duty to cooperate with the authorities. It is not that there is a dispute between the Seym and the Senate in the Constitution. It is you who have led to the fact that these are completely separate worlds that cannot meet anywhere. [[Talking in the O.R.]] For political purposes, you did all this. It is also a profound abuse of the constitution. And Senator Wcisla's speech is just some political matrix. Everything turned upside down, all the values presented in some curved mirror. Yeah, really, ladies and gentlemen, you can't do politics. We've got to stop somewhere. I hope you will accept this bill with or without amendments. And one more thing: it is not that the Sejm will pass this bill. It was the Polish constitution that shaped Polish parliamentarianism that the last word belongs to the Sejm. And in this case, thank God that it is, because we have this fuse, that even if you ruin everything here, the majority that is behind the government in the Seym will correct the errors of the Senate majority. You have to tell the truth. We must defend the security of the state. The integrity of its borders must be defended. Polish officers and soldiers who risk their health and life there must be defended. And from this point on behalf, I think, of my colleagues from Law and Justice I would like to thank all the officers of the Border Guard, the army, the police and all the other services who at risk of their lives and health defend the borders of the Polish state. The wall behind the Polish uniform! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u273	Senator Michael Sewerinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My speech will be short and unusual. I will not talk about the substance of our dispute or other disputes, but about terminology, because today there were several statements that referred to what expressions are correct. It's a statement of non-constitutionality. So who can use such a claim that a legal act or a provision is incompatible with the constitution? I am sure that only the Constitutional Tribunal can rule on this in a binding manner. We already know that. But who else? Well, those who write the conclusions to the Constitutional Court that any provision or act is inconsistent with the Constitution must use that claim and they are allowed to do so. Who else? Members and senators. Members and senators may claim that a legislative act or a legal provision needs to be amended because it is incompatible with the Constitution. This is not binding, but this argument can be used. Who else? The doctrine of law. In the doctrine of law one can find such claims of authors who say that something is contrary to the constitution, and it has of course only doctrinal significance, does not affect the binding or non-binding of any legal act. What about the Legislative Bureau? Not all of you were in your previous term of office, but there was a dispute at the time that I was gonna be in that bleacher. And I've talked to some of our sympathetic colleagues at the Legislature Bureau before. The Legal Office can only say that this and this provision or this and this act can be considered contrary to the Constitution. And that's enough, because it's about this announcement, about us considering it. And if he finds that something is contrary to the constitution, it goes beyond his powers. They just need to be made aware of that. And there was such a doubt as to whether the sub-acts could be said. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a constitutional category, but it is based on the Constitution. The doctrine uses these terms. The provision of the Constitution, which sets out universally applicable laws, is hierarchically formulated and at some point the law appears. All that's below in this recipe is a subroutine act. He helps to understand certain legal arguments, and that's why doctrine uses them. We can use it, too. It doesn't have any negative consequences. I'm sorry for this instructive nuisance, but to be excused, I'm going to tell you what I'm doing when I'm in our discussion clashes... That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u275	Thank you, Senator. And now I give the floor to Senator Lydia Staron, who wants to correct the words misunderstood by Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u276	Thank you very much. Very short. Let me put it this way: first of all, you need to know the rules and understand what another senator is talking about. I was talking about legislation, about who is, so to speak, an economic immigrant. Because that's where the economic migrants are. That's what I'm talking about. And I was talking about legislation, the Geneva Convention, which doesn't apply to the actions of these people, aggressive migrants. That's what I was talking about and other things. But you have to understand that, and first of all, you have to know what you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u277	Thank you, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak as a senator who did not oppose the use of non-standard measures in an emergency situation. I didn't vote against the State Border Security Act. But what I want to say is that the use of emergency measures or the concern that our border should be tight cannot mean that the government is demanding inclusion and that the Senate is unconditionally supporting any government initiative. All the more so because I don't see any reason to disable the presence of journalists to the full extent in the border area, because it's an exclusion. not the presence of journalists, but the exclusion of public knowledge, as the media is a public defender in democratic conditions. Professor Seweryński focused on legal aspects. But the provisions of this law are designed so that it actually excludes or abolishes the very essence of the law. There's not even an accreditation system or a system comparable to an accreditation system. Because if there was such a regulation here that it was special, but based on objective criteria, media access to this zone... But no, there's just a blank regulation here that one of the executive authorities can let them in or out without any rules. This has been used as a reference to the state of war. In the war, war correspondents tell the public what's going on in the war. I see no reason why Polish journalists are to be deprived of access, and we are to receive information from the foreign press, which on the other side of the border has access to what is happening. The hammer was simply used here instead of a scalpel, how often it happens, and it cannot be accepted. This is the case with one of the Senate amendments, the other with regard to compensation guarantees and, finally, with the cooperation of the Senate authorities, it is in the role of the Senate. But I would also like to say on this occasion that there is no less serious problem, i.e. the language. Mr. Marshal Pop disciplined the majority of the Senate for language, but there is also the language of public television. There is a language of taking dignity from people who are used as an instrument in this action. There's the language of escalation of fear. And that's what should be condemned if you follow civilized patterns. You can seal the Polish border without leading barbaric propaganda and without scaring, especially the older generation, that Lukaszenka will be in Warsaw in a moment, because it is very, very irresponsible. We have the right to demand that. The wall behind the uniform, but the Polish uniform was never associated with lack of nobility and xenophobia. He was associated with honor and responsibility for others. [[Applause]] Let us use these words with some amount of reflection and responsibility. We've grown from a constitutional tradition. The Constitution of May 3 announced in one of its articles openness for all who seek refuge, openness in the building of the Republic. I am not saying that we are now to conduct an open-door policy, but we cannot conduct barbaric propaganda that takes away the dignity of poor people and makes us a country without nobility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u279	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Moustache isn't here. He mentioned to me that there was a difficult situation at the border, so unfortunately with his associates he had to leave us. This situation needs to be understood. For the first time after 1989, we are faced with the situation of such unprecedented action on our eastern border. I think that much has already been said here about the causes, about where it came from, how it is revealed, what the effects of the action we are observing on our eastern border may be. Social sentiments were also mentioned. In fact, this is one of the main topics of public debate in Poland. TV, Internet, press, radio... one of the main topics the media is about is the situation at the border. High Izbo, I think that contrary to what was said here by the opposition representatives, who have the majority in the Senate, contrary to what was in the layer, let's call it political, which I do not speak to, because everyone who says what he says is his own, so to speak, the bill, it's worth paying attention to the fact that there is no motion to reject the bill. Mr. Marshal, isn't that a conclusion? [[Affirmative, no sign of him.]] Exactly. Now I'd like to refer to... [[But you're still... you're not folding, are you, Senator?]] No, I absolutely didn't. [[You're still Senator Czerwinski...]] That's not a conclusion. I would like to quote the conclusion of the legal opinion of our Legislative Office. I quote: In summary, it must be stated that, in view of the scope and nature of the objections raised, no amendments to the bill in question are in a position to alter its negative legal assessment. Abstracting from the faulty way of adopting the opinion, it is necessary to stress that the violation of the constitutional freedom of movement in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the choice of the place of residence and residence cannot be applied during a period in which a specific emergency condition does not apply. In view of the urgency of drawing up this opinion, it covers the presentation of only the most important constitutional shortcomings, which prejudice the fact that the act in question should not become part of the Polish legal order. End of quote. I share Professor Sewerynski's view on bodies that can determine what it looks like in the Polish legal system, but I would like to draw attention to a certain element, let's call it, programmed, political. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if all the senators have received such an opinion, then why hasn't it been requested to reject this law by the opposition, which has the majority in the Senate? It would seem that after such a recommendation from the Legislative Office, very unambiguous, when the opinion suggests that there is no way to correct this law, such a conclusion, well, would theoretically be justified. And yet there is no such conclusion. Why? For a very simple reason. I think if we move away from political emotions, we'll move away from the current political struggle, we'll realize that this threat on the eastern border is unprecedented. We realize that the Polish state must make very difficult decisions, because these are not easy decisions, and we must realise that if it were not for the determination of Border Guard officers, soldiers of the Polish Army, all uniformed services that are involved, fire department, all logistics security, the situation would be much more dramatic, and perhaps there would be situations from which there would be no turning back, and in a political sense, and in an international sense. We must be aware of this and I think that everyone in this House, if we move away from the politics I am talking about, we are aware of it. We can argue about how to take action, we can say what action should be taken, but in principle, as regards the danger that comes to us, I don't think anyone has any doubts. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's why I think... I would suggest to the High House, however, that we rise above political divisions and different assessments and be able to make the right decisions. Of course, I, like Senator Ujazdowski, voted in favour of introducing a state of emergency in the border belt, and in this respect I have no doubt that I have made the right decision. I believe that also colleagues in the opposition realize that if there was not this legal form, the constitutional standard that was used periodically. If it's used, because it's still going on, 90 days, we'd be in a very dramatic situation. And from this point of view, I'm judging this bill. But as a journalist for over 40 years, I would also like to appeal to the government at this point. Namely, I believe that under certain conditions, with the maximum possible application, the security of the physical security of journalists who would work in this, let's call it a special zone, however, should be considered to enable journalists to carry out their activities. I believe that a large proportion of Polish journalists are responsible, aware of the dangers. I also know that large editors have special, prepared journalists who specialize in this subject, whether they are correspondents in some military or crisis areas, and simply have experience in this area, including movement, mode of action, not only the journalistic workshop itself. I don't think there's anything to crush a copy about journalists. And I'll even say that in accordance with the legal procedures currently in force, that's a possibility. If the journalist has made an appropriate request, he may obtain temporary permission to be in that zone. I do not know whether such proposals have been made or not, but it could already be organised in the current system, and I think that this tension, which is being created and which is also politically used both in our debates within the country and also in the international arena, would thus be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u281	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's start with the generals this time. It's about the constitutionality of the bill. You've spent a lot of time on this. It's clear here. You can presume certain things, you can write in opinions, but whether the law is constitutional or a legislative act is constitutional, is decided by the Constitutional Tribunal. You have that right, I am now speaking to the senators of the Civic Coalition Club or the Civic Platform... Art. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 says that the request by the Constitutional Tribunal to examine whether the act in question, in this case the amendment, the law, is in line with the Constitution or not, may be submitted by 30 senators. You have this number of senators in the club, over 30. I expect that after this law has been passed in one form or another, of course, when it comes into force, you will make such a request. Because if you don't, that would mean you're just beating the foam, you're taking senate time in a non-productive way. You're aware that the bill is constitutional or you have a suspicion... That's when you apply. And if you don't, why do you do it? To create in society a belief that something is being violated here, some constitutional provisions? Prove it. Anyone who claims something has to prove it, that's the case in court, and here the only evidence can be carried out by the Constitutional Tribunal. We will see how this ends, whether you have the courage to submit this proposal You have not applied for rejection of the bill because it would be unpolitical, and it can be seen in the polls, you can see in what even the media is saying: simply the public wants to protect our borders, wants to have a peaceful life. Our soldiers, our Border Guard officers, police officers, are fighting there at the border to keep us safe. The sense of security in the country is very high, but in the case of such a large conflict, which has not yet existed after the war, it does not create itself. Well, don't bother. As an attempt to interfere, these amendments, two of them, the first and the second, should be considered. The first concerns a different definition of the area where some of the restrictions described in the Act could be applied in the novel. The law refers to a border area. The border area is the area. minimum 15 km of entire territorial division units, basic, i.e. entire municipalities, 15 km from the border. That means it's an area wide enough to be independent of influence, I'd call it a border. And this area is proposed in the amendment. You want this area narrowed down to these municipalities. In fact, it's not even the municipalities, it's the localities, it's the reporting areas, which are indicated in the President's emergency regulation. This area of the President's regulation is on average about the width. Three kilometers. That means you want it to be five times the size of a protective area. That's what you're suggesting. I don't know if I'm conscious. In addition, there is also a claim that these sharpenings are non-constitutional because they are introduced by a regulation. But already a law, which also operates the concept of a border lane, gives such an opportunity, perhaps in Article. 9, which says that the minister can determine the limits in the border lane. This, of course, is a much narrower area, this territory is smaller. And imagine what's proposed in the bill, in the novel... The Minister for the Interior, after consulting the Chief Border Guard, shall determine this by means of a regulation. And these tightenings, which the Act already provides for, and which the relevant regulation details, tightenings in the border lane, may determine the voivodship Not a minister, but a voivode, a person at a much lower level, after consulting the commander of the relevant Border Guard unit. So these restrictions can be introduced at a much lower level, not even under regulation, because the voivode has no right to issue such a regulation. Here, in this amendment, we return to the system of laws, to the system of sources of law, and that does not suit you. Now the question is: why? Well, that's what we learn from the second amendment on special protection for journalists. A certain category of our citizens is to be excluded from the rigour of this law. The question is, why? Now there are three authorities, and this fourth will be indoctrinated... I mean the opposite: it will be indicated, it will be established in a legal manner. Oh, because this is the exercise of the right to information. Maybe so, in some cases we certainly can't say anything wrong about some media, but in some cases it's a defence of the right to disinformation. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you, as well as all those who listen to me, the situation from Michałów, at the beginning of October, probably on October 3rd. I don't know if you remember the children who were on the Border Guard unit. To attract these children to better pictures, these journalists or pseudo-dayers were throwing candy at them. Do you know how I felt back then? It's like a zoo. That's an insult to humanity, treating people like that. Didn't you feel sorry when Polish citizens, even though with the identity of a journalist, threw candy to children to take better pictures? That's a deliberate, faulty dehumanization. It may be against such journalists, I say it in quotes, because I do not treat them as representatives of this profession, who do not report, do not inform, but create reality... Let's just say in simple terms: maybe that's what this is really about? And you want to defend that attitude. This is creating reality against Poland, against Border Guard officers, against police officers and soldiers. And let's add to that insulting them on the air of the same media, so-called. Polish-speaking media. Well, if that's the intention of your amendment, and that's what it looks like, because this is the only group you're dealing with in this amendment, then it's clear to me. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation at the border with Belarus will probably continue to be conflicting for a long time, and there will be various other methods invented by Mr Lukashenka. We need to think about it. 'Cause he's certainly not independent in his actions. What's it for? Unfortunately, I am concerned that the idea is that at the very end of the European Union or the Union as a whole should even beg to reassure Mr Lukashenka. Who's gonna be able to do that? Of course, Mr. Putin. And maybe it's about becoming a so-called fact. The Suwalski Corridor, so that we can border Russia not only on the royal circuit, but also directly to the east. [[Timer signal]] Maybe that's the far-reaching sense of all these surgeries. I hope that neither Poland nor the international community will allow this. As far as the bill is concerned, of course, I call for no amendments to be made. They, as I say, are trying to break the teeth of this bill. Let us help those who defend us, who keep us calm, do not act against them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u283	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I withdrew my speech, which I gave to the minutes, because I said that I had to refer to certain things, to the speech of both Senator Jackowski and my previous speaker. I'm gonna skip everything I had in writing, and I'm gonna use my notes. Let me shorten this speech because many things have been said in the report. I was encouraged to do so by my previous speaker, saying that practically everything is regulated by existing laws. It's true. I spoke in the report, which is specifically governed by this law. This bill doesn't solve practically any problems. If the current legislation is examined, for example in the area of crisis management in question... The Voyeur can introduce restrictions. It's true. Solutions, regulations on uniformed services, current law on the protection of the state border Or the laws on epidemiological conditions... We can say that the contested law outside one issue, namely the selective choice of journalists who will have the grace of being in the border area, does not regulate anything else. I'll talk about the amendments in a minute. Why is such a solution suddenly introduced? After all, it could have been done much earlier or it could have been extended not until 2 December, but for example. until February 2nd or March 2nd. For 150 days it could be constitutionally introduced. We are introducing this as a matter of urgency, and the opinion of our office in which it is claimed that it is a law which should not be introduced in such a way that this introduction is unconstitutional, we say that our legislators are absolutely wrong. Why is this all of a sudden a solution like this? Why are we suddenly trying to get journalists in there? Because the government realized that it had lost a lot of imagery, giving Lukashenka the opportunity to show an image of refugees seen by his eyes and by the eyes of his specialized services. Then, in order to make it even more credible, Lukashenka allowed on the Belarusian side of the CNN border, the BBC and the eastern television stations. And the world saw that message. And where the cameras are, it's true. That's what a lot of people say. But despite this reflection, despite this truth, the government wants to introduce a selection of independent media, and it also categorizes this task as local Border Guard chiefs. So are we not going too far in such solutions? Now, let's skip the question. And there were some threads in the report earlier. Because they shouldn't matter on the assumption that the law is unconstitutional. However, it so happens that at this plenary session in a moment, perhaps at paragraph 17th, the law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code will be examined. And I will allow myself to read the government's justification for this project, which will be at 17th. We read in the explanatory memorandum, among others. Yes: the regulation is a normative act which can only serve to implement the law, not to replace it, supplement it or modify the solutions adopted in it. And then there's Art. 92. 1 In addition to the fact that the authorisation to issue a regulation is to specify the competent authority, the scope of the matters referred to in the regulation and the guidelines on the content of the act. The degree of precision required by the basic law therefore excludes the so-called. Blanket authorizations are also incomplete. The provisions authorising this type of defect, in particular those which violate the requirement of detail in terms of substance and substance, do not satisfy the constitutional model mentioned above. And then on: also, in accordance with the rule in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution, restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act and only if they are necessary in a democratic country for its security or public order. As I said, although we believe this is an unconstitutional solution, we are making 3 amendments. We had four, but we pulled out of one amendment. On the clear statement of the senate legislator that this is unconstitutional, but may also violate European Union law, we have withdrawn the fourth amendment. And these 3 introduced are not just about journalists. One of them concerns journalists, and the second amendment primarily concerns those entrepreneurs who work there in this zone. We also found that, despite this unconstitutionality, understanding the seriousness of the situation and the threats at the border, we would not make a motion to reject this law, we accepted amendments for this, believing that it would improve this law even a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u285	Thank you, Senator. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, in correction mode?]] And now... [[I'm in corrigendum mode.]] But I'm sorry... Was your name mentioned? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[There was talk of a previous speaker.]] No, Mr. Senator, your name hasn't been mentioned. You can't make a correction. [[Okay.]] I'm sorry, but those are the rules. Here, the senator was very careful. Senator Andrzej Spider, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We are debating the bill, but in this context we see this situation, which is in the east, and especially at the Polish-Belarusian border. I will not refer here to these more or less learned diwagations or academic discussions on the law, whether it is less unlawful or more, whether there is anything violated or not. I'm not a lawyer. What good is that gonna do tonight anyway? I'm gonna be more driven by the fact that the story is going on. Fortuna dicitur caeca, the story is rolling. Let me remind you very briefly of such words of Ignacy Krasicki from satire to the king, the illustrious words: "No nation has ever written a book in power: a wise man has betrayed, but a foolish man has beaten. This may be a wise discussion, but what if, High Senate, the New Year's Eve night that she was in Cologne, would be repeated in Warsaw? What will come of these wise, learned diwags about law, constitution, etc.? Another great man from the 18th century, Stanisław Konarski, wrote: "The law, even the most holy, is the right to cease if it becomes harmful to the homeland. What's the law gonna do? Are we gonna keep wiping our mouths off with this law when, like I said, this New Year's Eve night from Cologne is gonna happen again in some Polish city? Because the story goes on, the story repeats itself. Once again these words of Krasicki: "No nation has made a book in power: a wise man has overstepped, but a foolish man has beaten. In relation to what were these words by Ignacy Krasicki written, as not those events which were by the partitions and the partitions themselves, those events which prevented the military development of Poland? And by the time there were orders, it was too late. And finally, Let me remind you again that history can happen again. Adam Asnyk writes wonderfully: "The past does not return, as a living phenomenon, / In its former form never returns, / It changes only the place, time, name, / And new shapes take on for itself. And today is the question of the country, the question of Poland, to secure it. And the laws must of course be observed, and in the majesty of the law there are many things to be done, but in the event of a threat, he cites once again the law, even the most holy, the law ceases to be the law if it becomes harmful to the homeland. That is why I will fully support this bill. If the Sejm decides later that these amendments will be good, it will accept them, and if not, that is his case. But I fully support this bill, because I realize that it can happen again, that history can happen again, and on the other hand, may God protect us from this and may it never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u287	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u288	Mr. Marshal, literally half a minute, in one sentence correction mode. Senator Bladder either misunderstood or misunderstood my thoughts. Namely, I did not claim that the current legal situation is sufficient, because if so, this amendment would be unnecessary. I merely showed that they were already in the law, long, long time ago adopted similar modes of restriction, even less formalized and at a lower level. And it was about the voivodship, but it was just a 15-metre-wide border road. This should not be confused with the border zone, and this applies to the novel, because it is at least 15 km wide.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u289	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Jacek Bury, Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Marcin Bosacki, senators... [[Bogdan Klich and Marek Borowski.]] Well, here it is. Yes, sir. Senators Bogdan Klich and Marek Borowski and Senator Bogdan Klich. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: a law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 568 and the committee's report in print No 568 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the members of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the special rules adopted by the Sejm for the remuneration of persons performing cybersecurity tasks on 17 November. The Senate Marshal referred this bill to a committee which, at its meeting on 23 November, was proceding the bill. The Senate's law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks aims primarily at increasing the attractiveness of work in public institutions which are responsible for the cybersecurity of the state. The aim is to create a Cybersecurity Fund, which will finance allowances for the remuneration of persons working in positions related to the provision of comprehensive security in public sector ICT networks. Of course, these actions are undertaken primarily in order to achieve the objectives set out in the cybersecurity strategy of the Republic of Poland for the years 2019 to 2024. I just want to mention that in the article. 7 of this law is the amount of remuneration for this work, with allowances, and it must not exceed 21 times the basic amount for members of the Civil Service Corps as defined in the Budget Act, i.e. it may not exceed 42 thousand PLN. It also requires the Minister responsible for IT to report to the Sejm Committee on Special Services on the allocation of funds of the Fund for each quarter within 21 days of the end of the quarter. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has given a positive opinion on this law, without undermining its validity. However, by the mouth of one of the senators here present, Mr. Secretary, Senator Świlski, she raised reservations about the period of the procedure of this law as being too short. Therefore, following the adoption of the amendment agreed by the Legislative Office and positively approved by the Ministry, this law with this one amendment was adopted. Senator Świlski has requested amendments. I would like to point out that I, too, have allowed myself to make one amendment to this law. I'm addressing the High Senate. After, of course, a committee meeting and a positive opinion and adoption of these additional amendments For the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u291	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any requests for such questions. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Would Minister Janusz Cieszyński like to speak? No. But at present, senators may submit to the Minister a question of no more than a minute on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister, if you like, I can take part in the discussion.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Ryszard Świlski and Alexander Szwed have made their speeches to the minutes, and the senators: Ryszard Świlski and Jan Hamerski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: No, I just wanted to see the amendments, and if there isn't, then...]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Good. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the facilitation of trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household. The text of the act is contained in print No 554, and the report of the committee In print No 554 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the Act of 29 October 2021 adopted by the Sejm on the facilitation of trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household. It's a small change that basically introduces into the article. 16 an additional provision which provides that farmers and their household engaged in trade on Fridays and Saturdays within the meaning of Article. 2 (2) 4 of the Act of 29 October 2021 on the facilitation of trade on Fridays by farmers and households on Saturdays... And it determines who it is in this bill. At the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau did not comment. The discussion, of course, was in the direction of support. I The High Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution without amendments and therefore I request the adoption of a law without amendments. As for just one sentence... Mostly here, there was an appeal to local government officials to try to work together, if such people find themselves willing to provide them with free squares, for example. Parking lots so they can, for example. Friday and Saturday display your products, free of charge. It's an appeal, well, because there's no compulsion, it's just an initiative... If they find them. This is a very beneficial solution, and I think it is worth it for local government officials, as it is in the West, in countries where I have already watched and seen with my own eyes, as local government officials make available for cars where people sell meats, bread, some products, cheese, vegetables... And it's one day a week, let's say, in a designated place, public, even in a parking lot. Parking does not exist on that day, it is intended for those who make it available, especially processed products, as we say, from agricultural retail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u293	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? [[That's a good bill.]] There isn't? I have a question for the senator. Mr. Senator, it's about getting cities to get good fresh goods and farmers to get more money. Therefore, tell me: why are these trading days Friday and Saturday, not holidays a week, Saturday and Sunday? On Sundays, when shops are closed, etc., farmers could achieve much higher incomes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u294	I think the petitioners who proposed it... There was a discussion earlier, as I remember, whether Sundays also include. But now that there's a clear rule about the so-called. reducing trade on Sundays, that's... It doesn't directly concern the one he made. If he wants to, maybe he can sell on Sundays, too, and there's no ban here, because the ban is only for those who are employed, let's say. And everyone can do it individually. But I see that the Sejm has come out with such an initiative to give people a chance to rest on Sundays, not necessarily trade. Therefore, if farmers And we can see it on an example, no, especially indulgences or other celebrations that come with apples, cucumbers, all kinds of things and sell They want to sell it directly in some places, as I say, without hiring people, it's the law that allows it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u295	Thank you, Senator. So I can buy something on Sunday, too. [[Of course.]] Thank you very much... [[There's just an appeal to local governments to make the place available.]] Thank you. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you an MP? No, sir, there's no envoy. Well, as a rule, Members do not come to the examination of the laws they propose. Right now... Good. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I'm asking Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: Yes, sir.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u296	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill on facilitating trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their households is a very important solution in terms of facilitating this trade, facilitating access for citizens of the Republic of Poland to healthy food, while allowing farmers to implement direct sales. This is really one of the important steps to make the Polish Government available to many citizens of the Republic of Poland. This is a change to activate this direct trade and, above all, to shorten the food chain just between the producer and the final recipient. This is a very important issue in today's agricultural production, so that really healthy Polish food goes to all citizens of the Republic of Poland. For a long time, since just after the changes in the system, we actually have a big problem with the supply chain when it comes to distribution networks. And this law is indeed an important step in building this distribution network. This is the first such project to actually enable this direct sale. Farmers are very pleased about this. At the same time, as Mr Senator mentioned here, we call for local authorities to actually make available and indicate the places from which farmers will be able to benefit, while at the same time we declare our willingness and support for agriculture from the new programmes in the Polish Government, from processing programs which will actually consume many things related to distribution networks. For example, 4.5 billion, which will be used for processing, i.e. this Polish Load for the Polish village, is a huge co-financing just for processing, which will also result in better results with this final product, which will also be processed in terms of export results, which amounted to over EUR 34 billion in 2020. Indeed, we would like the Polish farmer and Polish entrepreneur not to sell only his manufactured goods, but at the same time to build a processing network. This law, which introduces a minor change, but at the same time meets the expectations of farmers and local authorities, is indeed making an important change. At the same time, we declare our willingness to support government investments as regards those which serve the development of the rural fund as regards those funds that were signed by the Prime Minister's programmes. So it's very important. RFIL and the whole situation of aid that can serve farmers and local authorities can lead to the development of these markets. So these are programs that will serve not only on paper, but above all in practice. We will want the local government not to be alone with this, just as we often met with questions in the parliament hall and in committee meetings. Indeed, we want other funds to also be involved in the development of these markets, so here the RFIL proposals, the conclusions of these programmes will also be respected in this respect, and I am very pleased and thank you to the Prime Minister for this fund. At the same time, it will be combined with other programs which will be financed under the Polish Order for the Polish village, thanks to the fact that this distribution network and construction of the shortening of this chain from the farmer to the final consumer will actually be possible. On the other hand, as in all discussions I stress, no one denies the role of intermediaries, because intermediaries are also very important in this chain, but at the same time we point out the possibility that this market is simply free, so that every inhabitant of a large and smaller city can either buy directly from a farmer or have the opportunity to buy in large distribution networks. This must be a free choice, and only then will we be able to make the market regulate itself. We need to shorten this chain so that the consumer also has a choice. This is an extremely important project, a small project, but it is a milestone when it comes to direct sales, shortening the chain. I thank you parliamentarians, the senators for this debate, for this substantive debate also at committee meetings, for the cultural debate and support of Polish agriculture. I hope that the project will be approved and functioning as soon as possible. The Ministry of Agriculture supports the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u297	Thank you, Minister. Please remain on the stand for a while longer, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Senator Czerwiński. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u298	I, Minister, would like you to answer the same question that the senator has clearly answered. Does the law on trade on Fridays and Saturdays also allow farmers to trade on Sundays?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u299	Thank you very much for that question, Senator. Of course, it's okay. This is a bill which, as a parliamentary project, has been approved by all parliamentarians, has been approved by the Parliamentary majority. This law does not exclude this trade, but it is an indication that local authorities will allow and make available places where farmers will be able to trade free of charge on Fridays and Saturdays. But also on Sunday you can trade, there is no such prohibition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u300	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three specifics related to the content of the bill. Of course, I support her idea and most content. Well, there's a definition of a householder. She's the same as the one KRUS has on its website, but there's another number of years. The householder must be 15 years old. The question is: why do we give such a limit? Or for legal reasons? Let the farmer decide that. If he's got a smart 12-year-old son, he'd do better to trade potatoes than a farmer himself. Question: Is this age limit necessary for other legal reasons? The second point, the wording of the farm. Art. 4 says agricultural products, food products, handicrafts are to be produced on the farm. The question is: in any farmer or this farmer? Because you can imagine that two would agree that the first would sell the second and the second would sell the second in two different places. Technically, it's practically possible. And the third line. In my opinion, there is a lack of transitional provision which would impose a deadline on the councils of the municipalities to carry out the tasks which they bear. There's no deadline here, please note that. By what date is this place to trade to be designated?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u302	If I may say so, Mr. Marshal... As far as the lack of a deadline is concerned, how the applicant felt about the bill and felt about it, I think it is mainly about not pouring out the baby with a bath. We cannot impose such a specific deadline on local governments. We would like the local authorities to benefit from programmes that are about to appear, so that they can benefit from funding so that they can build this type of place so that they can make it possible for farmers to do so. Such coercion, in my opinion, is not necessary at this point in time, because it can take place at such a level of consensus and cooperation that all parties are indeed satisfied. We are well aware that local governments often have such squares and markets. In some ways, the legislator imposes on local governments such an option that they will simply have to make places available to farmers free of charge. It is not that local governments will have to re-build specific squares, but of course we will support them when it comes to modernising markets. There's gonna be money for that. In my opinion, it is not necessary to make a provision at any specific point in time for this act. If it's preferred... If agricultural holdings could possibly exchange goods... The senator asked such a question here. I think that the role of self-government in the future will be to reflect on such records, which will not actually cause people who trade on a daily basis at such markets, because it is only a day and only a day for the farmer, the local producer we mentioned here. At the same time, we cannot lead to a situation in which this farmer, in quotes, will trade there. This is indeed a point that may in future be met by legislative provisions. Today we trust that they will be primarily farmers who will deliver their goods to the market, so that the inhabitants of the cities can buy it in a clear way. The senator asked about the age limit. I think that grown-up children are being taken care of when it comes to this trade... I, too, as a person who worked in the countryside and learned to work in the countryside as a farmer, learned the trade from my parents. I believe that during such trade, children should indeed be taken care of by adults and older people. Then they can learn to trade. In my opinion, 12-year-olds may not be left alone in the stalls for safety reasons. I'm sure they'll learn a lot, but in my opinion, they'll take responsibility for the farm by taking over the farm after their parents. But I'm sure they'll learn a lot about trade on Fridays and Saturdays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u303	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At first, I would like to say that I believe that this is a good bill, that it meets the expectations of the locals, i.e. those who used to buy in these different markets. I just have one question. The law slows down, say, farmers from the so-called. trade mark fee. Right? And it's like an extra sump to encourage... Am I getting this right? After all, the municipality will bear some costs of cleaning the squares, etc. So the farmer is sort of here, well, privileged as far as trade is concerned. How would you explain that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u305	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. As to whether a farmer is actually privileged, I would say yes, he is privileged. This can be seen with the lack of benefits for the local government in terms of this fair fee. But local governments have largely benefited from multi-billion-dollar grants for such investments in the last programme of the Government Local Investment Fund. They will benefit from further programs of the Polish Order for the Polish village, also for such investments. We believe that Friday and Saturday, the days on which it is an exemption from the market fee, will be able to start trading at local markets. It has often happened that residents of towns or villages went to local markets, because access to this market, payment, entry fee, availability of this market... Well, so purely marketingally it was hard, it was easier to go and buy carrots or other products of first need, bread, flour, milk just in the supermarket, buy everything there than to drive to the market square. We therefore want to encourage participation in this local trade and such local patriotism. This local patriotism is about to be such a stick and a carrot... So this is to show that it is really possible to encourage marketing in such a way, but at the same time in a natural way, i.e. We simply want such an incentive by exempting from this charge. But this is not equivalent to the fact that local governments will lose on this, because, as I say, the next editions of the programs that are to develop this type of market will appear next year. There is a large declaration by Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister of Agriculture, about the construction of a food holding company, a holding company that is in fact designed to regulate in some way all the ambiguities and inconveniences of the market. This will enable us to influence some of the situations that the market is putting in place. For example, the pandemic situation, the ASF situation, the soft fruit situation or today's border conflict In fact, all of this must be in the care of the Polish state. Food holding will contribute to this as much as possible. This bill is some sort of starting point, one of the important points, but I wouldn't underestimate it, I wouldn't think it would be enough. This is an element that is really going to encourage and build this economic patriotism, local patriotism. But local governments will not lose on this in any way, because they will be beneficiaries of many programs next year and the Polish Łódź programme for the Polish village.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u306	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: Thank you.]] That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Luczak, Mamotov, Durlak, Gorgon-Komor and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. The text of the Act is contained in print No 551, and the report of the Commission In print No 551 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Co-workers! I would like to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the law adopted by the Sejm on 29 October 2021 on the amendment of the Law The Legislative Commission dealt with this law at its meeting on 17 November. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of these changes, which are included in this Act... This is an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code adopted by the Sejm at its 40th meeting on 29 October. It seeks to regulate at the statutory level the additional exemptions from enforcement where the debtor is the farmer holding the agricultural holding. This exemption currently provides for a Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement. However, the very fact that the issue which, according to constitutional standards, constitutes legal matter is governed by a lower law is in favour of this amendment. Nor can it be concealed that the power to issue the implementing act set out in Article is itself delegated. 830 of the amended act, hereinafter referred to as the c.p.c., does not meet the criteria laid down by the Art. 92 Basic Law, as it does not include guidance on the content of the Regulation. In addition, some regulations relevant for proper execution and protection of agricultural holdings are based on Article. 23 Constitution, recognising the family holding as the basis of the country's agricultural system They go far beyond the scope of the cases referred to in the implementing act. Therefore, the law, adapting the legal status to the requirements laid down in the Constitution, moves to c.p.c. the provisions of the said Regulation of the Minister for Justice. In addition, it introduces some important modifications compared to current solutions, among others. extend by 7 days the period laid down for the opinion of the Agricultural Chamber on the appropriateness of excluding excess livestock from enforcement over the stock of basic or specified items in the quantity laid down in the legislation. It shall specify the nature of the opinion of the agricultural chamber which does not constitute information in accordance with Article. 761 c.p.c. He grants the bailiff the authority to appoint an expert in a situation of doubt on the content of the opinion delivered by the Chamber. It also introduces a specific conflict-of-law rule in these cases and omits the legal standard which is currently described in §5 of the Regulation, according to which provisions restricting the possibility of execution from the agricultural holding shall not apply if the execution has been addressed simultaneously to all property belonging to the agricultural holding. At the committee meeting, the law discussed very widely And thank you very much for that. Ms Katarzyna Frydrych, who is also present in the Chamber. It has put forward the above-mentioned law, together with its objectives. We also received the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which was presented by the deputy director of this office, Director Katarzyna Konieczko. It presented its opinion on the Law together with its comments and proposed an amendment on livestock. She raised objections as to the replacement of the use in the Returns Act and enforcement proceedings, proposing the introduction of another concept, the concept of bailiff activity. As a result of the discussion, the amendment was tabled with the attention of the Legislative Bureau. This amendment was accepted. This is, of course, in the committee's report. On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I propose that the law be adopted together with the amendment introduced therein. And at this point, I would like to thank all those involved in the legislative process in committee, and in a special way to Senator Bober, who has shown the greatest contribution and excellent knowledge of the subject-matter of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Senator Ryszard Bober has been authorized to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u309	Shortly, Mr. Marshal. This is indeed a very important law that really regulates certain matters relating to bail-out. This bill has been introduced. And for that, I would like to thank Senator Pociej, who was the initiator of this petition that led to the Marshal of the Senate. Indeed, all those bailiff cases that have taken place so far, which you remember, have been carried out in such a reprehensible manner. And indeed there was a recovery of the entire farm. This actually led to the tragedy of agricultural families, because there was often a recovery of entire farms too small a means. There was this case of a bailiff from Mława. I think you've all been in touch with her. Who was entering the farmyard... I'm sorry to bring this up, but those were the facts. This law standardizes all these proceedings. And I thank all the senators who have contributed to this project civilizing. I think the High Senate will support this bill, which you presented to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of the applicants related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Katarzyna Frydrych: Yes, please.]] You're welcome. I invite Mrs. Catherine Frydrych, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u311	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the marshal. It is a legislative initiative of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, a very important initiative. It transfers to the statutory ground those arrangements which have so far been covered by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement. There is no doubt that this law will contribute to strengthening the protection of the farmer who runs the agricultural holding and who is affected by the execution. In axiological terms, the arrangements for animals and objects belonging to a debtor who is a farmer holding an agricultural holding that is not subject to enforcement shall be structured according to those requirements which come from constitutional standards. That is, from the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. At the stage of the work, the government took a positive stance on the project. We reported some doubts and problems. There is no doubt that they later became a reason for discussion and resulted in some solutions already being introduced into the bill. Namely, these provisions enable the bailiff, in the case of the opinion of the agricultural chamber, also to establish evidence from the expert's own opinion. The regulation also entitles the bailiff to include, in the event of an application for an opinion, an appropriate copy of the seizure protocol in which the subject-matter is indicated, as well as information on the amount of the farmer's debt. It is worth noting that vacathio legis is suitable. The point is that it is 30 days old and such a time limit is sufficient because of the importance of the proposed changes. A transitional provision has also been clarified. The Senator rapporteur spoke about this provision. The amendment was tabled and the content of the amendment was clear. The provision has been clarified, now it is clear and can be used without the need for additional interpretation by enforcement authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u312	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Well, thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Gromko, Golba and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the act on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement in respect of care for children requiring constant care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 558 and the report of the Commission In print No 558 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a report to the committee and then to the minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I hope you can see me here from behind those beautiful white and red flowers. If the marshal would allow it, I would be in one report, because I am the rapporteur and most of the committee, and the minority proposal... I'd do it in one report. I'm gonna try to do this pretty fast because we're running out of time. [[Please.]] The Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy dealt with the Law on Compensation for persons entitled to early retirement for care of children requiring constant care at one but two-part meeting, i.e. on 18 and 23 November. On 18 November we had a substantive discussion, and on 23 November we accepted only amendments. What is this bill about? This bill applies to this... well, we've had a problem for years. EWK pensions. These include those who retired early under the 1989 Regulation and took care of children with disabilities and therefore were not entitled to the so-called. care services which are entitled to those who have resigned from their employment in order to take care of a disabled child, as such benefits are received when no other benefits are received. And this group. It must be said that well organized She has been asking for years to regulate her situation. The original project, which was a parliamentary project, was represented by Mr Jarosław Sachajko He assumed that only those who received such a benefit today would receive compensation up to the amount of the care provision, or PLN 1 thousand 900 with a cut. But during the work in the Sejm, this group was also extended to include people who were previously so-called. EWK pensions, and this has been converted into other benefits, which are also lower than care provision. The bill in this form would cost PLN 250 million. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention and praise to Mr Sachajka, because in this political situation, as it is, their votes are valuable to the majority of the government, so it is good that they are trying to translate their strength resulting from these voices into a solution to this problem rather than to other things that could cause controversy. This is an extremely glorious matter. The government at our meeting was represented by Minister Barbara Socha. The government supported this solution. At this point, I would like to thank your legal counsel very warmly because your counsel has prepared a very thorough and detailed opinion, which has, however, revealed a number of problems related to this law. It is this law, so to speak, that satisfies two categories of people. Well, those who took the so-called. EWK's pension will receive this compensation, and there is a second group, those who receive care benefits under the Family Benefits Act and who will apply after 1 January 2022 for retirement, pension, survivor's pension, teacher's compensation or parental supplementary benefit. In addition to the circle of persons covered by this regulation, there will be people who are in a very similar situation because they are caring for a disabled child and receive a different pension benefit than the so-called one. the EWK pension, which is also lower than the care provision. There will also be a problem with a second similar group, which will apply for a social pension after 1 January 2022, a fixed allowance, a pre-retirement allowance if the amount of these benefits is lower than the care provision. These groups won't get compensation either. Thus, we are dealing with different groups of people who, although taking care of a disabled child, because they receive different benefits, with different symbols, will receive or will not receive these benefits. To this there is another problem, resulting e.g. from the analysis of the Supreme Court signed by the President of Manowska, which states very clearly that very many people collecting the so-called. EWK's pensions were received in 1989 not entirely in accordance with the rules. I hear it's a big group. Therefore, there is an additional problem here. As a committee, we didn't really know how to deal with this issue. This would in principle require a single major bill to be drafted. We have therefore come to the conclusion that we will apply a partial solution. This partial solution is that we will try to apply our amendments to all those who receive pension benefits lower than care benefits, but we will not try to make it right for those who receive social benefits lower than care benefits, because we simply do not try to make it right for those who receive social benefits lower than care benefits. This is also the opinion of the Legislative Office It is impossible to correct this situation with these amendments. I would also like to say that there was a representative of the social side at our meeting, the patron Maria Czerwińska-Litwin, who represented the Foundation of the Brave Mother. Counsel pointed out that How did she put it? The Act introduced divisions in the environment, because the projectors differentiated parents, those who receive EWK's pension would have the right to receive compensatory benefits, and those who receive other pensions and take care of a disabled child would not have the right to receive such benefits. In the discussion, apart from the social side, you spoke to Senator Magdalena Kochan, pointing out that in this case there is another group, namely a group of carers for adults with disabilities. This is where the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment is bowed to. The senator also pointed out that we should not It is also necessary to regulate in another project to prohibit work in the collection of care services and that the catalogue of those who receive this benefit should definitely be extended. I, as I said at the outset, thanked the applicant's representative that they had dealt with this matter, and announced that amendments would be tabled extending this group to all persons who claim pension benefits. I am aware that the Supreme Court's opinion introduces a rumble here. Well, we're really expanding this group, but we're not covering it entirely with our amendments. Both Mr Sachajko and Minister Socha pointed out that they are aware of the shortcomings of this law, but believe that this is a step in the right direction. They assured us that in the years to come, they would try to correct the problem, so to speak. There was also a discussion about another aspect. There was a difference of opinion between the government side and the social side as to how big is a group of people who will not be covered by this provision. The social side believed that this was about 8 000 people, which would not be particularly difficult to bear for the budget, but the government side claimed that these people were definitely, definitely more. We didn't know how many of these people were really there. We have not received estimates in this matter, although this problem has already been addressed at the stage of the Parliamentary Committee. Already then it was suggested to try to determine how large this group is. I would like to say that we have finally adopted 9 amendments. By also acting as a minority, I would like to say that 3 minority proposals have emerged. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5 and 9 lead to a compensatory allowance covering all who receive pension benefits lower than care benefits. Amendments 4, 6 and 8 are legislative amendments, also accepted by the committee, with amendment 4 and amendment 6 being supported by the government, and amendment 8 was not supported by the government. We have also accepted the amendment tabled by Senator Magdalena Kochan. This is Amendment 7, which says that if care benefits are increased and pensions are not increased, there must be an increase in compensatory benefits. And as minority proposals, I present amendments 1, 2 and 3. These are amendments that are legislative in nature. So much for my report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u314	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much. I'll ask you... thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members, but the rapporteur is not with us. Then we'll let it go. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Paweł Wdewicz, Secretary of State. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: No, thank you.]] No? Good. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No, I don't have a question...]] Oh, for discussion. There are no volunteers. Then thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter of this bill seems very complicated. We hear here about many categories of persons, many categories of legal acts or various legal acts that have been issued and treated with effect from certain social groups in the form of compensatory benefits or do not bring this benefit. The truth is much simpler than we think. Someone who cares for a person with a disability, if they want to receive a care benefit that helps to care for a person with a disability, receives certain money from the State. It wouldn't be a problem here either, it seems obvious that such a family, such a person should be helped. But the legislator, all of us, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1990s, we have distinguished 2 categories of people: those whose disability arose in childhood, and those whose disability arose in adults. If a parent takes care of a disabled child, we tell this parent: if you give up your job or do not take this job, then we, the state, will help your family with the amount of care allowance, which today amounts to PLN 1 thousand 971. In addition, for 20 years, we have been paying social security benefits for this parent to acquire pension rights. This satisfied or did not satisfy the height, but in some basic way protected these families. We moved on. If a child's disability arises, the parent receives this benefit regardless of whether the disabled child becomes an adult, turns 18 or not. When does this benefit cease to be paid? When an adult already disabled child tries to stand on his own feet and go for at least one day to work. Then there is no benefit for the parent, there is no social pension for this adult child with disabilities. Empty. For adults, you have to give up your job to take care of that person at home. It is often a mother, it is often a father, it is often a husband, a wife, whose disability has already arisen during the period of adulthood. There's one condition... In this case there is a much lower benefit, it today amounts to PLN 620, and there is an additional condition: the common economy at home cannot exceed a certain amount per person, and at present it is not much more than PLN 700. In 2014, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the legislator has the right to differentiate the amount of benefits for such persons, but does not have the right to differentiate those benefits due to the time when disability arose. In the bill that Senator Filip Libicki was just talking about, to these two categories, which are already unconstitutional, because there is a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case, we add another inequality. Well, if early retirement, so-called. EWK... What was that all about? Parents who wanted to take care of their disabled children may have retired sooner than their age or employment. And they often retired in this way to take care of their disabled child, because then the benefit by which the state helped such families was much lower than their retirement. Today we say yes. If this pension was granted under the 1989 Regulation, such a parent will have paid the difference between a low pension and today's benefit of PLN 1 thousand 971. If he has retired not under the 1989 Regulation, then the benefit does not apply, i.e. we will not make the difference between the amount of his pension and the amount of the benefit. There are two of the same reasons why such houses require assistance, is disability and someone decides to take care of a person with disabilities, and different legal acts cause different treatment of persons. You know, you don't have to be a lawyer to say it's unconstitutional. My question is yes. After the debate that we had in committee, another on this issue, does the government intend to compensate for this constitutional inequality when it comes to people with disabilities? Do you think of a comprehensive way of solving this case, clearly discriminatory, some groups that, after all, solve or have the same problem to solve by themselves and the State? How long will we wait for the Constitutional Tribunal to comply with the law? It's expensive for the state budget, it's true. But isn't it expensive for the state budget, for all of us to exclude those willing to work for young people with disabilities just because they can't take the job because if they take the job, then Mom or Dad will lose the benefit he had paid? As a truly civilized society, can we afford to solve the same problem in four different ways, always discrimination against one of the groups? You know, it's like a very embarrassing problem that's still... I do not deny Mr Sachajka good intentions. Yes, the bill was designed for good intentions, but look at how this good will turns into what most often causes good intentions. In hell for others. It is really time for us to finally solve these issues over political divisions. We can't afford to waste kids who could do a great job, we can't afford to discriminate against parents who take care of them. We can't afford it because we just know that our constitution doesn't allow such waste and such discrimination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Gromek, Poor, Sweed, Bubbles, Gromko, Mamotov, Golba, Gorgon-Komor and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda, the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 557, and the report of the Commission In print No 557 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Ewa Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee on amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws adopted by the Polish Parliament at its 40th meeting on 24 October 2021. On 2 November 2021, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee, which was examined at its meeting on 18 November 2021. At the beginning of the committee's work, Minister Barbara Socha referred to what was involved in this law. The Act provides for a comprehensive complement to the rules on the settlement of benefits granted by the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund for the protection of jobs under State aid for pandemics. The Act provides for clarification of the rules on reimbursement by beneficiaries in whole or in part. It also provides for the possibility to carry out inspections at the office and not only at the premises or other places of activity by the recipient of the support to be supplemented by the powers to carry out checks. It gives voivodship labour offices the right to apply to public institutions which have provided support to information relevant to the fulfilment of the conditions for granting the support provided for in the COVID-19 Act. In addition, the Act also provides for an extension of the deadlines for examining applications and granting support by the end of March next year and introduces the possibility of financing from the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund to carry out the tasks resulting from the COVID-19 in the years 2022 to 2024. It also provides for favourable changes in the loans granted by BGK under the first business programme Backup at startup. Persons who have ceased their business due to the effects of the pandemic will be able to receive a loan for their activities if the object of the intended activity is different from that of the completed business. Positive changes are also foreseen for borrowers already benefiting from loans and changes in the functioning of the Tourism Aid Fund. It also provides for an amendment to the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions, which allows the announcement of an activation programme for foreigners. This is especially about people who have been evacuated from Afghanistan. During the committee's work, the Senate's Legislative Office stressed that the law does not raise any major legislative objections. However, a number of points have been highlighted. 11 legislative amendments were introduced which were accepted by the Ministry. In the vote of the amendment, as well as the act in its entirety, were adopted unanimously. No one spoke in the discussion. Your Senate, the committee is asking for the bill to be adopted, along with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Once again, I welcome Mr Paweł Wdewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u319	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I am presenting the main principles of the Law of 29 October 2021 amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws with a polite request for the adoption of a law in the form proposed by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The amendments presented in the committee report received a positive opinion from the government during the committee meeting. In fact, since the rapporteur has referred to all the issues covered by the law, I think I will stop by presenting this position with a request for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u320	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alicia Chybick is the first to sign up. [[Voice from the room: which is not there.]] Is it remote? [[Voice from the gym: I think she quit, as far as I know.]] Then Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz... [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] But he's not in the O.R. either. Well, then I'll inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Cousin...]] [[Mr. Marshal is so young, he doesn't know...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Świlski and Bladder made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. The text of the Act is contained in print No 571, and the report of the Commission In print No 571 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. The committees at the meeting that took place yesterday have examined this law and are requesting its adoption without amendment. Let me tell you more about the committee meeting. The aim of the Act is to create a legal regulation allowing the organization of the 3rd European Games in Krakow in 2023. The host will be Kraków city, Małopolskie voivodship and Śląskie voivodship. To this end, a special purpose company will be set up, which will act as an organisational committee for the Games, which will be responsible for all activities related to the preparation and conduct of the Games. The Act introduces legal arrangements to ensure the effective functioning of the organisers in the field of the smooth preparation, organisation and conduct of the games. This is not the first time that has been applied. It has already been used several times, e.g. during the organisation of the Euro 2012 event in Poland. The Senate Legislative Office had a lot of comments on the content of the Act itself. These comments, together with the amendments, were not made by the joint committees at the meeting because we wanted the Senate legislators together with the ministers of the law to try to agree on a position so that these amendments were not controversial and actually improved the law. I hope that's what happened. I have a list of these comments, I hereby report them. This law, although accepted without amendments, gave birth to certain dilemmas and controversies. This was linked to the senior games and the costs of carrying them out. Originally in the Act, in the current version there was a provision that from the state budget for this purpose 160 million PLN will be spent, but this will cover only licensing costs. The total cost will certainly be much higher. There may be an amendment in this case, because you will have to invest a lot in sports facilities, mainly in the city of Krakow. But that's just ahead of us. The effect was that in the vote of 12 senators from both committees voted in favour of the bill, 3 I will repeat the committee's proposal: the committees request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u322	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u323	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, just remind me what kind of support I'm going to say this bill came out of the Sejm for the Senate trial.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u324	I'm not gonna answer that precisely. Excuse me. [[But I understand it was the vast majority, right?]] I think so. It wasn't a controversial bill, although doubts, as I mentioned, aroused. I think there was also a significant number of votes in favour in the Sejm. [[Thank you very much. Of course I'm... well, you can still check it out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u325	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Andrzej Śliwka: Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Ladies and Gentlemen...]] I'm really sorry because I didn't introduce you. Minister Andrzej Śliwka, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. Hello.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u326	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Frankiewicz described in detail the course of the committee meeting, I would just like to add a few elements, i.e. to say that the bill... [[Voice from the room: Maybe you need to pick up the microphone because you can't hear very well.]] I'm so sorry. [[Under the desktop there is a button to raise the desktop, higher people use it.]] Thank you very much. I would like to mention some of the most important footnotes that have been included in this law. Indeed, the Act sets out the conditions for the implementation of projects in the field of design, construction, reconstruction, renovation of stadiums and other construction works, as was discussed in detail at the committee meeting. Provisions have also been identified that simplify certain administrative procedures. Nevertheless, the most important provision that was identified and added at the stage of parliamentary work, and which was consulted with all stakeholders, I am talking about the local government of Małopolska voivodship, I am also talking about the city of Krakow, but also about other partner cities, is a provision that says that the Minister responsible for physical culture, as well as the minister responsible for transport, can create dedicated programs that will finance investments or sports or infrastructure that will be included in the Council of Ministers regulation. This is an element that has been widely consulted with our partners, i.e. the organisers of the games, but also developed in the government. In this respect, as I said, he was consulted. As for the other regulations... Well, there are no comments on this bill. In response to the senator's question, I would just like to say that the Members who voted in favour of the bill were 267, 160 opposed, 10 abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you to proceed with this bill and vote in favour. Both the organisers and the government agree that this law is necessary so that we can properly prepare and coordinate the organisation of the games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u327	Thank you very much, Minister. Please remain on the stand for just a moment, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a little late, 'cause it's really been... I don't know when these games are going to be in the summer of 2023. Yes? That's why we're less than two years old. If there are any new investments planned... Are we gonna make it? Or maybe there are no new investments planned, and if there are, it's just cosmetic. Is it enough to repair these objects that already exist?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The idea behind the organisation of the European Games was also the assumptions of the organisers of the event, namely that these games will take place using the available infrastructure. We, of course, together with the organisers, will indicate in the regulation the necessary investments, which in principle will consist not in construction but in modernisation. Therefore, this 2-year period is a period that should be sufficient for us to have these games held at the appropriate facilities and in due course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u330	Thank you very much. The question is... No, no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. First, please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I rarely perform in local or regional matters, but this case has a national dimension, although the games are to take place in my home Krakow. This bill, in my opinion, is a law that is already late. After all, Minister Sasin himself said that she was to be proceded in Parliament in September. Now it is November, so in order to avoid further delays, we should quickly complete work on this law, preferably a good conclusion. What should this conclusion be to make it good? In my opinion, the law should be supplemented by 3 issues. Firstly, it should set certain financial limits which are important for all, i.e. and for the government that declared investment, and for the local government, which will participate in the organizational costs, and above all for athletes and fans who will participate in these events. And I'm not just talking about people from Krakow. So I would like to make the first amendment, which will concern these feuds with financial limits, so that we know what the government is committed to. Secondly, it seems to me that a condition of well-being... In fact, I am convinced that the condition for good management of measures is the transparency of decisions taken. As far as this transparency is concerned, it concerns every area, provided that the public pennies are involved. In this case it is coming in, so I am convinced that, since this law passes through Parliament, at least one chamber of our Parliament, the Sejm, should be informed about the state of preparation for the games in 2023 and also get a report on the progress of these games. It will concern not only what you see on the screen, but above all what is not on the screen, that is, what it looked like to spend public funds. So the second amendment will concern precisely such transparency in the form of reports which should be presented to Parliament, because it is Parliament that deals with this law. Finally, the third point, i.e. the issue of a road map. I believe that a sequence of actions is important in every area. It's about them being coordinated, so we know there's some logic here, not just good will. Logic is more important than will, and therefore we should also oblige the government to include a roadmap in the regulation so that there is a road map, so that everyone knows where and how it will be implemented. Therefore, the third amendment I am making hereunder aims to ensure that the Council of Ministers, by means of a regulation, will soon determine Soon, because by 31 December, the list of projects and the amount of funding, taking into account the need to ensure proper and timely preparation and conduct of the games. What is important is what has been said so far by government representatives. Minister Sasin has long declared that this is a nationwide event, and therefore the state budget will take a serious part in this event. I would like to remind you that in 2019 Poland was granted the right to organise these European Games, so we cannot be fooled. And this is a common challenge for the government and for the local government. Well, the government here has an essential part of the decision and essentially a lot to say. Therefore, if these amendments pass, then we can tell not only the Krakowans, but the whole country that the bill makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u332	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, everything that's relevant and important, you said Senator Klich. All I can do is join in. Indeed, these amendments are well founded and we will vote in favour of these amendments. And I also want to say something important. Because it is important for our city and for Poland, these games. Many cities in Europe have sought these games. And I remind you that this is not just a local case, Krakow, but it concerns the entire Małopolska voivodship and the Silesian voivodship. And it's gonna be a sport holiday. And I remind you that sport, as well as art, brings people together, not divides them. And I'm happy to welcome this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u334	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! You don't get the chance to speak to an actor very often. I'd like to speak a little in a different spirit. This is an extremely important project, important for the promotion of Poland, for the promotion of Małopolska and Silesia. At the committee meeting, of course, there were questions about where the previous games took place. But perhaps more importantly, it is organized after a pandemic, when many tourism sectors have been stopped. At the committee meeting, we asked what it looked like in 2020 and 2021, for example. use of hotels in Krakow. And that's why... This dimension, as always, for every promotion, is directly translated into the economy as well. We know that tourism is an extremely important part of our economy. Of course, here you must be aware that it is not only Krakow, but also Tarnów, also Silesia. During the meeting of the Joint Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, we connected with the President of the City of Krakow, the Capital Royal City of Krakow, Prof. Jacek Majchrowski, who also expressed his views on this law and on this undertaking. I have to say that I would also like to do this, which is not often the case in this House. I would like to thank you very much for what happened at the meetings of the Joint Committee. As the rapporteur, Senator Frankiewicz, the chairman of the local government committee, has just said, we have decided to adopt this law without amendments, we have agreed that the Legislative Office should cooperate with the officials of the Ministry in order to improve the drafting, refinement of these amendments, and this has happened. It doesn't happen that often. I am very grateful to the Legislative Office, and to the Minister, and to the Ministry's officials for this very attitude of work for the common good. I would also like to thank the President, Senator Frankiewicz, for taking this report. It wasn't so obvious, but the senator knows this matter well, so it all worked out well. It was said here that it was late, but I have to boast on behalf of myself and President Frankiewicz that this law was to be discussed at the Senate meeting in December and only because we were in a sudden session of the committee, we did it together, which the science committee does not practice so often, we have this three weeks faster, as also shown by what the senators had just said. It's extremely important. So thank you so much for all this. I think those good words are good for this initiative, which I wish everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u336	Thank you very much, Professor, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Swed made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Frankiewicz and Bober. [[Voice from the hall: I Klich.]] Yes, and Klich, and Senator Klich. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Let me remind you that point 18 has already been considered. We proceed to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 547 and the report is published in print No 547 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Alicia Zając, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present a draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 as the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. At its meeting on 18 November, the Commission examined the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading. She didn't bring him in... It has introduced amendments proposed by the legislator and proposes that the Senate adopt the single attached draft. The resolution is short, so maybe I'll give you the content. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of today on the establishment of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. In March 2022, the 200th anniversary of the birth was celebrated, and in January, the 140th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the creator of the world oil industry. He belongs to an honorable group of Poles whose activity has marked a great and positive impact on the development of our Homeland, as well as the whole world. Ignacy Łukasiewicz was born in Zaduszniki near Mielce, a poor noble family with patriotic traditions. After my father died. A participant in the Kościuszkowski Uprising, due to the financial situation, had to leave the middle school in Rzeszów and take up a job as a pharmacist. He developed his knowledge and skills during his pharmaceutical studies at the Jagiellonian University and in Vienna. He worked in Lviv, working at Piotr Mikolasch's pharmacy, where he and John Zehe separated kerosene from it in the process of distillation of crude oil. He also worked in Gorlice, Jasle and Krosnie. In Krośnieński County, in Bóbrka, working with Titus Trzejeski and Karol Klobassa-Zrencki, he created the world's first oil mine in 1854. In turn in Ulaszowice, in Kęczany, in Polanka and later in Chorokówka he started oil refineries. As a creator of the oil industry, Ignacy Łukasiewicz overcame the Americans and Romanians. He was also an inventor of the oil lamp. In 1853, the first night operation was performed in the hospital in Łyczak, Lviv, under the light of his constructed lamp. He died in Chorkowka and was buried in Zrotin near Krosno. Ignacy Łukasiewicz, together with his sister Emilia Stacherska, engaged in independence activities; for his conspiracy during the Cracow Uprising he was imprisoned by Austrians. He financially supported the January Uprising and later provided shelter and work for its participants. He was also a Member of the National Sejm and Councillor of Krosno County Council, headed the Society for the Care and Development of Industry and Mining in Galicia. He did a lot of social functions. As a great philanthropist, he founded schools, hospitals, churches, roads and bridges. He founded the Advanced Society in Krosno. He organised welfare funds, which were the first such institutions in Europe to secure workers in the event of sickness or invalidity. He was the first one to set up Bóbka's money in the mine, a modern social security system for workers. He also took care of the development of education and culture and the education of oil workers. For his charity, Pope Pius IX gave him the title of the papal chamberlain and awarded him the Order of Saint Gregory the Great. As the creator and organizer of the oil industry Ignacy Łukasiewicz led to the development of Podkarpacie, and gradually a significant part of the Polish lands under partitions, creating a lot of jobs and raising the living standards of the inhabitants. His many successors The oil industry has flourished in this branch of the Polish economy. Today, many chemical, cosmetic and modern industries are based on the process of distillation of crude oil initiated by Łukasiewicz. Today, too, he is the patron of the oil and gas and refining industry in Poland, and his legacy should be strongly and continuously developed and promoted in Europe and the world. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, especially due to the great and extraordinary merits of Ignacy Łukasiewicz for the industry and economy of Poland, as well as his commitment to fighting for independence of the Homeland and taking care of employees, establishes the year 2022 as the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask the High House, whose figure Ignacy Łukasiewicz is certainly well known, to be involved in the celebrations of his year and, above all, to support the draft resolution. In order not to prolong, while respecting the tenacious present in the senators' hall, I will submit my speech to the minutes. I'll just quote his last sentence. After Ignacy Łukasiewicz's death, his friend Teofil Merunowicz wrote: "Hundreds, perhaps thousands of those who received personal benefits from him, will keep him for the rest of their lives in a grateful memory. He deserved, however, that the whole nation should include his name in the ranks of his best sons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u338	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Alicia the Hare to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No questions. I'm opening... [[And Senator Fedorovich?]] [[I'm asking the question.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u339	First of all, I would like to thank the senator for this, because this is a fantastic thing that we worship such great people and great Poles in this way. I have an extra question because I can help you with something if you need me. Will there be exhibitions, conferences, events in connection with Ignacy Łukasiewicz's Year? If so, then very well, I understand that there will be, and if something is missing, then count on me, because we in Krakow really very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u340	Thank you very much. In the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, this character will be particularly honored because we have dozens of schools bearing a name there. There are also many such institutions, starting with the Rzeszow University of Technology, which first came out with an initiative to celebrate Ignacy Łukasiewicz, establishing the year 2022 of his year. The Technical University has asked the Marshal of the Sejm on this matter, the Sejm has adopted such a resolution at one of the previous meetings, and tomorrow the Senate will vote on this resolution. This year's celebration, as every year on the patron's feast, will involve schools, will involve young people, will involve the oil industry museum in Bóbrka near Krosno, will also involve the University of Technology. A celebration committee has been set up, so please use all the information that will be kept up to date in the media. Because of this unusual, difficult time, we did not provide detailed information so that we would not cancel anything later. I cordially invite you to the Podkarpath. The time when the oil industry in Podkarpacie was being liquidated was particularly painful for us, because several generations of families were working in the oil industry. I think Małopolska will join in this celebration. Although mines have already been closed in its territory, as they had no resources, but there are new drillings, there are new gas deposits. I think that this industry, as I'm sure Ignacy Łukasiewicz would like, will continue to develop in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u341	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Gromek, Sweden, Łuczak and Alice Zając have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 with the Year of Brunon Schulz. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No.545, and the report "Print No. 545 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, like my predecessor, am also dealing with a double anniversary. I would like to report and read the resolution establishing the year 2022 by Brunon Schulz. Next year will be the 100th anniversary of Bruno Schulz's birth and the 80th anniversary of his tragic death. Bruno Schulz was born in Drohobycz, a small Galician town near Lviv. That's where he spent his whole life and was shot in the street by a gestapo. Its Accomplishment Both literary and plastic is saturated with Drohobytic realities. He considered his city to be the center of the world, he was his diligent observer and excellent chronicler. He is undoubtedly one of the most original creators of Polish culture in the 20th century, and his works entered the canon of world literature and are known even in the most culturally distant parts of the world. The achievements of the author of Cinnamon Shops are known not only in Poland, Ukraine or Israel, but also in many other countries, because his stories have been translated into more than 45 languages. In recent years they have been translated into Chinese, Turkish, Estonian, Albanian, Greek and Vietnamese, which clearly shows the extent of the writer's works, which are an inspiration for the next generations of people of culture. Schulz's work has a significant impact on theatre artists and visual arts. Every year, the theatrical adaptations of his stories are displayed, his exhibition is organized, films are created. Several Polish organizations are constantly carrying out international scientific or artistic projects devoted to the author of the Sanatorium under the hourglass. During his studies in Lviv and Vienna, Bruno Schulz was successful in his artistic work, although he was a self-teacher, and he did not complete his polytechnic studies. His art works were the first to highly appreciate Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz, including the Author as a group of demonologists. Schulz illustrated, among other things, his stories as well as the first edition of Witold Gombrowicz's novel, Ferdidurke, of which he was one of the earliest admirers. After him there were several hundred drawings of a variety of purpose and character; the largest collection of more than 300 objects. It owns the Warsaw Museum of Literature. Adam Mickiewicz. In 2022 there were 130. anniversary of the birthday and 80th anniversary of Bruno Schulz's tragic death, a man of extraordinary imagination, intelligence and creativity, writing with admiration about Józef Piłsudski, friendly with the most outstanding Polish writers, an artist with Jewish roots, who together with Julian Tuwim and Antoni Słonimski It has been permanently inscribed on the pages of Polish literature and certainly deserves the title of ambassador of Polish culture in the world. I would also like to inform you that every two years the Brunon Schulz festival is held in Drohobycz, and next year it will take place for the tenth time. The senators are also invited, the official invitation will come in February, and the festival will take place there between 5 and 12 June. And on July 20th, during the first day of the Senate meeting in July, we want to present an exhibition dedicated to his work in the Senate. And like Senator Zając said, not all the activities were written in the celebration program, because, first of all, this program is still being created, and secondly, we don't want to write any more if later something couldn't be realized just because of the pandemic. But I hope there's gonna be a lot of celebrations. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u343	Thank you, Senator Rapporteur. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Halina Poor to represent them. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u344	Thank you very much. Of course, it is very beautiful that this year will be Brunon Schulz. The questions will be two, one short question. Schulz was born, lived and taught in Drohobycz. Drohobycz was a city that was a model of tolerance for the whole of Europe. In this high school, where Schulz attended, and earlier, for example, Wierzyński, Horzyc, etc., Jews, Ukrainians, Rusini and Poles met in one corridor. And since this city really was a model of behavior and tolerance, I would like to ask whether the Ukrainian party will participate in these celebrations. Is there such a direction? This is the first case. And the second thing is: couldn't you include in the celebrations which will be in July, a special screening of the great movie, the Sanatorium under the hourglass?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u345	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u346	I'm already answering two questions. The Ukrainian side is absolutely involved in these celebrations, we are already after such preliminary talks, because the city of Drohobycz is a partner city of Bytomia and everything with the mermaid of Drohobycz is already agreed. I would also like to invite you to the opening of this exhibition, which will be with us in the Senate. I think it's Senator Fedorovich's way, too, to make that happen. As for the second question, it is also such an idea to show films related to Schulz's work or based on Schulz's work, because contrary to the appearances of these films there is a lot. Maybe not a lot, but I'm sure there's a dozen of those movies. These are both documentary and cartoon films... In Drohobycz, at the permanent exhibition devoted to Brunon Schulz, there is this animation created on the basis of his drawings, his works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u347	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u348	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are writers so important, so groundbreaking, that they are unambiguously assigned to one culture. or even to one language area would be an act of ownership and usurpation. This is the case we are talking about, considering the importance of Brunon Schulz's artistic and spiritual heritage. Time has shown that we are dealing with a creator not so much multicultural, but over cultural, deeply embedded in tradition, but at the same time constantly exceeding it. Therefore, probably such a drastic and unfair simplification is today a fairly common attempt to place the author of cinnamon shops only within Polish or Jewish culture. It doesn't justify it. Even the fact that he is sometimes mentioned as an expert, a great admirer and an outstanding translator of German literature. To this day, the canonical text is even its translation of the "Process" by Franz Kafka. The universality of Schulz's work makes it imprinted by subsequent translations on the areas of subsequent national literature and cultures, cultures seemingly distant from each other. In fact, contemporary studies stress that, thanks to the outstanding artistic qualities and this universality, this can provide an excellent level of intercultural and interpersonal dialogue. Moreover, the timelessness, supranationality and transhistoricity of this literature inspires generations of writers and philosophers and scientists. Schulz's work today exists in global collective awareness through translations into more than 40 languages of the world. New translations and subsequent creative interpretations only broaden the scale of its impact on contemporary literature and humanistic thought. Especially within this latter author, the Sanatorium under the hourglass appears today also as a philosopher and an inspiration for metaphysical reflection. By promoting Schulz as the patron of 2022, it is also worth remembering the powerful creative power of his artistic and intellectual heritage. A man who from a family-run provincial town could make an important point on the cultural map of the world, and who a small Drohobycz, lying at the crossroads of languages and traditions, entered into an international context, may turn out to be one of our most important ambassadors. It is the personification of this Poland, whose strength is the synergy resulting from cultural diversity, from ecumenical dialogue and the penetration of the achievements of ethnically diverse communities. Through art in general, and literature in particular today we have a huge chance to cleanse the international image of our country from the xenophobic and racist raid it has covered in recent years. Schulz proved that Polish language has great opportunities when it is used to deepen universal reflection, not to formulate the slogans of nationalist propaganda. Poland from Schulz's vision is a multicultural, multi-colored, open, spirited dialogue. It is also a common and personal space, uniting people and creatively combining contradictions. This is Poland, which we urgently need today. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u349	Thank you, Senator. Now let me give you... Yes? Who else? [[Voice from the room: No one.]] Good. I'm gonna give myself a voice now. Bruno Schulz was a drawing teacher at the school in Drohobycz. That's what I learned from his student at the beginning of the 1990s. And he was a favorite teacher, a great teacher. The old man only mentioned him after years. I also want to say That's probably what everyone knows. That Jacek Kleyff wrote a great song about Bruno Schulz's death. And I think it's going to be included at the festival because it's really so real and beautiful. That's the end of it. I mean, the list of speakers has been exhausted, so we're finishing the discussion. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Let me remind you that point twenty-first has already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. The text of the Act is contained in print No 567 and the report of the Commission In print No 567 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is the second law, which I have the honour of presenting to you in a short period of time, in more detail, a report on the work of the committee. Like the previous one, this one is undergoing a rapid legislative process, both in the Seym and in the Senate. The Act deals with the amendment of the Act on local taxes and charges and its main objective is to close the tax gap, which has existed in real estate tax for several years, which is a municipal tax. The fact that the pace of work is so fast is caused by the fact that this law can enter into force from 1 January of the next year. If this does not happen, for the next year some local governments will lose significant money. Respect is about PLN 200 million a year. This law was passed in the Sejm on 17 November, we received it on 18 November, today the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration examined it and asked the High Senate to adopt it without amendments. That doesn't mean the senators didn't have any comments on this bill. I mean, if the Senate had tabled amendments to her, that deadline I was talking about couldn't have been respected. That is why there is a motion to vote on this law without amendments. I'll remind you because I think it's very important. That more than a year ago the High Chamber, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, adopted a law which had the same purpose, i.e. the elimination of the tax gap. And in the Seym, this bill was not considered until November 16th of this year. Even after a year. This government submission was also delayed so that, in its original form, the date of entry into force was proposed on 1 January 2023. This is negligence, but it is important enough that it is worth not to mention at this point the shortcomings of this government submission, which were raised, concerning the extension of the scope of reliefs and the re-risk of creating a tax gap, because it is now pointless in view of what I said about the date of entry into force of the law. So I propose, as at the outset, that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u351	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators will report no longer than a minute of question to the Senator. I would remind you that Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz was also authorized to represent the Senate in the course of his work on the Senate bill. Do any of you senators want to ask questions? [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] Thank you. No questions. Thank you, Senator. The drafts of this law were submitted by the Senate and the government. The Minister of Infrastructure has been authorised to present his position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Andrzej Bittel like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: A few sentences, if you may.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u352	First of all, thank you for this fast paced work. That's about the bill. Secondly, if the marshal would allow it, I would like on behalf of myself, but I hope that also your marshal and the whole House, to give wishes to Polish railwaymen on their railway holiday, which is celebrated today, on the feast of St. Catherine of Alexandria. Let it be done to them, let them work safely, and let the service bring them satisfaction. As soon as I get back to the law, I would like to say that it is indeed intended to close the tax gap relating to the application of the law by administrative courts. I hope that it will be adopted by the High House without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u353	Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? Are they? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u354	I know, Mr. Marshal, it's late. But I have a question for the Minister about the impact of this law and the classification of the railroad land in connection with the possible playback of railway lines that have been excluded from use, were followed by embankments with remains of the track, etc. Is there any connection to this bill? And whether it can cause the wording of this law to be used in such a way as to remove such lines as soon as possible and not to refuse the requests of local communities, where these lines had previously been liquidated, and at the moment it is wanted to renew these lines.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u355	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u356	Thank you very much. To answer the question, I would like to say this: in my view, this law in this form and in the point concerning inactive infrastructure will clearly contribute to the fact that there will be less desire to parallise the inactive property, i.e. to bring it into liquidation, to issue liquidation decisions. And this will certainly counter a policy that could happen, namely the loss of communication corridors. At a certain stage of our work we also examined the tax exemption for liquidated lines. Restoring that parole... It was and at that time involved roughly the fact that the lines were liquidated without real estate tax for 3 years since the liquidation decision. Well, but for a few years now, there have been no such winding-up decisions, and we've decided that restoring such a waiver might be far-reaching, too far-reaching in this respect, which doesn't change the form of things, that you have to take all possible steps to make the corridors on closed lines or closed lines... so that the inactive lines don't turn into closed lines, so that these corridors don't lose, because then it's actually gonna be a lot harder to recreate rail connections that have been shut down at a long distance. Now we're missing them. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u357	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u358	Wouldn't the way to keep the corridors, not necessarily with railroad playback, be here, for example, I don't know, a greater share of local authorities supported by the state, of course? You could just create bike paths there. These are ideal places for paths, including viaduct infrastructure, etc. This path doesn't bring down the hallway. He's still a used area, let's call it a transport. This is a different transport, but then you can use this area differently. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: If I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u359	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u360	It's a possibility that's created. It was introduced on the occasion of the amendment of the Rail Transport Act, which we call Rail+, either in labour or in short. There was the possibility of a long-term lease of such spaces in order to organize some other infrastructure there, e.g. the cycle path, but without transferring the area to property. The idea is that, in a situation where there would be a necessity or a desire to restore a railway line, be the owner of the land. Of course, this would be done by respecting all these things related to EU projects, the sustainability of the project. This is already a matter of agreement between the parties. That's a possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u361	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, senators Janusz Błucherz and Alexander Szwed have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. Thank you for reminding me of the railroad celebration. Therefore, I wish all railwaymen and former railwaymen well. [[And the trammen.]] [[It's a celebration of railroads and trams, that's the truth.]] We use your services and thank you for continuing in this beautiful profession. And now for the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u362	The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks will take place tomorrow, 26 November, Friday at 8.00 in room 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the Law on the Protection of the State Border will take place tomorrow at 8.15 in room 182. The education committee and the local government committee will meet to consider the proposals for the bill to support the preparation of the 3rd European Games tomorrow at 8.45 in room 182. The Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Economy and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs will examine the proposals made during the debate on the electromobility law. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 176. The Health Commission and the Legislative Commission will meet tomorrow on a resolution on the state of health protection Senator's print no. 561 in room No. 217 at 8.15 a.m. [[Voice: So all committee meetings are at 8:15?]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-25-senat-33-2.u363	Senator, there was an announcement. Listen to me. [[Voice from the room: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] For my part, thank you to all the persistent... [[Voice from the hall: All women, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] [[Senator's voice: And Mr. Senator.]] Thank you to all the persistent women and men, the senators. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Tomorrow we have one point left to ratify the Treaty on Eurocorp. Then there'll be a vote. Good night. [[Voice from the room: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 25]]
