ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u1	I open the thirty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] To the secretaries of the sitting... We've got a reverb somewhere. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. On the first day of the meeting... I'm hearing some reverberation here. See if you can... Doesn't that sound good? No. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] On the first day, Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska... But here's Senator Gorgon-Komor, who I'm happy to welcome. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. On the second day of the session, the duties of the Senators will be performed by the other secretaries, so to speak. Your Senate, today, scouts have come to us to give us Bethlehem's Light of Peace, according to tradition, during a humble celebration dictated by pandemics. Hello, Boy Scouts. And please take the floor of the chairman of the Polish Scouting Association, Mr. Scout Dariusz Supł.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, senators! For the thirty-first time we come to large institutions, and to you, in particular, with Bethlehem's Light of Peace, with those who lighted in the Cave of the Lord's Birth in Bethlehem then travel to Austria and from Austria spread throughout the world. For 31 years we have been receiving them from Slovak Scouts at the border and moving them to us. This year's slogan is the light of hope. In connection with the pandemic, with the different situations in the world, this hope is today what shows us the way, says that it will be better that we overcome all the adversities that we are able to do. It is also such a message of hope that we can do it together, all together, helping each other. This light will not only reach you, it will reach any place where it is needed: a place to stay, people who are lonely. It's also about not being left alone in this time of Christmas and pandemic. We also bring them to you and we are very pleased that you will accept them from us. It will shine until Christmas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u3	I'm gonna ask here so the photographers can prove themselves. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. On behalf of all the senators, I thank you for maintaining this wonderful tradition. We accept it with honor and treat it as an honor that it will guide us during Christmas Eve. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the Polish Scouts Association Dariusz Supeł: Bombs with ZHP logo were hung on the Senate tree...]] Yeah, hung up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the epidemic situation after consulting the Seniors Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula, such as it is used, unfortunately, for a long time, i.e. we will be sitting in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely. The rules for the participation of senators remotely in Senate meetings are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Countries participating in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. Please subscribe to any questions or to the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches in discussions and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal in charge of the session and after the microphone has been launched by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Dear Senators, we will now proceed to the vote, which is intended to establish only the list of senators currently attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press the button 2 times after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 December 2021 Janusz Bargieł, senator of the fifth term, member of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on European Affairs, died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Senate, I inform you that on 26 May 2021 a document was sent to the Senate on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council in 2020. This document is contained in print No 410. On 27 May 2021, the report was addressed to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took note of this document at its meeting on 15 July. I would also like to inform you that on 18 October 2021 a document was sent to the Senate on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the presidency of the government. This document is contained in print No 539. On 27 October 2021, the information was addressed to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took note of this document at its meeting on 10 December. On 27 October 2021, a document was sent to the Senate on the situation of the elderly in Poland for 2020. This document is contained in print No 542. On 28 October 2021, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took note of this document at its meeting on 10 December 2021. I would like to inform that the Sejm, at its forty-third meeting on 30 November and 2 December 2021, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Energy Law and to the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure, also adopted part of the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and certain other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and to certain other laws. In addition, at the same meeting, the Sejm rejected: all the amendments of the Senate to the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws, all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on Compensation for persons entitled to an early pension for the care of children requiring permanent care, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act amending the Law on Excise Tax and the Act amending the Law on Excise Tax and certain other laws, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the thirty-first meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. On the draft agenda sent to the senators, there was a point: the Law on the amendment of the Law on education and certain other laws. This item will not be included on the agenda approved by the Senate in connection with the failure of the Sejm to approve the Law. In addition, in connection with the failure of the committees to prepare their reports to the fifth point, i.e. the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the State Protection Service in the years 2022 to 2025, on the establishment of the "Programme of the Modernization of the Prison Service in the years 2022 and on the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws; point seven, that is, the Act on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Control Office; point thirteen, that is, the Law on the amendment of the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Protection, these items have been deleted from the agenda but the agenda will be supplemented by these items after the preparation of the reports by the committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the second, third, sixth, eighth, 10th, 14th and 20th to twenty-second draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these issues have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I propose that the Senators change the order of consideration of the second point, namely the Law on special arrangements for implementing the Budget Law for 2022, and consider it as the fourth point. This is a request from the Ministry of Finance. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Law on the Coverage Appendix and consider it as point 15 of the Act amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans and certain other laws and consider it as paragraph 19; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I inform you that Senator Marcin Bosacki on 1 December 2021 in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure have requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the control of inflation by the government and rising prices. The Senate Marshal has not fully taken into account the proposal submitted, as the inflation problem will be addressed in the context of the review of the Law on excise duties and certain other laws on the current agenda. Does the applicant still maintain his application? Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Dear Senators, I inform you that today at 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break will be announced during which the exhibition will be opened. I would also like to inform you that, in the absence of proposals of a legislative nature to vote on the first point, concerning the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the mine, we will proceed immediately after considering this point. The remaining votes will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. I inform you that a half-hour break will be announced at 3:30 p.m. during which in the senate gardens from the side of the park The exit will be through the hall downstairs. A commemorative ceremony will be held to commemorate Poles and Poles, victims of the pandemic of Coronavirus. This tragic balance has exceeded 89,000 deaths. To commemorate these thousands of our compatriots in pride and focus, we will light candles. In this way we will pay tribute to those who have lost the fight against this dangerous and sneaky disease. We will also think with the families of those who have lost their lives, for which an empty place at the Christmas table will be especially entertaining. I cordially invite you ladies and gentlemen of the senators to attend this ceremony. The second day of the meeting will begin at 9.00 a.m. with the review of the 19th item, namely the Act amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans and certain other laws. On that day at 12.00 a 40-minute break in the session will be announced, during which the exhibition will be opened. What is really important in life? The meeting will be adjourned until the afternoon on Thursday at the end of the meeting. Because many senators are going to the mine to celebrate the 40th anniversary of its pacification. High Izbo, I inform you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy during the examination of the Act on one-off provision of money for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, item 17 of the agenda, saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in Senate printing No 595. I ask all senators to be present for this item on the agenda, as we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the mine. I would like to welcome you to the meeting of the present guests: Mr Tomasz Rogala, President of the Management Board of the Polish Mining Group SA... [[Applause]] ... Mr. Damian Borgiel, director of the Coal Stone mine, Staszic-Uncle... [[Applause]] ...and Dr. Rafał Muchatski, Senator of the 7th and 8th term of office. [[Applause]] I remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 548. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. Before I ask an authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Halina Poora, to present a draft resolution, I must inform you that I have been obliged to make suggestions to the Senior Convention. The aim is to complete the procession of this point, if possible, before 12.00 so that we can participate in the opening of the exhibition. That is the suggestion of the Senior Convention. I ask Senator Halina Poor to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! It was an honor for me to present a draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the mine. As your marshal said, this project was brought into session without first reading. I would like to thank the 13 Senators of the Silesian Voivodeship very warmly, who, as a team, initiated such a resolution. I would also like to thank the representatives, the heads of all the clubs who agreed to sign the project so that it could be proceded without first reading. Let me read the text of the project. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the mine. On the night of 12 to 13 December 1981, martial law was introduced throughout Poland. After the events of December 1970, it seemed that the authorities of the Polish People's Republic would never decide to use violence against their citizens, and no Pole would die from bullets. The reality turned out to be different. In the Katowice mine, the work was interrupted by miners in the first moments of martial law, after they learned about the arrest of the head of the factory Witnesses of detention were miners working the night shift, who reported that other mining workers had taken place. At that time a decision was made on the occupation strike, and the proclamation demanded the abolition of martial law, the release of Ludwicz and all interned activists and the observance of agreements concluded with workers in August and September 1980. Power, without accepting any concessions, decided to use force on the miners. On December 16, 1981, ZOMO troops and troops invaded the mine. Six people were killed as a result of the fire to the miners, and three more died later in hospitals. In 2009, twenty-eight years after the pacification of the mine and twenty years since the fall of communism, the Supreme Court confirmed the judgments of the courts of the lower courts which sentenced 12 ZOMO officers to prison. For the crime in the mine, the Uncle never responded to those who introduced martial law, headed by Wojciech Jaruzelski and Czesław Kiszczak. So many encyclopedic facts. But this greatest tragedy of martial law is, above all, the immensity of the human fortitude of the spirit, the will to fight and the faith in victory. The events between August 1980 and December 1981, known by historians as "Carnival of Solidarity," gave many Poles the hope of changing the situation in the country. The hope of blood and death, unfortunately. For Józef Czekalski, Józef Krzysztof Giza, Joachim Gnida, Ryszard Gzik, Bogusław Kopczak, Andrzej Pelka, Jan Stawisinski, Zbigniew Wilk and Zenon Zająca was the last piece of work in life. Twenty-three miners were shot, dozens poisoned with tear gas. Tragedy in the mine of the Uncle became a symbol of resistance of parts of Poles against the martial law, and nine killed miners entered the pantheon of national heroes fighting for sovereign Poland. On the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the mine, the events of those days are still alive. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the murdered and expresses his gratitude and thanks to all those fighting for freedom, dignity and sovereignty. Despite pain and suffering, it was a victory for the future of our Homeland. We remember and remember. Such a tragedy should never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Victims of martial law should be a special memento, a clear and symbolic warning signal, in order to respond immediately to all forms of abuse of power and protest with all power when this power strikes the defenceless. An example of the events that took place in the mine 4 decades ago is a historic warning, a warning against the arrogance of the weaker ruling class, which fears freedom and solidarity of citizens. The heroic miners of the Uncle are victims of dehumanization of power and total loss of empathy in the name of maintaining the control of government. The resolution commemorating one of the greatest crimes of martial law should therefore be a resolution calling for all those who look at people today through statistics, surveys and are ready for their own purposes to ignore any civilizational standards that allow for peaceful coexistence. [[Why do you say that? Why do you say such things?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u7	Does Marshal Pop support your willingness to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The tragedy of the miners from the mine Uncle reminds us once again that martial law was not fun. The state of war was a great evil, a great evil done to the Polish people, it was part of the war declared by the authorities of the Poles. This event also reminds us once again that we can never relativize the martial law, never for political purposes can we relativize the victims and their sufferings to the highest sacrifice, from life. Today, too often in certain environments, some newspapers are trying to describe martial law as a historic necessity, as an inevitable political and historical process, as a lesser evil, as events that were supposed to protect the Polish people, and in fact was an opposite good. Also this man, who bears the greatest direct, personal responsibility for this evil, tries to whiten himself, to represent himself as a statesman as an architect of a later breakthrough. And it has been in a very painful way lately that we realized once again in the film presenting Adam Michnik and this very man. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u9	Thank you very much. I would just like to remind you that if this is the will of the ladies and senators, we can do a separate session on the analysis of martial law, but I also remind you that today we honor the memory of the murdered miners of the mine. [[Applause]] I would very much ask you to concentrate on this issue. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the spirit of what Mr. Marshals just said, I would like to stress very clearly that the victim of these exceptional people Senator Poor was talking about the immenseness of the spirit. It should not be relativised and should be at the heart of our thoughts and feelings. Communist dictatorship in Poland was absolutely unique, extremely bad and should not be an object in today's political rivalry so... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Polish public life. But no one is understanding. cannot compare our disputes with what we experienced before 1989. And no one honest should attack those with whom you can share a fundamental difference of opinion As is the case, I suppose, in relation to Adam Michnik, but he was certainly a hero of Polish freedom, one of the main heroes of Polish freedom, alongside others. This is not a place to expose contemporary political differences, especially since, honestly, what was really done for decommunization was done in Poland at the end of the 1990s. The IPN was then created, and the basic law was carried out, and for the first time, the victims of martial law were fully commemorated. Then it was done, not later. That should also dictate modesty. None of the political forces in Poland can say of themselves that they are clearly and alone fulfilling the will and legacy of the Solidarity. We should all be modest in this regard, especially in the face of a sacrifice that no one is making today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u12	Today we pay tribute to the heroes of our independence and as a senator of the Republic of Poland, but also as a historian, I would like to ask all present senators not to treat this victim in the context of current political conflicts. Senator Ujazdowski is 200 percent right. Unfortunately, we now tend to compare events of the communist dictatorship with contemporary events in order to look for an analogy with modern times. And there is absolutely no historical truth preserved here, but it is, in my opinion, a ruthless manipulation of social emotions and based on the fact that much of the public opinion in Poland does not know it, that some people do not know what communism was really about, what the PRL was all about, and now they are trying to whiten up those times. I'd like to protest against it from this bleacher. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the mechanism of this crime. Well, Colonel Jerzy Gruba was the Provincial Commandant of the Civic Militia in Katowice. This is exactly the same officer of the Civic Militia who later covered up Grzegorz Przemyk's case as Deputy Chief of the Civic Militia. He was the one who got sick. Cieślak, commander of a special platoon consisting of 20 officers, who equipped with machine guns Cancer shot at protesting miners. As we know, it took 28 years to bring justice. And whether the sentence is proportionate to the extent of the blame, as far as those who have committed this massacre are concerned, I leave the assessment of each one of us. Yeah, 28 years old. And the partial processes, because one of these people was in Germany, were delayed, so that not all of them were judged in one group. Besides, the sentences were... Maximum, I guess, is 6.5 years. So this also shows the proportionality of the penalty to the crime that has been committed. High Izbo, I was a student at the University of Warsaw at the time. The university was closed. Students have already met under semi-conspiracy conditions, and I am talking about those who sympathized with the opposition. And I remember what a shock it was to the public in Poland about this information, which was received by slipper mail and later in the regimeal propaganda media was presented in a very specific way and was intended to serve communist propaganda to pacify social sentiments and show immense control of the situation by communist dictatorship. And to that end, this tragedy was also used. Let me remind you that the first prosecutorial proceedings in this case, which took place in the early 1980s, were terminated. High Izbo, I think that when we pay tribute to these heroes of our independence, we should act in this situation so as not to use this sacrifice for any other purpose, beyond what is needed for our national community. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u13	Thank you very much, senator. Before I ask for the voice of Senator Bogdan Klich, let me welcome the guests who have crossed the Pass Office: Mr Stanisław Plak, one of the leaders of the strike in the Coal Mine... [[Applause]] ...and Mr Robert Ciupa, director of the Silesian Centre for Freedom and Solidarity. [[Applause]] Now, I'd like the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This resolution is for us to remember how it was with martial law. This resolution is so that we remember the highest victim of the blood sacrifice that those who were deliberately murdered by the communist regime in the mine of Wujek. This resolution is also to remind others of the days, months, and years. You have to remember every one of those who were murdered. It is important to remember that it was not a masquerade that it was a deliberate hit in the "Solidarity" to pacify other strikers at that time. It must be remembered that this break after 13 December was a continuation of the natural process of rebirth of the Polish society towards freedom, as this resolution says, towards human dignity, as this resolution says, but also towards democracy, which this resolution does not mention. After all, it was the dignity of man, freedom, democracy that we wanted, all the participants and all those who witnessed, not those who participated in that process. 10 million members of the Solidarity under the shoes of the communist regime That was something. And those 10 million members of the Solidarity were to be taught a lesson through the murder that took place in the mine of the Uncle, they were to be pacified together with those who started strikes after 13 December. We remember. We remember that and we know that any authority that loses or does not have a mandate will resort to an argument of strength to defeat an insubordinate society. This was the case in 1981. After all, martial law was planned long before December 13th. After all, in Poland there was no threat of external intervention by the Red Army at that time, unlike December 1980, when, thanks to coordinated efforts by President Carter's administration, Zbigniew Brzeziński managed to stop external and internal intervention. The state of war was declared to survive this power. This power wanted to survive. And at this price, at the cost of the death not only of the miners from the mine, but also about 100 other victims who were later murdered by the communist regime, this power wanted at all costs at that time to achieve its goals, i.e. to maintain power. Only then, when the wind of history flew in another direction, that power decided to negotiate because it was weak. Hence the will of that authority to sit at the Round Table and give peacefully the power that it held. This does not erase from our memory and the victims from the mine of Uncle, and the heroic break of Solidarity and other organizations, and hundreds of interned, and thousands of arrested Poles, all those whom we should pay tribute to, as we are doing in this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. For the record, Senators Janusz Gromek, Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko and Marcin Bosacki made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the mine. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the pacification of the Mine. I ask you to approach the Presidential Table of Mr Stanisław Plak, the leader of the strike in the mine in 1981, and Mr Robert Ciupa, director of the Silesian Centre for Freedom and Solidarity, because I would like to present you with a resolution of the Senate. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] For me it is a great honor and honor to present to you, especially you, but also to you the Senate resolution commemorating the heroic heroic death and the wounds of dozens of miners of mine. Please accept this as an expression of our humble tribute to the victims, to all mine workers who opposed the oppressive regime and suffered the greatest sacrifice, blood and life, in the fight for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Sir, I'd like you to come in here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I told the marshal in his ear: better later than never. Thank you for this resolution, because contrary to appearances there are still many things, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, which were not settled in Poland after December 1981. Bleeding wounds. I use that phrase. I just wanted to say it at the show, but I'm gonna say it now. I came here not only to open an exhibition to attend this plenary session and to collect this unusual act for me, but also because I would like to convey a brief message. A will from the mine of the Uncle. Two crosses of Poznań, three crosses of Gdansk, one tree from Katowice is our torment And the Lord. And in conclusion, I'm gonna rip another wound, even though it was recently ripped apart by someone else on the TV show. I hear there's been a debate on this. And I'm gonna hand over my will because these wounds are still bleeding. It took 40 years for him to be born in the Polish Parliament a document that should somehow satisfy our environment The environment of the miners from the mine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u17	Thank you very much. We're closing this point right now. I'm ordering a recess until 12:30. Welcome to the opening ceremony at 12.00 a.m. exhibition dedicated to the mine. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 51 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u18	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 591, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 591 A and 591 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the committee, I would like to present a report on the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. Print number, 591. The second law, from print 592, has exactly the same title, which is why I explain to the people who follow this report that we are now talking about printing 591. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has presented an amendment to the excise duty law and certain other laws. These changes, which have been proposed, boils down in the first place to the fact that electricity sold to the final customer in the household is exempt from excise duty between 1 January and 31 May 2022. Here is the interpretation that if a given location is 100% it is intended for business activity even referred to as a large residential establishment, then it is not subject to reduction. So we're talking about reducing the excise duty on electricity in the household. Subsequently, from 20 December to 31 December and from 1 January to 31 May 2022, excise duties on motor gasoline, gas oils, essential fuel biocomponents and gases intended for the propulsion of internal combustion engines shall be reduced. And let me briefly tell you how this is shaped in pennies when it comes to a reduction. That is, from 20 December to 31 December, the change in excise duty in the case of motor gasoline will result in a reduction of 14 gr, for diesel it will be 8 gr and for biocomponents 5 gr. There will be a lower excise duty reduction in the period from 1 January to 31 May. In the case of petrol, this will result in a reduction of 11 gr and in the case of diesel 5 gr. And these are the changes to the excise duty reduction on the fuels and components I mentioned. The second point that is included here, which is contained in the project, i.e. in the Act, it is a question of aid to companies in areas subject to special conditions concerning border protection. This is compensation for companies that operate, so to speak, in this area. At the same time, there is also a question of aid to companies which will show that, as a result of the introduction of these restrictions in the protected area, these companies have lost their income. Voyeur after consulting... That's exactly what it says. I'll read it to you in a minute. Art. 4: Voivode on a documented request, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for administration, in particularly justified cases... And there's the possibility of getting that kind of help. It was a point that gave rise to some controversy in the discussion with the Minister, and the point was that in the article. 4 We introduce practically complete discretion when it comes to helping other companies, apart from these companies listed in this catalogue, especially companies in the tourism, hotel, restaurant industry. Other companies from this area or surrounding areas, which show a drop in income as a result of the introduction of this state, may apply for such assistance, but this will be the decision of the voivode concerned. And last but not least, the question of introducing an extended deadline for cash payments. We asked the Minister if the bill was one of the few... As we will be sitting today, Ladies and Gentlemen, we will notice that practically every law introduces elements concerning the Polish Order, e.g. in the case of the banking law we will discuss elements concerning the Polish Government related to prison etc. Well, there's also a record here about the Polish Order. Do you remember there was a lot of discussion... Our proposal was also in the same direction as the Minister proposes here. This is the issue of reducing the total value of transactions to 20 000. We talked about the fact that the Charity has such limitations to bring it to 2023... There was no agreement of the Minister and Members, especially the Law and Justice, to vote on the deletion of this. Today, the Minister introduces a provision that this payment of up to 20,000 will apply from January 2023. I just want to remind you that, at the request of the President, we first increased this obligation on the ability to pay the person who pays in cash, then the seller of the service or the goods is obliged to accept it. Later in the Polish Lada we lowered them, and now we suspend them until 2023. In the end, it's better late than never. And the question of help... This assistance shall be provided in the form of a loan. After notification to the European Union, this loan will be converted into non-refundable aid. The Minister's words came out. The Minister will confirm this in his speech. It is a good chance that what is related to aid to businesses operating in the zone with reduced revenues or profits will first be granted in the form of loans and will then be converted into non-refundable aid. Following the discussion, the Commission unanimously gave a positive opinion on the law without amending it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Maria Koc, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt a law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws without amendments. High Senate, Mr Marshal, my previous speaker has detailed the legal solutions proposed in this law. I will merely say that this law on the amendment of the excise duty law and certain other laws is part of the so-called law. Anti-inflationary shield. Its content is the temporary abolition or reduction of energy and fuel taxes, with the aim of halting inflation growth. The Act amends several other laws, such as the Act on excise duty, on retail tax, on the system of development institutions, on compensation for the introduction of a state of emergency in the part of the Podlaskie voivodship, also in the laws on personal income tax and corporate income tax. The solutions proposed here concern a reduction in excise duty on electricity sales from 1 January 2022 to 31 May 2022 to the minimum excise duty permitted by EU law. It is also proposed to reduce the EU minimum excise duty on diesel, self-fuel biocomponents, motor gasoline, liquefied gas from 20 December 2021 to 31 May 2022. It is also proposed to abolish the retail levy on the sale of motor fuels from 1 January 2022 to 31 May 2022. After a brief discussion, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, as I said, decided to ask the High House to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. Welcome to the meeting of Mr Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the High House for giving us the opportunity to deal with this law so quickly. She is being processed in such an extraordinary mode, but she is clearly beneficial to the citizens, and she also responds to a social need, which has been reported for many weeks. The announcements concerning this bill were at the end of November, and today, i.e. In mid-December, we are with this bill in the Senate. So thank you so much for giving us this opportunity. You'll hear four more things from me here. The Senators of the rapporteur discussed this law very closely, so I will not repeat it, I would just like to draw attention to 3 or 4 cases. First of all, the anti-inflationary shield, which was announced at the end of November, will be implemented in 3 groups of normative acts. This project is one of them; it includes reductions in excise duty and the abolition of taxation of fuels with retail tax. However, the anti-inflationary shield contains 2 more elements. One is the reduction in VAT for gas, electricity and heat. In the case of VAT, this will be done by means of regulations of the Minister of Finance. These regulations are already published on the pages of the Government Legislative Process, their agreement has ended and we would like them to enter into force in parallel with today's Law. A third such group are protective allowances, which the High Senate will also discuss at this meeting. Mr. Granddaddy will probably talk more about this. But this is also implemented with a parallel normative act, so I think it will come into force with these other acts. The second point that I would like to point out is that, in fact, these actions today are an expression of the government's policy that we have been pursuing for a long time. Last week, Mr Tadeusz Kościński, together with a group of other finance ministers, adopted a revision of the VAT Directive, which will in the future reduce VAT on many of the products involved in social calls to reduce VAT on them. That's, among other things. food, but also books or rail trips. It is worth noting this strongly, because thanks to this VAT directive, thanks to efforts, which are worth highlighting, Minister Sarnowski and Minister Kościński, in the future we will have the opportunity to create more freedom in the creation of lower VAT rates. But I would like to point out that, in parallel, in addition to this large VAT directive, which concerns systemic activities, the government is submitting Here, thanks are due to Minister Kościński and Minister Sarnowski • ad hoc requests for reduced VAT rates for products such as food at this difficult time. We take these actions. We've been communicating with them. I'm sure we'll try at this stage. One last thing I'd like to draw your attention to. The proposed solutions are temporal in nature. Of course, at the end of the winter period, we will be closely observing the further inflationary process as a government. If necessary, we will, of course, react decisively, as in the case of this law. This is obviously an action for the winter period, but that does not mean that this is the last action by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Please remain on the stand, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yesterday we were debating this bill. Of course, we're aware of her weight and needs, but working in such a hurry, probably a lot of things... I'm talking about the government rather than our committee. Some things may have slipped your mind. This is an attempt to reduce the impact of high price increases on different persons, economic operators, etc. My question. I asked that question at the committee meeting. Now there is one more thing I would like to draw attention to. This is the problem of liquid gas prices, which is used for heating purposes by many households, wherever there is no possibility of using wired, network gas. In some municipalities liquid gas was introduced into the network. Yes? Do you also take into account the customers of this gas? I'm asking because the price of this gas has increased very, very much in recent times. Today it is one of the highest cost of heating apartments. We remember that the government encourages us to move away from smoking with coal, etc., from non-organic energy sources. People in many places have converted energy installations into liquid gas, where natural gas is not available. [[Timer signal]] Is it also proposed here to reduce excise duty or VAT, or do you see any other solutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u26	Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u27	Thank you. As far as natural gas is concerned, as the President rightly pointed out, we anticipate a reduction in VAT. However, there is a group of products where the burden on tributes, whether VAT or excise duty, is minimal. This applies e.g. liquid gas. Therefore, under the current EU legislation, we do not have this possibility and we are taking two kinds of action. The first thing is a cover supplement, which I have already mentioned, for those households, which for various reasons we cannot reduce the danin on energy carriers. Through the cover supplement, we will make the increase in commodity prices when it comes to heating the apartment milder. It's really the foundation of a protective proposal. The second thing I have already mentioned is the revision of the VAT Directive, which will give Member States greater freedom. There is one thing I would like to draw attention to here. For some goods it may be difficult to obtain consent from the European Commission due to the so-called European Union. Green Deal. For some goods there is a chance to obtain the consent of the European Commission, and for others, those who do not fit into the EU Green Deal, this opportunity will be really small. However, we will try to do so. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll just ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u28	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u29	I'd like to ask for a simple answer. In the case of liquid gas, it is unacceptable to reduce VAT. This is due to EU rules and here we are blocked. I understand that in the case of other energy raw materials, VAT could be reduced, and here you don't think...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u30	Not in the case of liquid gases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u31	Cannot be reduced, i.e. 23% VAT here is mandatory and there is no possibility to change That's what you say here. Nor can excise duties be reduced in the case of liquid gas. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Yes.]] You can't do that. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: In the case of liquid gas no.]] That is the clear answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u33	Minister, I have a question. Whether or not VAT can be reduced, we know from the European Commission's response. You have not included in this proposal a reduction in the VAT price for fuel oil. Each year, households use 66 thousand tons of oil for heating purposes. Question: Will you make such a request, and I'm sorry. Maybe you've already made your appearances. Maybe I'm wrong about that. We have a large network of households that use this type of heat source.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u34	Thank you. In the case of fuel oil, there is indeed a slightly different situation, because here could be a space to reduce excise duty, but fuel oil is in the same group of goods as diesel fuels. Therefore, here too, we must look at this in terms of the possible fragmentation of the fuel package that we have been implementing with such difficulty over the past years. The taxation of fuel oil is one of the lowest in the European Union. Here we have to pay attention to this one thing so that it doesn't seal out the fuel package, too. In the case of fuel oil, this is the situation. This is also the subject of discussions with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. We exempt from excise duty in the case of diesel. Will this not affect the fact that farmers are already partially exempt from excise duty, they have the so-called. agricultural fuel in accordance with the excise tax law? Because the justification was that there was a small difference in return and compensation for the use of agricultural fuel on the farm. Isn't there some kind of disorder here, or is there going to be consequences?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u37	I don't see such a disorder, Senator. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u39	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal and Minister... As I say, I don't like to ask questions if I could ask all these questions at the committee meeting, but unfortunately they... We've been going through this pretty fast, and some things have slipped our mind. I'm going back to what Senator Kwiatkowski has picked up. You were talking about the issue of heating fuel oil, that here you are afraid of sealing this system related to the use, in the simplest sense, of heating oil in cars, in vehicles. And you don't want to lower your excise duty because you're afraid that this might lead to the fact that this cheaper fuel oil by a dozen pennies can be used for other purposes than heating. But here at the same time you replied to Senator Chróścikowski that farmers have a reduced tax, etc., etc. And that it doesn't lead to sealing, and here in the case of this group that would use this... [[Timer signal]] ...expensive privilege, you see the problem. I think it's such a big inconsistency. I think that would require a logical explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u40	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u41	I'll say it again. The situation is that the oils you asked Senator Kwiatkowski about are treated as one generic group when it comes to diesel fuels. That's why there's a risk of fragmentation here, and that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u42	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. First, please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I would like to convince you of the amendment that we tabled with President Kleina after agreement with Mr Kleina. We have in Poland a large number of households that use fuel oil... diesel fuel for fuel purposes. And, ladies and gentlemen, in many places these furnaces were not a choice caused by anything other than a certain forced circumstance. Well, we have houses in Poland that are not located in a place where it is. gas network, we also have people in Poland who for various reasons need to use the heating system, which is a fully automated and maintenance-free system, and this is the case for oil intended for heating purposes. And, despite all this, it is difficult to agree with the argument that a fine fuel package. I also say this as former President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Because it was the NIK, when I led her work, that recommended in the conclusions of her audit the introduction of a fuel package and the sealing of this system in the context of effective collection of public debts. This system already has a control system. Both on companies that deliver, and on individual customers I'd say Some rigors are imposed to make it possible to check effectively whether this oil actually goes to those who use it for fuel purposes. It's not a theoretical problem, because within a year. I have before me statistics of the Polish Central Statistical Office 66 thousand t is sold in Poland for the purpose of heating households according to the classification of the Central Statistical Office. I'll also remind you that a well-set furnace that works properly causes no poisonous exhaust gas. So maybe it's not the perfect source, but in the context of coal furnaces it's a greener source. This is why we are fully convinced to propose such an amendment, thinking that we cannot treat those citizens who are heating their homes, their homes with fuel oil, on worse terms than others, by not including this reduction here. This amendment shall be tabled. I hope, and I am absolutely convinced, that the public services will be able to cope if this amendment is adopted with an effective surveillance system, of course in the context of the detection of possible irregularities in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words, or I will actually resist many quotes from speeches, studies, articles of Polish economists. Because inflation is not something we can get used to when it comes to the functioning of each of us, every Polish family, every citizen. I will quote one of the Polish economists who said that inflation is like a cancer that digs the pockets of Poles and Poles, that inflation got out of control. That shows, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of danger. And worst of all, if we got used to the fact that 7 or 8% Don't give God 10 or 12% It's something that's normal. I think that each of us sees what is the result of inflation, the food, fuel, services and all that is traded and is needed to sustain each of our families. Ladies and gentlemen, during our meeting here, Minister Skuza said that with inflation of around 5% About PLN 10 billion influences the state budget. If we do the math, it turns out that at almost 8%, and at the beginning of the year it could be close to 10%. Well, I hope it doesn't. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ Ooh 18, 20 billion PLN more will affect the state budget. It'll come from where? It will come from every citizen's pockets, from every Pole's pockets and from every Pole's pockets. But what is the subject of our deliberations today, which I think is positive, because it is necessary, maybe very late, but it is a thing... Here too I will quote Polish economists who say that the draft of this... this bill has already been introduced. Here's what I'm talking about. still on the draft law. flattens inflation at the beginning of the year from 0,3 to 0,5% to make up for this flattening period after May 31st. The Minister said a very important thing when we talked: that it is until May, but the government will follow the situation, i.e. if there is still a need for a reaction in June, July or May, then such reactions will be so that inflation will not become completely out of control. Poland, ladies and gentlemen, is today in the top five in the European Union in terms of inflation. And you can't just blame it on external factors, because external factors... Average inflation in the euro countries and the European Union is 4.9% But there are countries where it's 1.9, 0.7%. Of course there are countries like Lithuania or Latvia, where it is 9%, 9,5% in the case of Lithuania. We, let me remind you, have 7.7%. Therefore, 60% , or maybe almost the second amount, this is the result of the Polish government's activity in terms of inflation. And what did the Polish economists say? That this increase in inflation higher than the average in the European Union is the result of an expansive government and central bank policy. What do you mean, translated into such a simple language? Ladies and gentlemen, if in 2015... Sorry... From 2015 to today, the increase in the amount of public debt is about PLN 500 billion, which is statistically between 85 billion and 90 billion a year. Let me just remind you, statistically in the PO-PSL government, the public debt grew by about PLN 40 billion a year. I will also say that in particular the period of these 4 years, 2015.2019, this is the period of the greatest economic growth in the European Union, Poland and the world. Have we used this period of wealth for what is important, namely putting aside for difficult times? Absolutely not. These figures show that an expansive government policy in spending money, broadly understood, was and is still one of the very dangerous politicians. That's one thing. Secondly, this expansive policy... I'm just going to give you two facts here. Namely, if we look at the expenditure related to the budget, the one we are going to talk about, we will see that, for example. in KPRM between 2015 and next year, 2022... Do you know how much KPRM expenditure increases? 644%. Of course there is a translation that new tasks, tasks need to be adjusted... More than 20 new institutions are established and more than 40 different danins and fees are introduced. This policy leads among others. to the effect that we have almost twice as much inflation as average inflation in the European Union. And it's not something that's right next to us. This inflation applies to every Polish woman and every Pole. It's a pocket drain. As I said at the outset, if this continues, the revenue increase resulting from the increase in inflation will be between 18 and 20 billion. I'll remind you again. At 5% increase in inflation Minister Skuz estimated this at around 10 billion, these values were given at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Those internal factors, I ask you countries that affect inflation, include the unreasonably central bank policy. That's what Polish economists say. We remember about interest rates. No problem, everything is under control, we keep the lowest interest rates on loans in the European Union, in Europe, and perhaps in the world, in order to... You also remember the President's statement: we have unlimited amounts of money, cash, gold. It's not like money is born out of printers. Money is a derivative of the value of economic production as a whole, of services, of production, of everything related to the national economy. This cannot be produced in a printer, and then said that we have unlimited amounts of money, and maintain the lowest rate in the European Union. A complete lack of respect for money and its value, combined with expansive expenses. And what do Polish economists offer you now? Ladies and gentlemen, there are several elements proposed by Polish economists. Firstly, monetary policy, because interest rates must be real, adequate to what is happening on the market. It is not possible for political, ideological reasons to keep interest rates at zero and to say that this is beneficial. In the short term, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is as effective as it was then. I will no longer mention the name of the country in which the economy was built, so as not to arouse emotion. When money was pumped unremembered, money was granted for all kinds of actions, for readiness to work, for other things. After 10 years, it ended tragically. I am talking about this, Minister, in order for you to listen not necessarily to the political voice, because it can be said that politicians in their statements contain this political element, they look from this point of view. I quote here the voice of Polish economists. Secondly, a compromise with the European Union is needed in budgetary matters. I do not say what compromise, but I say: compromise with the European Union. EUR 5 billion, which will quickly affect the Polish market, plus another EUR 50 billion, is the value of money that will affect 2 cases: it will stabilise the value of gold and increase the value of hard capital investments in Poland, which is very, very necessary because the level of investment in Poland is insufficient. This is one of the conditions that the government should be asking: yes, we have to do this. I do not say how to compromise, but this agreement should be so that this money will reach the Polish economy and Polish citizens as soon as possible. No new transfers This is a very important element. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Government is introducing a lot of new transfers, and therefore there is a suggestion, Minister, about what we have proposed as the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and as the Civic Coalition for a year due to the need for preparation and due to the inflexiogenic element. Let's reschedule by a year. I'll give you an example. It is estimated that those with the lowest income on the introduction of the Polish Load will benefit from between PLN 120 and PLN 170 net, but inflation will eat a similar or higher amount. Therefore, consider the government whether it is not worth taking decisive steps, but to control inflation, which is dangerous, which is, as I said, cancer for every family. [[Timer signal]] The last two sentences, Mr. Marshal. Polish economists say: the need to introduce shields for people with the lowest incomes and to reduce taxes on raw materials and fuel over a period longer than May. Therefore, Minister, I would like you to take into account the voice of Polish economists during discussions on procedures and strategies related to combating inflation, so that inflation does not eat our income. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u46	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u47	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Today we are debating the Tax Reduction Act, a law that we have already said It is part of an anti-inflationary shield, a shield that is also the government's response to rising prices, rising prices of services, goods, and above all rising energy prices, which also drive this inflation. My previous speaker critically referred to the financial policy of our country, the government after 2015. He was talking about disrespect for money. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's time for political debate right now, but what respect for money can we talk about for our predecessors when the VAT gap by 2015 was over 24% and was one of the highest in the European Union? We can imagine how many billions of zlotys were leaking into the grey zone instead of going to the state budget. What kind of respect was that for money? Now, I will remind you, according to the estimates of the European Commission, because I give estimates of the European Commission, this VAT gap has fallen to 11%. It is still large, although it is among the smallest in Europe, in the European Union, but it is money that could power the budget and not power it, and there is certainly still much to do to seal the public finance system all the time. But I will recall the government's actions after 2015. This is a whole package of laws and seals the public finance system, and repairing the public finance system, a package that caused the vato gap to fall. The revenues from CIT have also increased, although CIT has been reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, this, of course, has led to the real impact of billions of zlotys on the state budget. The amount of revenue in the state budget in 2015 is PLN 280 billion, and in 2021, 2022 is over PLN 420 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a growing debt. Of course, we know what this situation was like before the Coronavirus pandemic. We know that... how much was public debt in 2015 compared to GDP? 57%. We were close to that border, that constitutional barrier. And how much did he make before the outbreak of the pandemic? At that time, the ratio of public debt to GDP was 46.5%. This is the World Bank's data. And when we launched an anti-crisis shield, a financial shield supporting Polish entrepreneurs in order to preserve the potential of companies and at the same time keep jobs... Because it was about preventing unemployment, because there is no worse disaster than unemployment for thousands, millions of people. A man without a job often loses meaning in his life. And we know that unemployment, which has been such a gangrene over the years in Poland, is really a huge disaster. So there was this job protection. Powerful Help for Entrepreneurs Began More than PLN 200 billion. And when you take into account both the shields and the financial instruments used by banks when it comes to entrepreneurs, it was over PLN 300 billion. And see that this reduction in public debt relative to GDP has given this financial space to mobilise this kind of aid to entrepreneurs after the outbreak of the pandemic of Coronavirus, after the lockdown, which, after all, stopped the economy to a large extent. What if the coronavirus showed up when you were in charge? What would you do to help entrepreneurs? Companies would fall in thousands, and millions of people would just go to unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, in some sense as a result of this financial assistance, which saved jobs and the potential of companies, some inflationary potential has been liberated. It's connected, too. Besides, this reflection of the economy after the pandemic also drives inflation, and it is not only in Poland. That's what economists are talking about. This is not only the case in Poland. Where there is high economic growth when you get out of the crisis, when you get out of the pandemic, inflation is also growing. And this concerns, for example, our neighbours, the Germans, because in Germany inflation now, before Christmas, is already reaching That's what economists are talking about. - Sixty-six So it is not so that only Poland cannot cope with inflation, that inflation affects only Poland. But, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, there is a certain dependence that in those countries that have very low economic growth, they are very slowly coming out of the crisis caused by lockdown, the coronavirus, also inflation is lower. And in those countries that are rushing, like the United States, inflation is also rising. What affects inflation? First of all, energy prices. And why are energy prices so high, ladies and gentlemen? The coal used three times, the gas. 10 times. After all, we know that energy prices are primarily influenced by speculation of CO2 emissions. And that's where the appeal... The Sejm has adopted such a resolution, but not only Poland, but Spain also says that changes need to be made in relation to this system of CO2 emissions trading. Because these powers have become the subject of speculation and unknown financial institutions simply speculate these powers, causing their price to rise. Well, two weeks ago it was probably 80 euros per tonne of CO2, and now it's about 100 euros per tonne or more than 90 euros per tonne. So these prices are rising very quickly. But there is also, I think, a space for discussion to suspend this system while it comes out of the crisis or reform it so that it does not give in to speculation. Because we later have to buy these rights from some actually unknown institutions, we don't know who's buying them, who's causing this price increase. And that has a real impact on energy prices. And the rise in energy prices is also an increase in prices for goods and services. Gas. How much gas did he use? And again, ladies and gentlemen, what is the cause of this? Isn't that because such a monopoly on the supply of gas to the European market has one supplier? We're talking about Gazprom here. Well, he actually dominated the gas market here. And we see that he's using his advantage, his market position. And the European Union seems, in some way, helpless, powerless, not responding as it should react. Valuable gas has increased, increased 10 times. Well, of course it also affects the prices of goods and services. I think that urgent action at European Union level is also necessary here, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said, and this is also to be mentioned at the next summit. The law discussed here, as well as the law on protective additives, which will also be examined at the present meeting, are a real help, a real help especially for consumers, especially for Polish families, energy and gas consumers, as well as those who buy fuel. Because it is to be expected that thanks to these laws, which are also a burden on the state budget for an amount, I think, of some kind. $8.9 billion... This is real help and I am convinced that it will work, that in the near future the prices of these energy products will fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to explain a little of what I said here in front of you. I wasn't quoting any politicians here, I was just quoting what's in the paper, 95%, because there was a small comment I made in some places. It was above all a quote of Polish economists. And I thank you that, as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, you praise the government's actions in this area, that we are the best, the most dynamic and the most caring economy in Europe. But I would like to remind you once again, Mrs. Marshal, that we may differ in interpretation, but the figures are absolute: there is an increase in public debt from PLN 85 to PLN 95 billion per year. I didn't say here that the cause was a pandemic, but your marshal said it. Those are the facts. 6 years at the level, let's assume, 80 billion zlotys a year... versus 2015... and these are facts. Now that we're talking about respect for money... I also quote Polish economists here, Mrs. Marshal. I do not recall that the President of the National Bank of Poland, no matter how long he said what he said about money, about how much we have, how much we want, that everything is under control, inflation is at a controlled level plus minus 1%. We were, with the committee, at a meeting at the central bank, before inflation increased. And, you might say, I left built after this meeting, with Mr President and other members of the committee. Well, built. If the President assures us of the success of macroeconomic monetary policy, how can we not trust him? Well, we have to trust someone. But then it turns out it's all falling apart, totally falling apart. And you can blame it on... you can say that the cause is the rising prices of gas, oil, etc. Only in these most developed or dynamically developing economies, Mrs. Marshal, like Ireland and Germany, you certainly know that inflation is at 5%. And we're almost 8%. So I'm not talking about that inflation in Poland is 100% It's the government's fault. We are talking about what is a surplus above today's European average, at 4.951%. This is clearly due to the government and monetary policy of the President. Now when it comes to money and VAT issues... I'm glad your marshal didn't give you the amount that... Because here, as you remember, a few years ago it was said that thanks to the sealing of the system it affects the Polish budget about PLN 40 billion a year, here from this tribune, many ministers presented... Your marshal didn't say that again. We know how much it's affected. These declarations concerning how much has been received as a result of sealing, were made by the Polish government to the European Union, to the institutions of... And it's absolutely not that amount. But never mind, never mind the amount. Let me just remind you, Mrs. Marshal: in the information that has been sent to the Union... On the basis of this, a study has been developed on all countries. And genuinely Poland has a lot of success here. And also praise the government that he has introduced what concerns sealing VAT policy. Nevertheless, in the document drawn up, Mrs Marshal, there is a statement... Do you know what's so major there, the first thing about VAT sealing? Single control file. Do you remember when he was brought in? It was introduced in 2014. I don't remember, but we probably voted together back then... [[The voice from the room: No, no, the PiS was against it.]] No? Was the PiS against it? Excuse me. Because I wanted to commend you. You were against a document that was considered to be the one that started sealing VAT. It can be alleged and can be blamed for previous governments that this was only introduced in 2014, with this I am able to agree. But saying that only you are the best in the world, in Poland, when it comes to sealing the VAT gap... Well, that's part true. And now about the budget... We're gonna talk about the budget here. I'll just tell Mrs. Marshal, Senator, one sentence. Yesterday was a fantastic meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, where a large number of former finance ministers were hosted. And I want to tell you that Poland has the largest In addition to Malta, the percentage of the budget outside the control of Parliament in Europe. And these are the elements that also affect inflation growth. So I'm not making any political comment here, I'm giving maximum facts, minimum commentary. He used to be in the Radio Trinity, when she was still a real radio Trinity, such a program called "Minimax," a minimum word, maximum music. I also provided as many elements concerning the position of Polish economists here. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u50	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Komarnicki, Sweden and Gromko have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion went a little beyond the bill and became a discussion about macroeconomics and inflation, so I'm forced to refer to it. There has been a debt issue and a deficit issue here, and I need to give the High House some data so that there are some thesis that have been made here without comment. First thing. There is a clear point in the anti-inflationary shield that we will carry out a reasonable consolidation of public finances. She won't mean the end of the programs that are already in place. Both implemented for several years, such as the 500+ programme, as well as recently, but for which their first results are already visible, such as the Polish Government Programme. or programmes that are already announced, such as strengthening the defence of the Polish state. This consolidation of public finances will not be affected. We want to carry it where it really requires it, and it will concern both the public administration and, for example, the non-creation of new targeted funds or the limitations of those already in force. As I said, this will not apply to programmes already announced or implemented. I always react very strongly when there is a thesis that public debt has increased by this amount. The nominal value shall be given. This is a certain macro-economic cheating by numbers, because there is no nominally no public debt, but it is given in relation to GDP. If we had shown, if nominal debt had increased, for example, Italy or France in the last 6 years, it would have turned out that these amounts are much higher than they are now. Let me remind you that these are countries that love to teach Poland, as well as Brussels It is worth looking at Belgium's debt in relation to GDP, as to what standards we should have, whether the rule of law or fiscal. The question is whether countries like Belgium or France, which have more than 100% debt in relation to GDP, to teach Poland, which has a debt of less than 60% compared to GDP. Are these really the countries that should set the standard for how to conduct public finances in Poland? So let's say that if nominal debt of Belgium and France has increased over the last seven years, let's say this amount. Let's have a comparative measure. But it doesn't apply. Why? Because the benchmark is the deficit-to-GDP ratio. According to the EU nomenclature, which covers both PFR and KFD funds and COVID counter-fund, all funds implemented by the public sector are included. And from 2016 until 2020 there was an 8% decrease in relation to GDP. This methodology should be used. Of course, last year there was a dynamic increase in these percentage points. This is due to the fact that we have launched aid programmes for Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens. But last year the deficit was not record in Poland's history, because such record deficits were in 2009 and 2010, then there were record deficits in relation to GDP. Despite the fact that last year we launched really powerful aid programs, which have not yet been seen in Poland, because I do not remember that ever in Poland's history there was a serious aid programme such as PFR or COVID counter fund, it was not the largest, record deficit of public finances, because it was 7% , and in 2009 and 2010 it was higher. And another piece of data I'd like to mention to you. According to the data of the European Commission, which, I think, has no reason to favour the government here, the public finance deficit, including the COVID counter-fund, including the National Road Fund, including the PFR, is 2,8% for the last four quarters. So according to the data of the European Commission, we are already in the Maastricht criteria in terms of the deficit of public finances. It is too early to open champagne, because the fourth quarters are always the hardest, but everything points out that compared to 2020 in 2021, it will be important to break the deficit. As the forecasts of the European Commission and credit rating agencies show, Poland is on the best track to meet the Maastricht criteria in the future, within a year or two, i.e. to keep debt below 60% and not to reach 60%. , but rather approach the level of 50% In addition, the financial sector deficit is below 3%. Finally, I'm going to quote some data. This deficit for the last 4 quarters, according to the liquid year, is 2,8% is a deficit below the EU average as regards the deficit for the last 4 quarters at Member State level. So if we are talking in Poland about the supposed destabilisation of public finances, we are talking about Poland's debt to power, then let's look at many other EU countries. And maybe before Brussels starts teaching us how to run public finances, let it determine how it is going to go down with the deficit below 3% and with its debt. less than 100% GDP. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Because the conclusions have been made... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[In replica mode, if you don't mind. Okay?]] All right.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u53	I would like to point out that Brussels is not teaching us about the deficit or the debt. Absolutely not such signals from Brussels. Brussels is aware that the pandemic has caused a breach of the Maastricht rules so far and will certainly be working on some changes in this area at the moment. So don't accuse Brussels of that. However, Brussels is indeed paying attention to serious errors, shortcomings and shortcomings in the rule of law. Yeah, but this is a whole other thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u54	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. I'm handing you over to the marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u55	We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 592, and the report of the Commission In print No 592 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the meeting of the budget committee, we discussed the law on amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. This law applies, in general, to a few areas of change. The first point is to bring Polish legislation into line with the EU excise duty directives. The second relates to the introduction of tax preferences for small independent producers of alcoholic beverages. When we talk about adapting to EU legislation, we are primarily raising the element of introducing the electronicisation of internal EU movements of excise goods. And this is the first shift. This is the first category I told you about earlier. The second change, which is important for many producers, small, small, independent, is a change that says that thanks to this amendment the legislation will be introduced for producers of alcoholic beverages certain preferences, and above all we are talking about halving the excise duty rate and adding the definition of a small independent producer to the law. That's what I'm talking about. I've taken the liberty of doing the math. More than 150 Polish vineyards, dozens of producers of cider and pot honey and 62 thousand Polish Sadists. Eight amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. These amendments were accepted by the committee. The Commission recommends the adoption of an amendment act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u58	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I understand that this solution is beneficial for these producers. Was there a voice of their environment expressed at the committee meeting? Did they make any views on the bill, the draft amendments, or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u59	There were no producers' representatives, or at least they did not speak in this matter, but it is absolutely acceptable to accept these changes in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u60	Is anybody... [[Senator Czerwiński.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The State proposes in the amendments to postpone the entry into force of this law by 1 month, from 1 January to 1 February. But if it's beneficial, wouldn't it be better to give such a formula that the bill comes into force, suppose, 14 days after the day of the announcement, with effect from January 1st? Then the wolf would be full and the sheep would be whole. And legislatively... then these benefits would have been since January 1st.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u62	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u63	I will not refer to who would be satisfied and who would not be satisfied, but in fact such a proposal to change the date of entry into force of the law has been accepted. It seems to satisfy the standard that... well, the taxpayer in any formula should not be surprised in such a way and at such a rate as to the proposed changes. And that's how we do some kind of breach in this situation when it comes to the entry into force of these provisions or tax decisions. Of course, as the senator pointed out, these are positive and good changes, but we would like to propose such legislation as we adopted at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u64	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u65	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law contains solutions whose main idea and main objective is to implement three EU excise directives, so-called "tax." horizontal, alcohol and defence directives. This presentation contains many elements. Of course, the most important, most favourable and most postulated, expected by Polish producers of alcoholic beverages and by Polish farmers or fruitists is the issue of introducing tax preferences for small independent producers of alcoholic beverages, i.e. a reduction of up to 50% the basic excise duty rate, of course adding the definition of a small independent producer and introducing a system of certification of such producers. While only brewers have been included in this type of preference, i.e. a reduction in excise duty for small producers, it will now also apply to other producers of alcohol products, e.g. regional vodka, wine, pot honey, cider or perry. This is very good news for about 150 Polish vineyards, cider producers, as well as perry producers, as well as for about 62 thousand Polish Sadists, who will be able to take their products, fruits to the distillery with half their excise duty and receive a good regional product, which naturally increases the attractiveness of their tourism projects. But it's not all that. The proposed law also contains solutions to facilitate the operation of businesses, primarily facilitating the distance selling of excise goods with excise duties paid in another European Union country, and simplifying excise securities. For the first time, the use of a single security for the activities of an entity with different excise status will be permitted. Importantly, this submission will also carry out the electronicisation within the EU of excise goods movements with excise duties paid. The deadline for implementation is mid-February 2023. This gives entrepreneurs time to prepare for this kind of change. The effect will be positive and there will be a seal, because the further the electronicization is carried out and there is a departure from paper documents, the better the analytical possibilities on the part of the National Tax Administration and the greater the security for honest producers. For this reason, I would kindly ask the High House to accept this law in the form presented by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. The current senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the government representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Minister, I think you're gonna have to come back. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Mind if I take a seat?]] There you go. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a further question previously addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur. On the one hand, it is proposed to introduce some minor drafting, legislative and, on the other hand, the entry into force of the law for a month, i.e. what is to be beneficial, will be later in the legal circulation. If we had already introduced these legislative changes, wouldn't it be better to use such a formula that the law enters into force, suppose, 14 days after the announcement with effect from 1 January? Then the legislative situation will be clear, and the law will become effective as soon as possible for our producers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u68	Thank you. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u69	We support this proposal. We also want all the provisions of the Act to become effective as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Paul Arndt's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the Minister spoke of a reduction in excise duty for certain alcohol producers. But there's also a record in this bill that says there's a raise for a certain group of alcoholic beverages producers. Could the Minister say a few words about how much this excise duty is growing and what group is this concerned?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u72	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u73	Of course, the change concerns sugary beer. This is a return to the regulation that operated in Poland from 1993 to 2018. As a result of the judgment of the TSUE in 2018, it was necessary to amend the rules for calculating the amount of excise duty by changing the method of calculating Plato grades. At the request of Poland at the level of the EU legislature, the directive was amended, opening the possibility for Poland to return to these previous rules implemented by Poland. So that these changes appeared in the directive. The market had known for an hour zero that we wanted to continue the way of taxation which existed in Poland for almost a quarter of a century, hence constant contact with the industry, thus adding this solution to the draft implementing the provisions of the directive, which again opened up this possibility, and thus the effect of returning to known companies practice. Taste beer is now approx. 8,5 and 10% the market. The change itself is of a technical nature, but it will actually increase the amount of excise duty in the finished product, i.e. 6 and 8 gr in the case of a semi-litre bottle of sweetened beer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u75	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you... Because this bill was, I understand, brought to the Sejm by the Council of Ministers on 29 November. Well, when it comes to tax issues, you always need suitable vacathio legis, preparation, etc. It would be good for changes to enter into force from the new calendar year with all procedures and deadlines in place. So I have a question for you. It's a bill, I'd say, technical, it's not complicated. Could it not have been referred to Parliament earlier? Then we would not have this dilemma related to vacathio legis, which is currently being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u76	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u77	The aim of the Act is to implement the amendments to the Directives. These amendments to the directives have been implemented, completed at EU level in the last months of 2020, so that without any delay we have started work on the implementation of these provisions in Polish law. Information that we will implement these provisions was made available to market operators almost immediately. As early as June we received an entry in the list of government work, so the content of these provisions, including the dates of their entry into force, was known to the market. I would also like to stress very strongly that the vast majority of the solutions in the bill presented are solutions that benefit companies, expected by them, facilitating their business, possibly those that are known to companies, because they functioned on such terms for decades. So that we have not identified this danger regarding the inability of companies to prepare for changes in law at any stage of legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u78	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Could I ask the Minister for a few words, literally a few, about amending the Personal Income Tax Act of October 29th? Could the Minister say in two sentences what this change is? And the second point: whether the draft of this law, especially as regards the reduction of excise duty on alcoholic beverages produced, in short, by small entrepreneurs in Poland... I actually agree with that. But was this project assessed by the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u80	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u81	This submission has been assessed by the Minister of Health and has passed the whole public consultation process. As regards the changes concerning the new Tax Act, the Polish Government, these are changes of an editorial nature, which have been introduced as a response to requests made to us by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, what was the opinion of the Minister of Health? Positive, I understand. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u84	Yes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u85	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] I don't have... [[Voices from the room: Well, he didn't report. Now he volunteered.]] Would Senator Leszek Czarnobaj like to speak? The senator didn't sign up. [[I'm sorry.]] There you go. [[Delayed reflexes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, in general, what is contained in this law, I personally don't know what the rest of it is, colleagues from the Civic Coalition. What concerns the implementation of directives, their implementation, tax reductions and other issues that are beneficial for Polish entrepreneurs deserves to be recognised as much as possible. I am quite clear: in this respect, I will vote in favour. But I have some comments. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember how we recently adopted an excise increase? What was one of the main arguments for increasing excise duty here? Remember? I will remind you: we had to increase excise duty, but not for fiscal reasons, not for business reasons, Polish entrepreneurs, etc., etc. This solution, which provides for excise preferences for Polish small entrepreneurs, I consider, Minister, to be a good solution, but then the main argument given by the Minister of Health in particular, and supported by Minister Sarnowski, was that we must raise excise duties in order to limit accessibility. So I ask: aren't Polish alcohols, for which we will lower the excise duty so that their price is lower, harmful? Are we facilitating access or not facilitating access? We're not making it easy, okay. If that is the case, if Senator Jackowski represents the views of the Government of Law and Justice, I accept that, although I do not understand it at all. So we increase to limit availability, but as we lower excise duty on Polish alcohols, that's okay. I, of course, believe that economic policy should be based on the fact that what is Polish gets certain preferences, of course as much as possible, as much as it was agreed with the European Union. But do not use such arguments in the future that we increase, because we care for the welfare of Poles etc. It just doesn't add up, it doesn't have any reflection either. In those countries where there has been the greatest drop in alcohol consumption, Minister, people's behaviour towards alcohol, not just the price, have been affected. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, we have made these amendments not because we do not agree with the content of what you are saying here, but... Please pay attention to these facts. On October 29th, the Polish Lad was adopted. We were talking about how he's underworked to work on it and start implementing it... We talked about him being discussed with various industries, businesses, political environments, academics, etc. ♪ To this day ♪ ♪ It's gone ♪ How much? Two, three weeks and the Minister says this very important thing: by listening to the voice of the environment, we improve. So you didn't listen before? Well, Minister, that's why there's consultations, long consultations, conversations, so you don't get to do that first, and then... And now, please note This is characteristic of this meeting That the correction of the Polish Government appears in almost every law in which it could be done, even in the Act on the National Bank of Poland there will be such correction concerning the work of prisoners. That's how it's gonna be. This is amazing. I would like to quote Mr Klein's statement: we create such legal galimatias in various laws are so different things. No one's gonna figure it out. Well, except for Minister Sarnowski, who, I understand, has a thorough understanding of this. But we don't build the law, Minister, for the ministry, just for people who look at documents from time to time and want to be clear. Let the changes to the preferences for excise duty on alcohol be introduced in such a law that concerns alcohol-related excise duty, there should be all these amendments, and there should be changes to the consumer credit rules in the consumer credit law. These three laws you're proposing here... It was possible to use the so-called. a quick legislative path, give prints separate numbers, make separate laws that will apply only to a given area. You are making a terrible mess in the Polish legal system, terrible. It's not enough that we spend, Minister... There's this portal, the barometer of the law. It turns out that we are at the forefront when it comes to producing law in Europe. Is there prosperity out of this law? I assure you, Minister, no. The less rights, the more prosperity, and the more rights, the worse the conditions in terms of economic activity and the lives of citizens. Therefore, please, once again, Minister, stop making a mess in the Polish legal system. Create laws that are specific to a given area, and do not make changes to different laws just because they are needed. We don't question the need... As you know, as you heard at the committee meeting, we did not comment on the substance. Here we agree, if something's good, let's do it. But let's not make such a legal mess. And this also confirms our Senate Legislative Office, that this is a complete suspension of the process of law-making in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wouldn't speak if Senator Blackbay didn't refer to me, not know why... [[I'm listening to the voice...]] I've decided to explain the situation so that Senator Czarnobaj has no doubt and that someone doesn't have a false impression that doesn't match my intentions. Well, Mr. Senator, I am in favour of clear, clear rules when it comes to taxing all drugs. For some reason, we have a certain policy of the state, we justify it. But let's apply different measures to different... that is the same measures to a given product range. Therefore, as in the High Chamber, at the previous Senate meeting there was a discussion about excise duties on tobacco products, I raised the issue of the fact that... I had doubts as to why products from this higher shelf, above the amount, seem to be, 16,20 PLN as per a pack of cigarettes. They were not treated in the same way as tobacco products with lower costs. And that's what I was talking about. And as for the general principle, I have this point: let's apply the same measure, so that there is no later doubt, discussion, why it is so, and not otherwise, that there is also a relativization of motivation. Well, once it's said that it's health, another time it's an economic interest or a social interest. You can always say something like that. If you can do that, you can justify everything. I simply ask for clear fiscal policy rules, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko and Wadim Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. At the moment, we are considering item 5 of the agenda. Due to the temporal collision Government representatives also have a speech in the Sejm We'll go to point four later. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the act on voluntary firefighters. The text of the Act is contained in print No 589, and the report of the Commission In print No 589 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have the peace now? I very much welcome the representative of the government, Minister Wąsik, and Captain Bartosz Pawnik, Mr Jack Bugaj and Mr Adam Necessary of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards. [[Voice from the hall: from the State Fire Department.]] Sorry, it was a mistake in the script. Excuse me. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Komorowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the committee, I would like to present a report on the work of the committee on the Volunteer Fire Department Act. The bill contained in Senate print No 589 was deposited with the Senate after its adoption by the Sejm. Let me just remind you that the government project was introduced to the Sejm on 9 November, and it was sent to the first reading on 16 November. The first reading, i.e. working in committees, took place on 29 November. Further work: On 1 December a second reading took place and on 2 December the law was adopted at third reading. It was adopted with 437 votes in favour and in the absence of votes against, 1 Member abstained. On December 3, the bill was passed to the Senate Marshal. The Senate Marshal addressed it to the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and on 13 December a committee meeting and its first reading took place. The Act basically regulates the system of voluntary firefighters in 1 normative act. It is worth noting that, as has been the case so far, fire protection units that are associations are regarded as voluntary firefighters. These are uniformed formations, equipped with special equipment designed to combat fires, natural disasters and other local threats. The law regulates the scope of voluntary firefighters' activities. He also talks about creating youth and children's fire teams. It regulates the functioning of voluntary firefighters in municipalities, directly in municipalities. According to the new regulations, the municipality is obliged to conclude an agreement with voluntary firefighters. The Act also refers to the training provided by the State Fire Department for rescue firefighters of TSOs. Among the members of the voluntary firefighters, there are two categories: CSR firefighters and CSR rescue firefighters, i.e. those firefighters who are directly involved in rescue operations and rescue operations. The law also provides for compensation, which has been expected for a long time by a voluntary fire community. Volunteer firefighters were looking forward to the introduction of a rescue allowance as a service allowance for years to the pension paid by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The Act proposes rescue benefits of PLN 200 per month if the firefighter actively participated in rescue operations or rescue operations for at least 25 years in the case of men and at least 20 years in the case of women. The bill has been discussed. There was a discussion, there was an opinion of the Legislative Bureau. The Legislative Office has tabled 12 proposals for amendments. After discussion, 4 proposals from the Legislative Bureau's opinion to the Volunteer Fire Department Act were agreed with the Minister. These are amendments 5, 8, 9 and 11 and clarification amendments 1, 2 and 3. They are at the end of the opinion. During the work on the bill there was a discussion. There were representatives of the union side, former president of Waldemar Pawlak, former vice-president of the main board, Mr Leśniakiewicz, former trade union patron, Mr Miazga, there was another person. There's been a discussion and as long as possible... There were several elements that were discussed. One of them was Art. 3 talking about a catalogue of cases that can be handled by voluntary firefighters. The proposal of the trade union site was that this catalog might be extended a little bit and that it should be, above all, an open catalog. The Government Party has put forward its arguments. According to the government, this catalogue should be a closed catalogue and was adopted at a committee meeting. There was also a discussion on the provisions of the article. 7 of the Act, i.e. an article that introduces new solutions, namely that the municipality is obliged to conclude agreements with all voluntary firefighters operating in its territory. At the moment, voluntary firefighters operate in municipalities, but in the current state of law such contracts are not required and are not signed. There's no deal like that. There was a proposal to delete this record as redundant, because as of today voluntary firefighters operate in individual municipalities without signing the relevant contracts. However, after the first reading, after work in the committee, it was not denied as if it were the mouth. 2 of this provision, which states that if there is no fire protection unit in the municipality, then the municipality is obliged to conclude such an agreement with the neighbouring municipality in which it operates. It was agreed to remove the mouth. Article 2 8, the consequence of which would be that Article. 8 would be without paragraphs, or the contents of the mouth. 1 would constitute a comprehensive Article. 8. There was a discussion on employers' rights. The employer is required to release during rescue operations or rescue operations of firefighters, i.e. friends of TSOs. There has been a discussion on whether the employer is therefore obliged to pay the remuneration, or whether there is no obligation to pay the remuneration. At the committee meeting, such a proposal was made to include the fact that the employer has such an obligation to pay the salary, but after the discussion we remained in the position that, however, the current legal situation in this area regulates it so freely and well that... It is up to the employer to pay it or to pay it. The obligation of employers to pay such remuneration would have two consequences. Firstly, there could be some dissatisfaction from employers, because they unnecessarily incur additional costs and thus employing workers who are firefighters could encounter some kind of handicap. Secondly, there would be additional consequences in the form of claims to the State Treasury to cover these costs. As of today, according to the regulations, the employer is an art. It simply relieves the employer from the provision of work, and it is as if the employer depends on the payment of the salary. There are examples, especially in municipalities where persons employed as drivers of TSOs leave for rescue operations, rescue operations and for this purpose the employer does not deduct the remuneration. So that this record in this project remained. During the discussion it was also discussed... was raised by the union party above all by the issue of rescue services. When it comes to rescue, there is a record of this kind. It's an art. In order to be eligible for 200 PLN per month, the fireman must be of a certain age, a 65-year-old man, a 60-year-old woman, but must also participate in rescue operations or rescue operations for men for at least 25 years and for women for at least 20 years. The trade union party raised, and made such a proposal, that in both cases it should be a period of at least 15 years. However, such an amendment was not tabled at the committee meeting and was not accepted. On the other hand, it was adopted in this Article. 16 Proposal for amendment of the Fifth Legislative Office, namely to replace the semicolon with the word "and to ensure consistency" and this is agreed with the government party.coherence between point 1 and point 2 of paragraph 2. 16. There was a discussion, and it came from the committee meeting... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 17 is further clarified. Nine, which is... Since there are administrative decisions issued by municipal and district commanders who will be entitled to pay rescue benefits, these decisions, in particular negative decisions, are subject to appeal. The law did not clarify to what extent and to what extent that body might be entitled to an appeal. In order to avoid a dispute of competence as to whether the self-government Board of Appeal is to consider whether the competent command of the State Fire Department was tabled, which was supported by the government party. It is reflected in the report and clarifies that it is entitled to appeal to the competent regional commander of the State Fire Service. All those amendments that have been... At first reading, the committee adopted a bill with amendments agreed with the government, both with proposals from the Legislative Office and those made during the discussions. They are all reflected in the report, in a report from the committee of this meeting. So much for work. If there's any questions, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u92	I'll have two questions. If your marshal will allow me, I will first ask one, then the other. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that the Senate's proposal for the Act on Pension Allowances for Volunteer Firefighters, which was adopted by the Senate, previously by the Legislative Commission, was more financially beneficial for a large group of volunteer firefighters, since it assumed 20 PLN for each year of participation in rescue and fire operations, which could have been higher than the sum proposed in this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u93	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u94	In general, at the committee's meeting, the subject of the Senate draft law was raised, but no amendment was introduced at the committee's meeting and no amendment was tabled in this regard. This rescue benefit, which must be added here, in accordance with the bill that is currently being processed, will be subject to annual valorization. But the fact is that in the Senate project that was adopted by the Senate, the stakes were probably higher, I don't remember exactly at the moment, but I think it was about a higher amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. [[I still have...]] Yeah, yeah. In that case, Senator, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will ask one more question. Then you're Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u96	Yes, I confirm that the senate project was more beneficial to volunteer firefighters than the government project. And second question. Is it true that the employer's salary... This case is not regulated here, but in some cases it is regulated in this way. This applies e.g. WOT soldiers It is the Treasury, the state budget, which regulates the remuneration for the period when the person does not perform his duties. The question is: is it true that there are already such solutions, e.g. in the case of WOT soldiers, which could be accepted, although not adopted in this particular project, and which could be used to regulate remuneration? Of course, it would not burden the employer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u98	Yes, this issue was raised at the committee meeting, although it was not presented in detail, there was no mention of what it looked like in the system. That's right, Art. 12 says only that the employer exempts from the operation of the firefighter CSR That's what I'm gonna do. Involved in rescue operations, rescue operations, trainings or exercises and for the time necessary to rest in accordance with the Labour Code. There was a point that only the regulation to the Labour Code regulates this issue a little bit, that this issue of remuneration is not regulated. And the question was raised and presented that, in fact, in the case of soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, a similar solution is justified. As I recall, Minister Wąsik, present at the meeting, said that the government or government would look at these solutions and it is not excluded that there might be a novel in this regard at some time. That's how I figured it out. Today there is no solution, but what is, as if it did not prohibit employers from paying such a salary. However, I am actually confirming that the discussion on the Territorial Defence Army, although not too big, took place at a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question... Because now, as I understand it, this bill brings together general targets, volunteer firefights tasks, and that sort of thing has been a little distracted so far. And I have a question about this business, let's say, culturally. Because some time ago, we were working on a bill that added this cultural role to volunteer firefighters' tasks, which is extremely important in local environments, for example. fire orchestras, etc., etc. Does this law change anything in this regard, or do the provisions of the previous law on this matter remain? That's my question. And the supplement is that in this Senate Act, as I remember correctly, was proposed 20 PLN for each documented year of service, which in some cases could be better than what is now, i.e. than those 200 PLN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u102	As far as this cultural activity is concerned, at a committee meeting on the subject I don't remember exactly, but I think so. We didn't have a discussion, this thread wasn't raised. I can only add that this law regulates a number of other issues, e.g. compensation for firefighters. There was a discussion about whether or not there was a danger that it would be like a double legal basis for payment of compensation, so it would be paid under the Act on Volunteer Firefighters and the Fire Protection Act. There are new decorations for firefighters. The Holy Florian Badge is introduced for the merits of the Local Community, which will be given by the Minister of Interior and Administration, and awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland the award of the Holy Cross of Florian. It's just in addition. So that the case you asked Senator Jackowski was not the subject of a committee meeting. We haven't talked about this, so as rapporteur, I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u104	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, is it clear after the discussion at the committee's meeting that it is not clear to me exactly what will happen if, of the three witnesses who are to confirm a rescue internship, no one is going to be a person of public confidence? I know that until some time there were no documents, now there are in the municipalities such documents as to confirm the payment of benefits for rescue operations to the volunteers. It's a document. But when he's an old man, he may not have a document like that, and a public figure who confirms it will not find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u105	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u106	I mean, I'm just gonna say this briefly... Because I raised this issue myself at the committee meeting and we tried to talk to the Minister about these witnesses and this person. That's what we're saying in a nutshell. Mr. Minister only replied that we are to understand this in a broad sense. They could be chiefs, community workers, different people. And, in fact, for today, we are left with this knowledge and this conviction that we had at the committee meeting. We will probably see how the practice will be in this regard, whether it will cause problems or not. In addition to the discussion we had at the committee meeting... I just don't have any more knowledge here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u108	Mr Rapporteur, Mr Senator, I have the following question. I mean, in a situation like this, it's all over the community. The municipality is mostly 20 towns, 30 villages or 40 villages. There isn't a single volunteer fire brigade. This situation is referred to in Article. 7. And I was just intrigued by this record that says that if there is no volunteer fire department unit, then you just have to make a deal with the neighboring municipality where that unit is. Tell me if there's any record that would encourage Of course, while maintaining the right to freedom of choice and freedom of association. However, while maintaining this right, it seems that there are various possibilities to encourage the setting up of such a voluntary fire brigade. Is there such an incentive in this bill? If not directly indicative of encouragement, it may indirectly encourage at least one such entity to be created before a contract with the neighbouring municipality is signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u109	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u110	I mean, we didn't talk about incentives at the committee meeting. There was a discussion about the article. 7. Except it's like there's no fire protection unit in the commune... And what is a fire protection unit is the Fire Protection Act of 24 August 1991. And in general I think the Minister said so. This may apply to several municipalities in the country. It's not a bigger problem, because it certainly doesn't apply to big cities. Although CSR units may not work there, fire protection units such as the JRG, i.e. the National Fire Service units, operate there. And then this requirement is met. And the municipality is not obliged to enter into agreements with individuals... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Someone else...]] ... fire protection. It would be obliged to conclude such an agreement if there was a state unit in the neighbouring municipality, for example, and there was no TSO in its own municipality. I don't know. It's hard for me to say anything about encouragement. I think it's the will of the local community... Above all, the municipal authorities should aim to have individuals in their territory. And the municipality is... Where does that come from? No municipality is obliged to ensure public security in this area. This is the task of the municipalities themselves. It must therefore be possible to implement this. If she does not perform this directly, on the basis of a contract with her units, she must conclude an agreement with the municipality where such entities are in order to be able to accomplish this task. The Minister merely mentioned during the discussion on this point, answering the question asked, that possibly... The question was whether there would be a project or a model agreement, some kind of agreement. And the Minister didn't rule it out. Because it's 2.5,000 or more than 2.5,000 municipalities in the country. That this should be structured in some way and that a draft of such an agreement may be presented, but we have not talked more about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. No questions. [[Thank you.]] At this point, I very warmly welcome the President of the General Board of the Association of Fire Volunteers, Mr Waldemar Pawlak, Prime Minister. Good morning. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I see the Minister is on his way to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! It is an honor for me to present to the High House a draft law on voluntary firefighters. Thank you very much to Senator Komorowski, because he discussed the principles of this law in very detail, he presented the work of the committee on this law very detailedly. From the government's side, I would like to add that this is an extremely expected act in the environment. It was forged in the course of many, several dozen, maybe even a few hundred, meetings that we had in various places. Yeah, even a few hundred, 'cause there's probably been a meeting in every county. We dated friends, talked to the community, asked about solutions, asked them what hurts them. This law is the result of these discussions, these consultations, these many, many meetings, usually very good. I will admit that I am very impressed by the meetings that I attended myself in, and I know that this law has been very well consulted socially, which, it seems, is its value. We have also tried to listen to the voices of different circles during parliamentary work, whether in the Seym or the Senate, and to look positively at the amendments that are being tabled. It seems that many of them, the ones that we supported as a government I hope the Senate will accept these amendments as well. It has made this law better, it will do its job better. I have listened to the questions and discussions that have been held in this House, and I would like to stress that, yes, as Senator Kwiatkowski said, there is a parliamentary project which assumed a higher amount but, for example, did not have an impact assessment. We assessed the impact of the regulation, assuming small additions, 200 zlotys, indexed annually, we estimated that this benefit will be received by 65 thousand friends in principle seniors. I would like to reassure the High Senate because we want to wait until this bill comes into force, these allowances will be paid, so we can evaluate all of this. If we can do better, we'll definitely want to make these extras better, higher, then it's obvious. It is very easy, Mr. Senator, to save 500 or 1000 PLN and to think: we will see what happens, let the Minister of Finance worry. We had a certain spending limit, we set that amount. We have remembered that many political environments, many, I think, all of them, have promised this to the volunteers, and we wanted to introduce these solutions into the pension system. That's the thing. really valuable and I will admit that I was very pleased that after many discussions and many questions, many doubts at the end of the Sejm adopted this law with 1 abstention. I was also very pleased that the Senate Committee adopted this bill, if I recall correctly, unanimously. I also hope that this law will be strongly supported in this House. I'm sure you can come up with higher benefits, yes, but you have to be responsible. The important thing is to get it into the system. We'll keep an eye on it. I would like to say that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, as before the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, attaches great importance to supporting voluntary firefighters. Indeed, this stream of money directed to the guard has been multiplied, at least doubled. We are aware that the mission of voluntary firefighters, apart from fire protection, is a cultural mission, that is the integration of the local community, that is the self-organization of the local community. It is a huge tradition which, in my opinion, allowed Polishness to survive in extremely difficult times, which were once. The role of volunteer guards is invaluable. I am at your disposal, High Seym... I'm so sorry. And with great pleasure I will answer all your questions. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Gawada. Senator, I'm just gonna say the formula... Senators can now submit no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. I'm asking the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u114	Minister, or firefighter rescuer after reaching 25 years of active participation in rescue and fire operations required by the law because of e.g. poor health that does not allow him to continue participating in the actions The doctor does not agree to this because of the circumstances, will he be able to apply for this supplement faster than at the required age of 65? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u115	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u116	Senator, I realize that this sense of justice tells us: well, desire was, but health didn't help... But I'm against public services being paid, for example. after 10 years of service or in this case. We didn't see this coming. Let's see how many situations like this are going to be. I would like to emphasise one more thing. Recognizing that many of the current seniors served in times where the documentation of combat operations was not as complete as it is today, we accepted the form of statements. We want it to be possible to make a statement supported by three witnesses, including one such person who had a public function at that time, was a councillor, councilman or employee of the municipality who could certify that this person at least once a year... I would like to stress that this is the requirement: once a year you have to leave for action. In this way, this benefit can be obtained. It is not said that it must be 25 years in a row for men or 20 years in a row for women. There may be breaks here, in the case of women caused e.g. motherhood, which is obvious. This number of years for women, just as a result of a public consultation... The bridesmaids have asked us to consider reducing this number and we have reduced it precisely because women are giving birth to children and are excluded from rescue activities at that time. It's obvious. So that we do not anticipate the situation that the senator was talking about, but we will certainly be reviewing the rules, looking at how this bill works, and we will examine very deeply its solutions. If further solutions are needed, just what the senator is talking about, we will certainly update the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u118	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. I understand that this benefit will be paid by the Home Office. I'm talking about this supplement after this service... My question is: will this amount be taxed on a general basis? What's it gonna look like from this side? And my second question. Does the government have simulations of the money we are talking about to satisfy this witness? How many potential firefighters and firefighters can be covered by this service of PLN 200 and how much can this amount be per year? What would that amount be if the procedure we proposed... You said that the Ministry would watch the bill function and that you would not exclude in the future, so to speak, the improvement of this benefit. Are there simulations of what kind of money we're talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u119	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u120	Yes, Mr. Senator, the benefit will be paid out of the ZER and will be taxed on general terms, although there were ideas to make it untaxed. Yes, there were ideas to be untaxed, but I would like to assure you that these pensions of the bridesmaids will be in a huge part of the pension of the KRUS-owskie, not the highest, in principle covered by the 30 thousandth relief in the Polish Łada. So you can say that this supplement will not actually be taxed after the entry into force of the Polish Order. Looks like he's just gonna be released. We're hoping we can fit in... that the annual cost of the allowances paid will be ok. 150 million zlotys. We're hoping 65,000 bridesmaids will be included in this addition. This is, as I say, respect. The reality will verify this, and we will be able to relate to it and evaluate it, possibly propose changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u122	Minister, I will refer to cultural tasks. I think we've been updating the bill in our previous term of office. That's when those assignments were added. This increased the prestige of cultural and social involvement of fellow firefighters in the life of the community. Does the Act change anything in this regard, or has it just been prescribed and remains at the same level as the definition?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u123	This law, of course, changes this a little bit, gives the possibility to finance the tasks of the article. 3 by the state and by the local government. Mr Senator, I would like to point out that the Act gives a certain privilege to voluntary firefighters, namely the privilege of organising mass events, which are obviously cultural, without the application of restrictive provisions of the Law on the security of mass events, i.e. without the need to provide physical protection officers. These functions will be performed by firefighters on a certain basis. The events will be organized in remessages with the permission of the council, as well as in other places of the commune. [[Timer signal]] This is a certain privilege and this also enhances the culturally-based functions of the TSO.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u124	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Bladder. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. Neither at the committee meeting nor now in this Chamber has there been a problem which, I believe, has been resolved very well in the bill. It's about art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Warehouses, mayors, communal treasurers, secretaries, managers, etc. may be members of the voluntary fire department. This has so far been excluded if these associations have carried on an economic activity to a certain extent. There were situations in Poland that councillors lost their mandates, because suddenly it turned out that the guard was conducting business activity. My question: who was the initiator of this change? It was finally settled, and it was crazy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u127	Mr. Senator, I have a slightly different opinion. This tightening is not curiosity, these are anti-corruption provisions of the Act on the conduct of business by persons performing public functions. There are certain prohibitions in this area. It's true, isn't it? After the public consultation and the position of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government... There were two signals here. There were friends who said, "We're either CSR activists, or we're self-government activists." It's kind of mutually exclusive. Right? We cannot be in the authorities here and here if, of course, the TSO carries out any economic activity on the property of the municipality. If the house is rented for events, it is already an economic activity. We thought that social control in municipalities over these phenomena was good enough that it was all so transparent and so important socially that we could take into account the demand to alleviate anti-corruption rules. This was introduced as a result of a public consultation. This was repeatedly raised by the CEOs of the TSOs. The Joint Committee on Government and Local Government also raised this issue, referring to the change very positively.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Stanisław Gogacz again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal, this is my first time. Once again, that would be... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: In this sense, Mr Senator, you asked the Senator of the rapporteur a question.]] Minister, I have the following question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 16 is defined as a rescue benefit. Well, the rescue allowance is PLN 200 and is granted on condition that... it's about 20 and 25 years, sixty and sixty-five years of age, etc. In the following article, in the article. 17 there is also the said institution for rescue benefits. Tell me, is this the same emergency service? 'Cause if it's in the article. 16 are referred to as conditions, as is the case in Article. 17 are said to admit the district chief And that's what I agree with. And in the same sentence, the words "and" set its height. Please tell me: are there rescue benefits of different amounts? Because as far as I'm concerned, it's just about the same rescue benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u130	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u131	That's a good question, Mr. Senator, because the Sejm legislators didn't see it, the Senaccy legislators didn't see it... It seems that it should be understood that His Majesty... We have 200 zlotys plus indexing of this, which is annual valorization. So he determines when he gets the right to benefit, whether it's 200 zlotys or what it's going to be like. for the year Already 218 zł or 230 zł. That's how he determines. But there is one benefit of PLN 200, subject to valorization, just as they are subject to pension valorization, i.e., if I remember correctly, this is inflation plus 1%. Exactly the same way it's valorized. This is how it is understood in the Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the question also concerns the article. 16, which speaks of a rescue witness. There are certain requirements. And if we're using the term "completed" or "started," then it's clear. That's the way it is. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by Who can participate in rescue operations: a firefighter who is 18 years old and not 65 years old. And there's this weird record in your mouth. 2 in point 2, concerning who is entitled to the rescue:... and there is a different age in the case of men and women, but the record is 65. year of age, clearly number of orders. This is a short question: did he reach the age of sixty-five, or did he end the age of sixty-five? It's not obvious to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u134	My guess is he ended up 65 years old. That's how I understand it. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u135	Good. Minister, I'm leaving you with this uncertainty. And the other thing, I think it's more serious. Namely, the Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2022. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Yes.]] You agreed to the amendments. They must go to the Seym. Will we be able to announce this by January 1, 2022?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u136	I will say this: the most important thing, Mr. Senator, is that this pension benefit for firefighters should be granted and charged from 1 January. We have nine months to start paying them off, prepare the system, sort out the applications, start paying them off, create the whole system. We are already preparing, both the fire department and the pension facility. who made some preparations, including IT, so that such a benefit could be accepted... as if assuming that the bill would be adopted. The most important thing is that the effect of this benefit is from January 1st. We want those benefits that we start paying after 2, 3, 4, maybe 5 months, no later than after 9, to be charged from January 1st. And that's probably the most important thing in this bill. Because if the other rules come into force later, two weeks, three weeks... I have the President's declaration that he will sign this bill because it was the pension benefits that were on his election program, so there will be no doubt here. We've already talked to the president about this. I hope he doesn't find any shortcomings in the bill that will block it. I hope that we will be able to do this at this next session of the Sejm, but even if we did not, if we accepted it in January, it is important that pension benefits be calculated from 1 January.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u137	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the senators' questions for the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask the President of the Association of Volunteer Guards of the Republic of Poland, Mr Waldemar Pawlak, if he would like to speak on the bill under consideration. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u138	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! On behalf of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters, I would like to thank the High Senate first of all for having adopted last year's witness law for volunteer firefighters. This bill, which was adopted last year, was also an impulse to start government work. There were three projects, and now we have a bill under review. In its essential part, which is new, it refers to these additional benefits for volunteer firefighters in such a common language. Retirement allowances. This is the good part of the project and I think that here... the High Senate Government Commission and the Legislative Bureau have identified some of the necessary amendments. It seems that this bill can still be improved a little bit. On the other hand, with regard to regulations that concern issues of pragmatics and fire protection, we proposed from the union that the Fire Protection Act should be modernised. The government has adopted a slightly different concept and we have a law on voluntary firefighters, which in the Seym, as the Minister mentioned, was adopted practically unanimously. Already during the work of the Senate Committee, some necessary additions were noted and it seems to me that the High Senate can improve this law in these areas so that it is very precise in terms of supporting voluntary firefighters. I would like to thank the High Senate once again for the initiative he took last year because it allowed us to initiate work on the bill that the Senate is now considering. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u139	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the President of the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, Mr Waldemar Pawlak, related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u140	Mr President, I would like to ask if the volunteer firefighters at this extremely dramatic time of fighting the pandemic have also been involved, e.g. in the National Vaccination Program. Did the State actively support measures aimed at reducing the negative consequences of the Coronavirus pandemic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u141	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u142	Yes, sir, Senator. Volunteer firefighters have been involved in a number of activities, starting with helping people who needed this help during a pandemic, such as helping to supply food, medicine, and taking part in the process... When vaccinations were started, firefighters helped many people to reach vaccination centres, especially the elderly in need of such help. It should also be stressed that voluntary firefighters have received support from the government, the Material Reserve Agency, in the form of a significant amount of personal protection measures that have helped to carry out this task safely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[President of the General Board of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland Waldemar Pawlak: Thank you, Mrs Marshal, thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! The bridesmaids and bridesmaids of both volunteer firefighters and their president, as well as the State Firefighter! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank you very warmly here. In a special way today, of course, we thank the bridesmaids and bridesmaids for your daily wonderful service, not professional, but social activity. You're where people need you. It was not by chance that I asked President Waldemar Pawlak whether the volunteer firefighters limited their tasks to rescue and fire operations only. No. You're everywhere where we collide with the most difficult problems, whether they're rescue, fire or road, or disaster-related, or # Just like now # With an epidemic disaster. At this point I would like to thank you very warmly for this activity, which is a unique phenomenon in Poland. [[Applause]] The truth is that volunteer firefighters complement the system of professional firefighters. One can say that the Polish rescue system in this area is one of the best, of the best. But he wouldn't have been, if he hadn't been able to complete the actions of those who are professionally involved in fire protection, volunteer activities, the system of operation of fire-fighting systems, volunteer firefighters. 15 thousand 785 draws in Poland This illustrates the incredible involvement of hundreds of thousands of bridesmaids and bridesmaids who complement this state system. This wonderful story began in 1864, or 157 years ago when the first volunteer fire brigade was formed. You were everywhere, Polish history intertwined, often in a tragic way, with the activities of voluntary firefighters. When we look at these historical events, we do not forget the participation of volunteer firefighters in all independence breaks, also in those events related to the 1905 revolution in the area close to me, under the firehouse in Turku, where, as we know, the Russian army of assassins began shooting at protestors, and among the victims was among others. A local firefighter. We remember all this, because for more than 150 years you have been creating not only a rescue and fire protection system, but you are creating Polish history. And it turns out that you are able to open up to new challenges, take actions that will ensure the functioning of the TSOs in the future. For me, such a unique phenomenon, the phenomenon is the initiative of youth fire teams at CSR. They constitute the future staff facilities for individuals, on the one hand they form an integral part of the individual, but on the other hand they group these young people together and provide the future of the unit. We know that today social activity in many places is disappearing or is limited, this is the modern world. TSOs have found a way to reach out to young people who are interested in learning how fire protection works, while at the same time developing in the youngest the sense of responsibility, discipline, the desire to improve physical fitness, e.g. by participating in sports and fire competitions. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your commitment to cultural, educational and sporting activities. There's a long way to go. And, as the Minister said just now, I am firmly convinced that we are about to adopt this law, which is a symbolic thank-you for your commitment, effort and, let's not forget, also for the risk, because a volunteer firefighter risks his life and health, taking part, for example. in rescue and fire-fighting operations. We'll always remember that. Thank you very much for that. Like President Pawlak said, we want this bill to be even better. Senator Richard Bober and I are reporting a group of amendments to this bill. These are amendments that allow for, among others, to cover the youth rescue teams I was just talking about. They shall also regulate the length of time for the acquisition of pension allowances. We think this time might be a little shorter. I'll answer the Minister here, too. I do not know the details of the Parliamentary Law on OSR, but the Senate project had perfectly prepared OSR and calculations. I am glad that, as President Pawlak said, he was probably also an initiative that led to the government project, because all these initiatives showed that this problem must be resolved, that the Polish state cannot be petty, that in a symbolic way, because we are not talking about big money, we must thank those who are putting their lives and health at risk in order to save others. That's why, like everyone else, I hope in this room. I fully support the adoption of this proposal. I firmly believe that we can complement it to a small extent or improve it in such a way that it will respond even better, more fully, more effectively to those expectations that are related to the functioning of the TSOs. And once again, to conclude my speech, I will say briefly: thank you to all the bridesmaids and bridesmaids, to the volunteers from the Polish TSOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The law that we are dealing with today, the law on voluntary firefighters, is indeed an opportunity to do so. What the predecessor Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about here To talk a little bit and talk about volunteer firefighters. Mr. Senator started by thanking them, and I would also like to agree with them and also to thank all the voluntary firefighters working in the country and carrying out their tasks. Because, as we talked about in the Senate debate on the Senate project, voluntary firefighters are like family silver, this is something we should remember about, so we should, of course, work as far as possible, so that regulations regarding the functioning of voluntary firefighters are good. We should mention this too, because we remember that this year we are celebrating the century of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards and the appointment of his first president, Bolesław Chomicz, who has the motto: God for glory, people for good. Under this slogan, firefighters, not only volunteer but also state firefighters, then, 100 years ago, carried out their tasks. The union arose after regaining independence, of course firefighters, firefighters were working definitely earlier, as mentioned here by Senator Kwiatkowski, but the union was formed just 100 years ago and this year we celebrated his century. It must be said that, especially in rural areas, the voluntary fire department, alongside the rural hostels' circles, is simply an organization that stimulates the local community to act, and it is necessary to do everything to simply support the operation of this guard. As far as this bill is concerned, we must definitely say that this is a rescue service that we are talking about here... In fact, as we talk in the field, firefighters don't call it a rescue service, just like it is in the bill, it's a retirement allowance. And then the firefighters take it positively, I'd say it's actually very positive. And that's the issue firefighters are waiting for. There is, of course, a matter of height, etc., but these are already technical issues that we will probably still be discussing, as my predecessor mentioned here, at the committee meeting. This law also regulates a very important issue, which should be mentioned, which raised doubts about the drivers of TSOs. So far, when the driver turned 65, he couldn't ride in volunteer firefighters anymore. Right now. After the tests, of course, after meeting the additional requirements, i.e. he must be healthy, he must undergo medical examinations, etc., etc. It is possible for those firefighters who are drivers over the age of sixty-five to continue their duties. There is another very important matter in this bill that we have not mentioned here. This was not mentioned in the report because it was not the subject of a committee meeting and it did not appear in the discussion. It's about allowing the mobs, the mayors, the presidents, as well as the seniors and marshals to sit on voluntary fire departments. This issue was not so clear, because the previous regulations of the law regulate even as part of the voluntary fire department in which the economic activity is carried out were such that the governor could not be a member of the governing board of the voluntary fire department, including the one that carried out the economic activity, and it is known that the guard is carrying out an economic activity on municipal property, because he was threatened with being deprived of his mandate. Previously, a lot of wójts served as municipal presidents, and I'm telling you in a nutshell. Presidents of the board of municipal departments or starosts served as presidents of the board of directors of district branches. Then it started as if... There were serious doubts, and at some point the gentry ceased to be directly involved in union activities. This bill restores what was before, which is as if it were obvious. So local government officials, people of public confidence elected in direct elections, but also in indirect elections, because also old people, such functions will be able to perform without fear that someone may try to extinguish their mandate. So that these are also very good solutions, which are included in this law. I remain convinced that once the vote is reached, there will be no doubt here and the High House will adopt this law. I hope she accepts it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister... Gentlemen of Ministers, actually! Mr. Nadbrigader! Gentlemen of the Central Command! Mr. President! Here I address Prime Minister Pawlak. Members of the Board! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a big day, after all, despite all the discussions and some of the disputes that have arisen. It is a great day for a very simple reason. For as long as I can remember, the postulate for the retirement allowance for those bridesmaids and bridesmaids, firefighters who have a documented long-term internship, was a postulate that appeared from election elections. He was raised. I myself remember various election campaigns, especially in environments where voluntary firefighters are particularly important, I think of the rural, small-town environment. And in such communities this call was particularly alive, because service in the voluntary fire department is most often a tradition passed on from the grandfather of the great-grandfather. Senator Kwiatkowski talked about the 157-year history of voluntary firefighters. I recently attended a moving celebration of the 25th anniversary of the fire department in Mława. These round anniversaries are now frequent in my constituency, which is the northern Mazovia, the Ciechanian subregion, is heard about 90, 100, 110 years. It was at about that moment that the excavation of these volunteer firefighters appeared. Interestingly, this occurred at the beginning of our independence, after Poland regained independence. Well, those who serve their communities, those who want to protect the lives and property of their residents, their families and their communities, are necessarily also open to patriotic values, cultural values that are connected with all of this. The role of voluntary firefighters in local communities cannot be overestimated. I'm very happy for you because these cultural functions are for me. Not only as a member of the fire team, but also as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media It's extremely important. They are of great importance for the integration of social environments. Please note that no one can imagine religious, patriotic, state or local celebrations, without the participation of a windy fire orchestra. It is in Ciechanów that a regular review of the fire orchestras is organised and I will tell you that it is highly appreciated among the inhabitants who simply have a special sentiment for the fire orchestras. So that it is actually a phenomenon of this environment. What's more, you can say that this is the strongest uniform structure It doesn't want to use the word "militarized" which remains in a certain system of subordinates, the service dependency that exists in Poland. Maybe you're the president. Pawlak will fix me, but I think about 700,000 firefighters are in Poland. In Mazowsze there are probably 120 thousand of them, this is this row of greatness. In the Ciechanov district, with 90,000 inhabitants, there are over 1,200 firefighters. This shows how important firefighters are in the community. And from this point of view, it is clear that this postulate, which I myself preached in the election campaign, which I myself supported... Mr. Wąsik and I had an opportunity together with Mr. Wąsik present in the room. Because we are from one electoral district, and I am glad to finally, after many years, that we are able to bring the matter to the finals. I will remind you that this is actually the third such legislative proposal. Chronologically speaking, let me first remind you of the 2017 social initiative signed by 250 000 citizens, which also raised these issues. The first reading took place in the Seym of the previous term of office. Since there is no discount here, theoretically this project is still included in the list of seym works, although it was no longer procedated. During this term, we in the Legislative Committee have adopted a proposal that has been supported in this House by both opposition senators who, as you know, have a majority in the Senate and by the vast majority of the Senators of Law and Justice. As I recall, this project was adopted almost unanimously, and then it went to the Sejm. And finally, it's a government presentation that coincides with those projects, introduces new elements, changes them a little bit. I personally got used to thinking about this 20 PLN for each year of documented service, because there are firefighters who can identify themselves with 40- or 45-year internship until they reach retirement age. Theoretically, it could be 47 years old, because if he started when he was 18 and we're up to 65, he could be 47 years old. That's what happened. And 47 times 20 zlotys is a different amount than 200 zlotys, you know. Of course, not everyone has it documented, not everyone can present such documents. So I hold Minister Wąsik's word that at the moment when the government already has... when this bill is implemented, the government will kindly lean on this request to take account of this diversity in this experience when it comes to the internship of a firefighter's friend. Finally, the second point that I think is important, I am merely signalling it, was the issue that we were discussing during our deliberations, it is the question of finding the optimal mechanism for paying out the financial equivalent in the situation of the bridesmaid and the firefighter's friend who are going to the action. The employer is obliged to release them from work for that time, but he is not obliged to pay them a financial equivalent. It seems to me that, with the cooperation of the government, voluntary firefighters and other environments, we should think about trying to solve this problem effectively during this term of office. I don't want to prejudge what is the best mechanism here, because everyone has their pros and cons, but undoubtedly such a mechanism would be very useful. It would be good if he didn't alienate his employer from hiring a friend. The employer might ask: buddy, are you in volunteer guard? Yeah, well, then they're gonna call you and, first of all, you're not gonna be there, second of all, I'm gonna have to pay some costs. Well, the employer... It'll be counterproductive. So we could use this mechanism, of course with some support from the State Treasury and funding from the budget of this type of task, especially since voluntary firefighters are extremely important complementing the national rescue and fire extinguisher system. If there were no voluntary firefighters, this network based on the State Firefighter, which counts here, would probably be able to clarify about 30,000 firefighters, would not be able to cover the entire area of the Republic of Poland and in a manner appropriate to respond to random, crisis, accidents, disasters and all those unfortunate events with which both the professional firefighters and the volunteers come to face. So that I would like to express optimism from this tribune because of the fact that finally the bill is. I know that there will be amendments to it, I know that there will certainly be a discussion in the committees about these amendments, and therefore this law will probably return to the Sejm. But I hope that the final fruit, that is, the 200 zlotys that are already there, is I'll tell you what. He's here. And if anything changes in this area... Well, that's hard to predict right now. So once again, I am happy and satisfied, because our projects, including the draft of the Legislative Commission, have certainly been an important impulse to finally regulate this issue widely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. President! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this is a project that will be supported by all sides of the political scene, because this is a bill for which the firefighters have been waiting for years and their proposals, even in this civil project that has entered the Sejm in the previous term, have been presented. The Polish model is really good for showing up and bragging in Europe. I know that neighbouring countries, that Lithuanians, Ukrainians are trying to directly, 1:1, copy a system that is built in Poland, based on the actions of volunteers, people who sacrifice their health, and sometimes life to help others, to save someone's assets and possessions. And glory really to all governments that for years they saw the need to support voluntary firefighters, because this is one of the cheapest systems to help others. If we didn't have volunteers and if we wanted to base such assistance only on the State Fire Service, then the expenses would be significantly, significantly higher. Therefore, to be honest, the discussion about whether in the OSR we assessed whether the amount of the net or whatever... If we were trying to transfer it to such a dimension only commercial, purely commercial, this OSR would have to be filled... it would have to talk about billions of zlotys, not millions. And it is worth remembering that every time we try to bring the matter of helping others only and only to the level of money. Like I said, all the governments over the years... Personally, I am satisfied that many years ago, as Minister, I participated in signing the agreement between the National Environmental Fund and the State Fire Department, then also the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, to finance tasks related to the state and voluntary firefight. I am pleased, Minister, that this programme is still being implemented today, that you have not abolished this programme. And this was a program launched during the Civil Platform government. I am just as happy that the money that has been saved in the new EU perspective, the one that is being implemented, to finance the tasks of both professional and voluntary firefighters... It was created in the times of the Platform's government and today it is effectively implemented, and thanks to it both the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department are equipped with such necessary, so necessary equipment. Sacrificing people, engaging people is one thing, but these people need really good equipment and good equipment. Someone's gonna say better is the enemy of good. Yeah, but we're still at the parliamentary square. I am also aware of the importance of voluntary firefighters especially in small towns. Senator Jackowski left, but before that he asked about this area, about the involvement of firefighters in cultural and cultural activities. There's a problem here. There is a problem here, because according to the provisions that are currently in the bill, voluntary firefighters can engage in activities related to the protection of life, health, property or the environment. If we narrow it down so much, and we don't see things that... And there may be individuals that, for example, They run a youth fire orchestra and nothing more. Therefore, in fact, this type of team can operate as part of a voluntary firefighter. I could point out a few other examples and proposals for amendments, which I will make in a moment, I will present to you a marshal, but this is one of them. I'd like it to be in particular... I'd like to open this directory, not close it. I assume, Minister, that there will be no dispute between us in this matter, because we all care that we... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, we all want this kind of ability to act. It's not against anyone, it's kind of opening up and supporting this project that's been handed over. Case number two, it's a bit of a life thing. There are different local authorities, there are different local authorities, sometimes the local government does not like the head of some voluntary fire department, there is a dispute about something. Sometimes that's what happens. These aren't special cases, I'll tell you right away, because these disputes appear in different places. Therefore, imposing such an obligation that here must be signed an agreement between the municipality and the voluntary fire department unit, is, politely, to say, as if by legal overregulation, and this does not lead to anything good. Where there are these conflicts, sometimes disputes arising from competing for the position of the governor, nothing unusual, but such things also happen to introduce it into the law and impose this statutory obligation will actually cause or deepen this conflict. We're not gonna solve anything, we're just gonna cause a bigger conflict. We're gonna make this unit's operation difficult because she might not be able to sign it, because the conditions proposed by the local governor will be unacceptable. Why? I'm asking you, why put such records in the bill? I could still discuss these other amendments, but in order not to prolong extremely time... Miss Marshal, 10 corrections. They really clarify, give the opportunity for volunteers in Poland to be able to function and act more easily and to actually, just as it already happened today from this speaker, God for glory, people for the rescue... And so that we remember that these people are really sacrificing their lives, their health, helping others. And let us create the conditions for them to act as best as possible, without discussing whether it is better or worse described in the OSR, and without discussing whether something is interpreted. If there's doubt, let's make sure that there's no doubt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u151	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! General! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a volunteer firefighter's bill. Volunteer firefighters, the largest social organization, bringing together, as has already been said, about 700,000 Poles and Poles, people who are extremely sacrificial, who want to work for the safety of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, 16,000 250 volunteer firefighters, of which more than 4,000 300 are included in the National Rescue and Firefighting System. We know very well that voluntary firefighters are not only rescuers, they are not only fire protection, they are also flood protection, medical, chemical, technical, ecological rescue. There's a long way to go here. But voluntary firefighters are also cultural activities that activate local communities that integrate local communities, which are typical of social organizations. And since there are so many of these organizations that, in fact, mostly, in a large part of small towns, smaller and larger towns in municipalities, these organizations function, hence their activities... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Could I have some peace? There you go.]] Therefore, their activity is so wide, it is so important and it is so, Ladies and Gentlemen, visible. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on voluntary firefighters is a new quality. My previous speakers were talking about the fact that for many years there have been ideas to appreciate firefighters, to create such a specially designed law for them, for voluntary firefighters, that volunteer firefighters should work not only on the basis of the Association Act or on fire protection, but also on their own law that concerns their activities. It was also mentioned here by you many times, that also the pension allowance, the rescue benefit which appears in this bill, in the amount of PLN 200, as the Minister said, which will be valued... This has also been mentioned for many years. I myself perfectly remember that this idea appeared quite often in such a public discussion. After all, it is known that firemen, bridesmaids, bridesmaids perform their service selflessly, selflessly. Those who spend the longest should have some compensation should have some supplement to their pension. Especially since what the Minister said and what is extremely important Many bridesmaids and many bridesmaids who work in voluntary firefighters are farmers. Later their pensions are one of the lower ones, because they are KRUS pensions. So this supplement is very important to them. But not just as a financial add-on, I think it's also as a commitment... to show them how important they are to us. And some such compensation for their many years of service. Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit about volunteer firefighters in numbers. I mentioned the number of units, that 700 thousand bridesmaids and bridesmaids are active in Poland, of which 66 thousand are women. Of course, not everyone is trained and can take part in rescue and fire operations, but 230 thousand bridesmaids and bridesmaids in these rescue and fire-fighting operations are taking part. Well, considering we've got a "maybe I'm wrong," if I'm wrong, the Minister's gonna correct me. 30,000 professional firefighters... I'm not wrong, Mr. Minister nodding his head. So, ladies and gentlemen... Of course, the State Fire Department is fully professional, absolutely prepared to help Poles and Poles in any situation. But for us to feel safe, voluntary firefighters are needed. The saturation of these units is high. It is very often the case that in the powiats access to the State Fire Department when you have to reach several dozen kilometers, 20 or 30 km, well, it takes a while. Volunteer firefighters shall appear immediately as soon as they receive such a signal. Junior fire teams. 84,000 young people who, like older ones, often their parents, grandparents, neighbors, already want to serve in voluntary firefighters. 755 firemen's brass orchestras are also of great cultural value. There are 20,000 musicians in these orchestras. Volunteer firefighters also run 1,600 halls of tradition. Let us also see, Ladies and gentlemen, what is the cultural value, what is the value for local communities. Such chambers of tradition show the past, build an identity, influence the integration of locals. Of course, voluntary firefighters also carry out chronicles, which also testify to history, the richness of their activities. So much could be said about volunteer firefighters. I have been working with volunteer firefighters for years, very intensively, on my territory, in my constituency, Hungary, Minsk and Garwoliński. But not only in neighboring counties. I really appreciate this cooperation. And, of course, for the great sacrifice of all the gentlemen and ladies who serve in voluntary firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids, thank you very, very much. Like I said, I observe your commitment every day, I observe your dedication. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to say that in addition to this law on voluntary firefighters, which presents specifics to volunteers, there is not only this rescue service, but there is also increased legal protection for firefighters, there is also regulation of compensation for firefighters in the event of injury to health or, God forbid, in the event of death. There is also the Holy Cross of Florian, which these most well-deserved volunteers will be able to receive from the President, or the Badge of Saint Florian for the merits of the Local Community granted by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. There is also a volunteer firefighter's card that will allow for various reliefs. So these are concrete solutions. I would also like to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to what has been going on around voluntary firefighters in recent years. I think that in recent years the modernization bill has been a great blessing for volunteer firefighters. We will probably talk about the Modernization Act in the next items of the agenda, because the new Modernization Act is included in this agenda, but I would like to mention the Modernization Act for the years 2017 new cars for voluntary firefighters, funding for the purchase of new cars, these are funds for the purchase of equipment, these are funds for training, these are also funds for the purchase of specialized clothing for action, including uniforms. This modernisation bill, thanks to the fact that it included measures and actions for 4 years, gave us a chance to develop and I think that we will also talk about this further in the next point. There are also, ladies and gentlemen, subsidies for voluntary firefighters within the voivodship environmental fund, within the national environmental fund, within the KRUS contribution fund, within the Orlen Foundation. There are many sources of funding, and over the last few years, volunteers have actually been able to buy equipment, and they could also get new cars, and we know that these needs, as far as cars are concerned, are very large. In many cases, volunteer firefighters, who are in the National Rescue and Fire Safety System, had 40-year-old or older cars. [[Timer signal]] The year 2020 - purchase of 515 new cars for TSOs, 2021 - 314 cars for voluntary firefighters. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Just one more minute, Mrs. Marshal. Quality change. I would like to thank Minister Maciej Wąsik very warmly, because I know that he was personally involved in the creation of this law on voluntary firefighters. Many have spoken of this before you, and you have done so, Minister, thank you very much for that. Through you, I thank the Polish Government that it found the means to do so, that it leaned on the fact that there was political will to lean on the matter and implement it, not to leave it in a declarative, verbal version. I would also like to thank you very warmly for your cooperation with the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service, the General, as well as the Chiefs of the Voivodship. I thank you already at this point, Minister, for the modernisation bill, because, as I said, these were concrete measures, concrete measures that allowed them to develop. Of course, thank you also to the volunteers, once again with all my heart, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Aleksander Szwed, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Świlski, Wiktor Durlak, Senator Błaszczyk, Senator Błachrz, Senator Luczak, Senator Gromko, Senator Mątów, Senator Łyczak and Senator Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches in the discussion to the minutes. The Senators Durlak and Komorowski also submitted legislative proposals. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, Senator Bury, Senator Kwiatkowski and Senator Bober also submitted such requests. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much to the guests. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be in charge until 4:00 p.m. During the break, I invite you to the senate gardens from the side of the park, where we will celebrate the memory of Poles and Poles, victims of the pandemic of Coronavirus. Together, we will pay tribute to them in amazement and concentration, lighting candles. I encourage you and the senators to attend this ceremony. The entrance to the Senate gardens will be made available through room 179 on the ground floor of the Senate building. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 36 to 16 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u154	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2022. The text of the Act is contained in print No 570 and the report of the Commission In print No 570 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee. Oh, the senator's already in the podium... [[I'm ready now.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the resolution adopted by the Sejm on 17 November this year. The Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2022. The Senate Marshal passed the bill on 18 November... [[Cell phone signal]] It's not me. I'm off. ...to our committee, and our committee, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, considered the provisions of this law on 9 December 2021. The result of our committee's work is a proposal for the High House to adopt the law, but it introduced 19 amendments to it earlier. These are amendments which are the result of the doubt of the members of the committee on matters relating to the provisions of this Act. The Around Budget Act is a law that has appeared for many years about one month before the adoption of the State budget for the next year. It is a law whether these are laws that have certain things to order, properly prepare the provisions of other laws, so that the rules can be properly implemented, good in fulfilling the provisions of the budget law. This Act, which is the Around Budget Act for 2022, introduced the following amendments. I will discuss the most important ones in order to make it easier for us to discuss later the doubts raised during the committee work. The Act under consideration proposes the following changes: fixing in 2022 the remuneration of judges, prosecutors and other employees whose remuneration is related to their remuneration, in respect of the average remuneration in the second quarter of 2020 according to data published by the Central Statistical Office; fixing social fund write-offs based on values from 2019, thus providing for the unfreeze of the basis for the calculation of these funds in relation to the regulation of 2021; the write-down to the Social Benefits Company Further: freeze the base for the calculation of the write-down to the Social Fund for pensioners receiving pension benefits from uniformed services, preventing increases in government expenditure, at the level of pension expenditure set out in the 2019 budget law; introduce a financing mechanism for selected higher education and science entities which have the greatest impact on the quality of research conducted in Poland and their importance for spending R &amp; D funds; introduce an additional financing mechanism for the Medical Research Agency and the National Health Fund. In 2022, a number of regulations will enter into force aimed at increasing funding sources for tasks related to state computerisation. A regulation is then introduced to determine the source of the costs related to the operations on the treasury securities transferred to the Reprivatisation Fund. The Act also introduces simplified procedures for public funding of medicines for persons after seventy-five years of age. The Act, which is being discussed, amends 12 laws next year, which are relevant from the state's point of view. The tasks set out in those laws shall be financed by the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, now the doubts we have raised during the work on the around budget bill. Unfortunately, in most cases they are similar to the doubts we had in previous years. The biggest problem we think is... This is what we talked about yesterday at a special committee meeting on the conditions of transparency, clarity and legibility of the budget. I am talking about the fact that, unfortunately, a large part of the funding is still being taken beyond the state budget. There is no proper parliamentary control here, especially at the level of the Sejm, especially at the level of the Sejm Committee on Public Finance. We are making some amendments, which are in this compilation, the amendments I was talking about. As Senate, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we do not propose extending the powers of the Senate to have a greater impact on budget formation, greater control over budget implementation, but we are talking about the need to respect the Public Finance Act in so far as it concerns the Sejm's role in public finances. The Committee on Public Finance has a particularly important role to play in this matter, and we see clearly that these activities are being limited, including in this law. The point that we are paying attention to, which we are particularly serious about, is that once again there will be resources... They are spoken of by this bill around the budget. There will be funds coming from the issuance of treasury securities. This time, in the budget for 2022, it will amount to PLN 5.5 billion. I would like to say that we have no doubt about the purpose for which these funds are allocated. We are merely paying attention to the way this money is created, which is de facto non-budget money. It is proposed that 0.5 billion of these funds, out of PLN 5.5 billion, should be transferred, among others. for higher education, for the creation of new medical courses at several universities in Poland. And these universities are listed by name and location. We believe that this is a bad solution, that you should not enter the name of the university in which the medical course will be started in the law. We do not deny the need to run these directions, they are certainly needed, should be launched, but the general principle is that all universities In particular public, but also private, which are ready for this, which are able to run such directions, should be able to apply for these measures. And that only applies to the three universities listed in the law. Of course, in response to our doubts, to the criticism of this law, the minister refers to the fact that in the past there have already been laws that have been said e.g. about the university im. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, Jagiellonian University. These universities had their own special laws, but they were a little different cases. Although many senators also criticized these solutions. So we in our amendment propose to delete the names of universities and identify all universities. The Minister, following clear and clear principles, will grant these funds to schools that meet certain conditions. By the way, we think that it is appropriate to inspire such activities so that these medical courses are run in those academic centres where there are no more such universities. In this way, it would lead to the creation of new academic centres of medical importance, etc. It would be such a creative element of the city, creating such a course of study at existing universities and also giving young people the opportunity to study medicine in such places, in regions where there are no such universities. Of course, it must always be science at the highest level, conducted in an appropriate and proper manner. Money from the issue of securities is also intended for the National Environmental and Water Management Fund. I'm not gonna do all this. Here he discussed in detail, it's in the bill. There was also such a request from fellow senators to be brief, but the around budget laws, the budget bill, however, are the most important laws which the Sejm or Senate adopt during the year, so we have to devote some time to them, there is no way out. I think the marshal understands my belief that budget issues, finances are things that we in the Senate should spend more time on than standard. Thus, in total, the various expenditures which are financed through the issuance of securities represent an amount, as I said earlier, of PLN 5.5 billion. Unfortunately, we believe that this is a specific circumvention of the various provisions of the Public Finance Act. These measures and probably that's why this procedure is being implemented. They do not increase the deficit of the state budget and therefore do not have to be taken into account in the calculation of the expenditure rule, but in fact increase the deficit, because in the future these measures will have to be repaid somehow. I also noted the issue of free medicines for those aged seventy - five. According to the Act, these medicines should be financed from the State budget, while the Act proposes that they be financed from the National Health Fund. It seems that this is the wrong solution, that it can It does not have to, unless different transfers are made in this case, lead to a reduction in the resources of the National Health Fund for other purposes financed by the Fund. Moreover, in the statement of reasons, the Minister points out that the funds saved in this way in the budget will be used to cover the increase in the costs of medical rescue teams. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum indicates that this will allow for the transfer of grants for guaranteed benefits from the budget. So it's so frivolously translated, and these are the things that, in our opinion, should be kept in a simple, clear way in the budget. We, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, are convinced that the budget should be full, i.e. should cover all expenditure, even if it were to show... it should show what is the actual budget deficit, because it is always better when finances are transparent. And this is our most serious charge with the Around Budget Act, which has been raised for several years now, that the role of Parliament, mainly the Sejm, in shaping public expenditure and therefore also in controlling the funds that are being spent from the state budget, is constantly decreasing. Here are the proposed provisions which we negate and introduce special, separate amendments on this issue. They assume there's... there's a lot of records. I'm going to mention some of the special ones that raised our doubts. Oh, one more thing. In the Public Finance Act, the general principle is that the reserves in the State budget are liquidated, converted, combined and created with the participation of the Public Finance Commission. In the Around Budget Act for 2020, this participation of the Public Finance Commission in this area is eliminated, eliminated, and justified by the fact that there is a pandemic, that the situation is extraordinary, etc. The situation is never obvious, simple, etc., there can always be emergency situations. Therefore, the budget should be shaped in such a way that it provides for situations that may require specific action. The Prime Minister may, for example, order the Finance Minister to set up a new provision for the prevention and eradication of natural disasters from the blocked amounts of expenditure in the budget and to carry out the tasks of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. Also in this case, the application of the provisions on the need to obtain a positive opinion of the Committee on Public Finance is suspended. It seems to me that such records mean a lack of confidence in Parliament in its entirety and in the Committee on Public Finance in a special way. The records we propose to eliminate also concern the budget of the President's Office and the President's Office of the Council of Ministers. Of course, at this stage, because this is not yet a discussion about the size of the budget and the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, and the Chancellery of the President, there are our doubts about how to create the budget and spend money from this budget. Because it is said that the head of the President's Chancellery will be able to move funds between the budget departments, leaving aside the role of parliament, the Public Finance Commission. I don't think there's an emergency here. The President's Chancellery's budget isn't a budget shaped for wartime, it's not what it is, it's for normal operation. If it is not possible to predict in the President's Office how much money should be spent on the renovation of monuments, because that is the purpose of this change, it cannot be planned in advance annually, that means that this firm is poorly functioning so as not to use any more critical wording in this matter. So we believe that also the President's Office and the Prime Minister's Office should be governed by the principle of rational, good planning, anticipation of such or other actions, e.g. renovations, other works which are not ad hoc due to the fact that a fire has been fired or other situations have occurred, but even in relation to such events should be introduced in the relevant part of the budget, such records as give an opportunity to normalise these situations. We see a similar problem, as I said, in the case of the Prime Minister's office and the President's Office. In the case of the part concerning the Minister of National Defence, i.e. Part 29, also in principle, is ignored by Parliament in its final decision on the expenditure to be spent from this part of the budget, and it is possible to move resources between departments in such a way as to carry out tasks in a way that is beneficial to the Minister for National Defence. And in this case, we are also convinced, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, that one should be able to plan, from what part of what amounts, what amounts are allocated to pensions, salaries of soldiers, purchases of new weapons, repairs, etc. It seems that this is a normal planning activity not only in an important and large institution such as the Ministry of National Defence, but in any other institution. Another issue that raises our doubts is that once again, arguing it with a coronavirus, pandemic and other matters, the provision that assumes that there can be no more than 5% in the state budget is suspended. expenditure planned which is of the nature of the special provisions; that is to say, Article. 14 laws. Again, the suspension of this provision, in our view, is important because the budget reserves are such additional expenditure in the event of an emergency, but also those which are subject to parliamentary control... These reserves are expected to be above 5%, 5.7% the planned budget expenditure for 2022 and, at the same time, the principle of parliamentary control is ignored. This question also applies to reserves that are in the voivod's budgets. In the voivod's budgets, this reserve, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, should be 1%. expenditure of the voivodship. Also this principle, this provision resulting from the Public Finance Act is abolished. Our doubts were also raised about amendments to the Land Transport Infrastructure Financing Act. It's an art. 41 laws. This entry concerns the destination of at least 18% the revenue planned for the year from excise duties on fuels for the construction, conversion, renovation of land transport infrastructure financed or co-financed by the Minister responsible for transport. And here we weren't quite clear, either, as to whether this record means that the funds... And that's exactly what we asked Minister Skuza. Does this mean that the amount of resources allocated to road infrastructure construction in 2022 will be less than in previous years or more? There was an explanation for the minister, but it was inconclusive for us. The Minister's general explanation was that in 2021 more resources were spent on road investments than was planned, and therefore in 2022 there would be less basis for spending these funds. It seems to me that... perhaps the Minister will explain this issue more precisely and in detail in his speech here, but the principle of reducing resources for building road infrastructure I'm not saying it's perfect, but it's good. This is not good information for citizens. Every year, there was always a general rule here... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, sir. The usual report, the rapporteur's speech, as well as the minister's speech, should last up to 20 minutes. Since the situation is really important, I understand the importance of around budget laws, I would ask that you do so by half past...]] Okay, I'm on my way to the end. I'm sure I'll be done by half past... I hope so even sooner. I'm flipping notes with my notes to shorten this speech. But it hasn't taken me 20 minutes to make that speech yet... [[How can you not? We started at 4:22 p.m., Mr. Senator, and it's 4:22 p.m.]] But... [[All right. There you go.]] The Act provides for a number of regulations that will allow for the provision of various funds from the state budget, e.g. Police support funds, Border Guard, State Fire Department. You think these records are good. In the end, I'll tell you. And that's actually going to be the last point. ..that our doubts raised a change with regard to the article. 32 and 33 laws which concern the co-financing of the tasks of the Minister for Information Technology, related to the computerization of the State from the CEPiK Fund and the Wideband Fund. This case was raised by us, by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, already last year, because it was then from the CepiK fund... This is a fund that comes from drivers' fees, and according to the law it is intended to finance various IT tasks, in short, communication issues. Plus, last year, there was a record that this fund had to be taken from and used for other purposes related to state computerization. We have drawn attention to the fact that since this fund is large enough that there is no need to use it, it can be eliminated or reduced, i.e. simply reduce contributions from drivers for this purpose to make the case real, because that's how we have a fund set up for a purpose, but by means of a around-budget law, funds are allocated from this fund for another purpose. So much for the CEPiK. The second fund, even more important to us, is the Wideband Fund. These are the means... This fund was set up in 2018. Its aim was to promote broadband access in areas where this is difficult, where it is not profitable to make it available. Because with broadband access in places like Warsaw, Gdansk or other large towns there is no problem, there is a problem in rural areas, small towns, etc. There the operators say: we don't connect you to broadband because it doesn't pay off. And it was wise to set up this Wideband Fund. But now the funds are being taken from this Wideband Fund. They weren't used. And even for my questions about what to do so that this broadband internet can be disseminated in rural areas... Besides, we made an adjustment to the budget last year to spend extra money on it. And now you're getting a lot out of this fund. And at the same time, citizens... And there are citizens, young people. After all, young people are to learn remotely, to use the Internet, to sit at home, to learn, to improve their qualifications. But they in a large part of Poland, in these rural areas, do not have the possibility to use broadband amenities. Everybody's talking. Minister Czarnek and other smart people there. That we learn remotely and we have everything on the Internet. Only that it concerns people in Warsaw, in Gdańsk and in several other cities, but already in rural areas this access is absolutely difficult. And instead of increasing this fund, spreading it, it's limited. That's not what we're authorized to do. In this connection, these dozens of amendments, which do not concern this Wideband Fund, but other issues. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u156	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see... There it is, there it is. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was just on that last case... Well, I understand that both the CEPiK and the Wideband Fund are the essence of computerization... [[Exactly.]] So maybe it is that the CEPiK base has been established and now it is just a question of current replenishment, which does not require so much resources. And this money is needed, I don't know, for a skeletal network, which is in the same department, but for a little bit different functionality. Taking this opportunity to respond flexibly to what I think is a little bit conflicting with the role of the budget. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u158	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u159	Mr. Senator, exactly the charge you described here, but somehow a little different... That's exactly what we're saying. If the CEPiK fund is not needed at this level, it must be limited and recast by this law on the CEPiK fund. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: Internet access, networking or whatever. But it's not that the bill stays, the fund stays, and this fund collects money, and then it changes every year on an ad hoc basis just to get the money out of this fund. If, once again, there's too many of them. Because last year this problem came up and two years ago it came up... If that's the case, because I don't know... the CEPiK operators said no, because we're not ready, we need, and so on. At least that's what they said last year. I don't know that. So be it. But as far as the Wideband Fund is concerned, it is probably such a common feeling that there is a problem with broadband access in rural centres in rural areas. What's more, you said... What did you call this internet network professionally? [[Skeleton.]] Skeleton. He stayed until 2015 and I'm sorry to brag so much about it: to our time It's built in its entirety. And in the following years, it was about to be distributed by different operators and connected to individual households. And this fund was created so that where it is an unprofitable enterprise, it could be supported. It was about projects prepared e.g. By the municipalities, because it has to be done there. And today the Internet, so to speak, passes through the village I have plenty of such examples in my region, e.g. In the municipality of Sierakowice, there are these main lines everywhere, they go through every village, but you can't connect. In the commune of Cewice, in the district of Lęborsk by every village conducted, in the commune of Łeba, in the commune of Nowa Wieś also led, but there is no internet connection. I've written statements on this case many times. The answers are It is known as in the case of claims All the time: we do, we try, we will, everything is in the best order. But it's clear... If I asked the senator what it was like in your district, yours, yours, and so on, it would turn out that, unfortunately, it's all limping. Of course, we have asked the Minister to explain the issue of broadband in more detail. Because broadband Internet is de. In fact, something such as electrification of Poland after the war. Well, that's the truth. Right? Access to broadband internet is access to knowledge, learning opportunities, education etc. Even if all high voltage transmission lines were run throughout Poland, but no electricity could be brought to the household... It wouldn't do any good. That's it. Our will is just to show that it's finally starting to happen. It happens in a lot of places. Even my office has broadband Internet. It's a big block. After big interventions, after all the other things they've done. But this is already a topic for another debate, this is another issue. I'll tell the senator about the scenes in the cockroaches. It was done by the biggest operator. Unable to jump... What's a simple little man supposed to do?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u160	Thank you, Senator. Senator George the Hare... No, Joseph the Hare. I'm sorry, Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have two thoughts I would like to express here. I'll make sure they're expressed in the form of questions. The first case is related to health care. Well, many of the current difficulties in the functioning of health care are the result of or the consequence of the monopolistic operation of medical universities. I've been preaching this for a while, and now I'm taking the opportunity to do it again. It's been everywhere since the COVID case started, there's no doctors in hospitals, there's a huge shortage of nurses, there's been a break in nursing training for several years. It's a good thing she finally responded. I'll say it all takes a really big job and a big change. [[Timer signal]] And now the question is, do we have a chance to break the monopolistic resistance of medical universities?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u162	Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. It's been a minute. There's a device here where it's displayed. The signal's already very pushy. [[It's over.]] Did you ask a question? [[Yes, of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I've noticed this problem. Indeed, in the around budget bill, the problem you are talking about is indicated. The proposal for its solution is precisely that another 2 universities, which will be able to run a medical course, will be located in Warsaw. One will be in another city, also large, where there is also a medical school. I think it's in this case. The majority of committees seem to think so. The Ministry should adopt a different principle. It is known that this is a long-term action, that nothing is created immediately, especially medical school. She won't rise overnight. If a certain philosophy is not accepted, that universities with different profiles may be in smaller academic centres, then we will only deepen the situation in which several centres will dominate. This always leads to the fact that the possibility of education for young people who live outside metropolitan areas will be limited. That's what we're paying attention to. The Senate has talked about this many times on various occasions. I think this rule should apply to us, and that's why it's an amendment. We say that there should be resources for launching new medical courses, and that which universities should go to should result from a higher, wiser thought, which should guide this whole thing. Thanks to such decisions, in fact, many universities have been established in the past. Universities always have a creative element in them. These are places where young people stop and where professors come. That is why we have made such a proposal, we have introduced such an amendment. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u164	Thank you very much. No more questions. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u165	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Together with the draft budget law for 2022, the draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2022 was submitted to the Sejm. In plenary on 17 November, the Sejm passed a law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Law for 2022. It can be said that every year a draft budget law is submitted together with a draft budget law. Within the framework of the adopted measures, the gradual de-freeze of the social benefit fund for the next year, compared to 2021, is to be based on 2019. The basis for determining the basic remuneration of judges and prosecutors was also proposed in 2022. It can be said that, in line with the level of wage increases in the budgetary area, it would be around 4.4% after such settlement. Within the scope of the so-called: chimney settings have been proposed 2 regulations. In relation to the maximum remuneration of persons subject to the provisions of the Act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities, an increase was proposed in relation to the level of 2021. And here we can say that this would be so-called. the old chimney law of 2000 and this would apply more to e.g. the heads of the public sector agencies and, in the case of the remuneration of persons managing certain companies, the regulation in force in the current year, i.e. there, would be frozen at the level of 2016. An important solution of this law is the introduction of the possibility for the Minister of Treasury Finance to transfer securities to public universities within the framework of the "Initiation of Excellence" programme, the Research University, the Medical Research Agency, the National Health Fund, as well as 3 universities, the Warsaw University, the Catholic University of Lublin and Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, to start or conduct medical or dental studies, and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management for air protection tasks, projects for the development of zero-emission transport and support for the transformation of the economy towards climate neutrality. The Act also provides for an additional source of funding for the State's IT tasks from the Wideband Fund and the Central Vehicle and Driver Records Fund. During the seym work, the bill was completed, among others. about regulations such as providing the National Road Fund, completing the liquidation of the Institute of Labour Medicine and Environmental Health in Sosnowiec, as well as supporting educational tasks carried out by local authorities in the field of preschool education. High Senate, I would also like to address the question raised by President Kazimierz Kleina on the financing of land transport infrastructure. The Land Transport Infrastructure Financing Act provides that expenditure relating, generally speaking, to the construction and management of land transport infrastructure shall be fixed at a level of not less than 18%. the revenue from excise duties on motor fuels planned for a given year. And here there has been a significant acceleration of the programme's tasks and spending in 2021. But this isn't about reducing the resources for the program. The programme will be maintained and implemented in its entirety, there are neither quota nor scope limits of the programmes. Well, I can give it on such a simple example that 18 plus 18 is 36, but also 20 plus 16 is 36. And there are no constraints on infrastructure expenditure, just some expenditure has been able to accelerate and implement earlier. No matter what... As regards the issue of the amount, I have here information from the Ministry of Infrastructure that the amount of budgetary resources available to carry out transport tasks in 2022 will be .. on a quota basis.. More than 1.7 billion more than in 2021 Ms Marshal, High Senate, if there were questions about IT tasks, I would suggest giving the floor to Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz from the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Am I to understand that you are now the Minister, or are you just asking questions? Questions... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: I think when questions arise.]] Okay, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[Senator Czerwinski.]] But before that, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz was remotely involved. There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz... Then you are Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, and we will call Senator Tyszkiewicz. Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions related to computerization, to art. 22, 32, 33. But I have a question for the Minister about the article. 39. There is an article that the committee proposes to delete, that is the change in expenditure between the sections of the MON budget. Tell me exactly what this case would be about, and maybe we can calm the committee down and withdraw from this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u168	Dear Marshal! High Senate! The amendment concerns the possibility of moving the expenditure planned in Part 29 between the classification sections of the State budget. We are covered by Treaty obligations to spend a certain percentage of GDP on defence. This is de facto about ensuring some flexibility when moving between works, which, in principle, cannot be done without amending the budget law. However, this is a specific objective, a defensive objective, and the limit that we are to spend is set, you can say, an international agreement. So this is about ensuring such flexibility in the area of national defence. The objective is preserved, i.e. in part 29 of the National Defence. And sometimes in one, because you can even look at it from the point of view of efficiency, in one department there are resources from unenforced tasks regardless of the body supervising the performance of the parts, and in the other there may be something missing. So, yes, such flexibility in terms of national defence is, in the opinion of the designer, justified.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u169	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask if Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz is available. [[Do we hear each other? Do we hear each other now?]] Yes, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have one question. Would you mind referring to the scandalous proposals concerning the regulation of judges' salaries: does this apply to the chimney law you mentioned earlier? I'm asking because the judges' salary... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...which is completely incomprehensible, because it's breaking art. 7, 48 and 91. According to what we have calculated here, the judges will receive a salary increase of PLN 26 next year. How is this in the context of salary increases for Members, Senators, Local Government? Doesn't the judge's environment at this point feel victimized and treated in any special way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u171	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u172	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Well, first of all, I'd like to devalue the 26 PLN raise for judges and prosecutors. As I said, the 26 zlotys resulting from the provisions of the Act are only complementary and the increase in remuneration for judges and prosecutors will be as high as in the state budget sphere, i.e. ca. 4.4%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u173	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u174	Minister, what would be the remuneration of the judges if Art. 8 wasn't in that amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u175	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u176	I don't care, Mr. Senator, maybe I'll find it in my materials... I think it'd be about a dozen percent higher. Unfortunately, I can't... I think I'm about to find one, so... Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, the increase with such a multiplier of the judge of the district court... the around budget bill would set a salary of PLN 10,000 353. The Around Budget Act for the current year frozen salaries to judges and prosecutors, it was a remuneration, with the same multiplier, at the level of PLN 9 000 920 44 gr. The statutory rate would have been if it hadn't been for this article. 8, which you refer to as Senator, 11 thousand 284 PLN 27 gr. So that the increase compared to 2021 is 433 PLN and 4 gr, and the decrease compared to the provisions of the Act minus 930 PLN and 78 gr.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u177	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u178	I would like to ask, Minister, if I understood correctly... The judge's salary was now frozen. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes.]] That height... Delete Article 8 would therefore, I understand, involve both the freezing period and the period during which you envisage an increase for the budgetary sphere. It's over 4%. Am I getting this right? If I didn't make a mistake in this part of my analysis, but please verify... But don't you think... We've already had the Constitutional Court's judgments that freezing the judges' salaries... Well, we've had a situation like this before, probably in 2009, and the Court has been negative about it. However, do you not consider it appropriate and legally safe to delete this article. 8 of this regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u179	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u180	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I answer the first part of the question yes. If it weren't for art. 8, this increase in remuneration would simply include a higher base and an average remuneration which is the basis for calculating the remuneration of judges. It would also fill this gap and catch up, you can say, what was frozen. That's right. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment is concerned, I'm the one working on a bill around the budget... I remember that there was also a judgment which stated that in particular years could be such a situation that these salaries could be frozen. I would like to point out that we are not dealing with freezing, even frostbite and increase by the same rate as the increased salary in the budgetary sphere. It's 4.4%. for judges and prosecutors. In the current year, frozen wages were also available for the budgetary sphere and would be unfrozen in 2022. And here the decision at the level of the Council of Ministers, the determination of the government project was that the judges, and prosecutors, and the budgetary sphere have the same, you might say, growth plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u181	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please... [[Senator Jerzy Czerwinski:How about the answer of the person responsible for computerization?]] That's your question... [[Yeah, yeah.]] Good. [[It's about art. 32, which is...]] Could the Minister please... Yes, sir, you could answer the question from your point of view. Just sit where the microphone is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you remember Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal, I think it's... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Already? Does it work? Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. I understand that this is about the senator's question in the context of the Wideband Fund. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u183	The Commission has proposed that the Article be deleted. 32... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Yes.]] ...and 33. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Okay, I know.]] In my opinion, this is unfavorable in terms of budget implementation. I'd like a few more details. Why should these articles be included in this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u184	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u185	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you for that question. Indeed, these are amendments which, in our opinion, in the opinion of the Government, the Minister for Digitalisation, are unfavourable in the context of the implementation of the budget, because they block the possibility of using these funds included both in the CepiK Fund and in the Wideband Fund for other extremely important tasks related to state computerisation, but also for tasks which arise from current needs related to unplanned situations, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. As for the exemplification of my thesis, I would like to stress, Mrs Marshal, that last year we made similar transfers, just out of these 2 funds. Thanks to this, Dear Senators, High Izbo, we have managed to carry out a number of important actions that I would like to quote here from this place. Of course, I mean, among other things. implementation of the National Education Network, which aims to support the connection to the networks of those schools whose connection, due to their particularly difficult investment location, is subject to particularly high costs. And that's what the funds were being transferred from the Wideband Fund. This was the case with the High Commission, in the context of the Wideband Fund. Well, we don't spend this money on any current purchases, e.g. For the purchase of some cars for the Ministry etc. We have just set them up to support schools, to connect these schools to broadband, even though these costs were very high. We have also committed these measures to the functioning and development of applications that have enabled us to fight the pandemic. The support of the State Sanitary Inspection was also allocated from the Wideband Fund. It was extremely important to us. For this reason, we want to be able to use this money for such activities. However, listening to Senator Kleina... I, of course, understand the senator's opinion, and I agree that these white spots are far too much. Mr. Senator, I'm in a hurry to make a statement. First of all, I will refer to historical facts, briefly of course. I pay attention to time because I heard we had to hurry. Mrs Marshal, from 2016 to today we have connected almost 1 million households in our country, and by 2023 we are planning to connect 2 million households to which we will allocate PLN 4 billion. Within the framework of KPO and other funds we will allocate another PLN 9 billion to cover white spots and provide broadband networks in Polish households. Well, of course, we're going to spend even more money on computerization of schools, for example on access to broadband. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not that we are here taking tens of millions of zlotys from the Wideband Fund. Well, about 50 million zlotys from the Wideband Fund are used to connect DPS, social services houses where the pandemic showed us this. Computerisation, digitalisation is particularly important. Hence such a decision to move these measures there. We are talking about millions, tens of millions of zlotys on this issue. Mr. Senator, we're planning to use another billion zlotys to cover those white spots. This can all be proven by us, including in writing. That is why I would ask the High House not to take these amendments into account. From the budgetary point of view, they really will not help us with these ongoing tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u186	Thank you very much. No more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u187	Dear Marshal! High Senate! After a very extensive speech by President Kazimierz Kleina, I have quite little to add. I would like to say that I fully agree with the opinions made by the President. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few sentences. Mr President, when starting the budget and finance committee meeting on the around budget bill, he said that there are people who believe that the around budget bill might not be at all. And I am one of those people, and I think it would be best if the around-the-budgetary bill were not really there. But I'm a realist, and I know it's unlikely that the budget bill was in the past, it's today, and it's probably gonna be for the next few years. Why do I think she shouldn't be here? There are laws, there are regulations, especially the provisions of the Public Finance Act, and we should follow them. If there are tasks that somehow interfere with these regulations, then let's change these laws for good, not just in accordance with the needs of one year. The Around Budget Act actually has the title: the Law on Specific Solutions which will help implement the Around Budget Act. Special solutions. These specific arrangements are linked to specific cases. I am able to agree that now there is such a special case, the pandemic is certainly such a case, in the past, several years ago such a case certainly was a global crisis. I would agree that perhaps in such cases some annual provisions must be applied which will facilitate the implementation of the budget law, but these are specific cases. I think there are provisions in the around budget bill that shouldn't be there, which wouldn't have to be there. A number of provisions are actually repeated from year to year, which are contained in each around budget law. The question is, does it have to be like this? We always talk about wages here, because it's such a sensitive thing. Today we're discussing the remuneration of judges and court officials, the prosecution's office. I think we'd have to find an algorithm that would clearly tell us when we can freeze our wages in the budget, if we should raise them. It can be linked, I don't know, even with GDP growth. We either freeze these salaries every year, or we raise them by some part, or we release them, that's what happens every year. The second point, which I believe is important, is that there are provisions in the around budget law that would have broken, for example, so far. Public Finance Act. Of course, the provisions of the Around Budget Act as if they were correcting these provisions of the Public Finance Act and a number of other laws, President Kleina said that we are amending 12 laws. In fact, it would be better if we didn't have to do this. Here is an example of allowing the head of the President's office to transfer expenses between departments, and the subject concerns monuments. The question is whether it is so difficult to determine the amount of resources allocated to specific tasks at the President's office. All other entities that perform the same or similar tasks do not have the option. The universities we're discussing here... I am fully in favour of these universities developing, especially with regard to medical faculties, but here there is no clear explanation why such and not other universities are to receive funds. It's not clear, and I think it needs some adjustments. But the worst thing, in my opinion, is the issue of further obscuration of the budget. That's the thing we've been discussing for a long time, and that's what happens all the time. I don't want to talk about moving spending out of the budget anymore, about funding from bonds. The Minister keeps saying, as an example of universities, that it is difficult for universities not to enjoy the fact that they receive money from bonds. Sure, it's better that they're getting from bonds than if they weren't going to get it at all. Except this is not the right way to finance expenditure. I don't want to talk about these other funds anymore. Another issue is the role of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, which is being limited. Mr Kleina said that, in fact, he asked whether this was to some extent due to a reduction in confidence in the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. In my opinion, that's not exactly the case. In the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, Law and Justice has a majority. There's never been a situation in the Parliament's finance committee that hasn't passed those laws on which the rulers care. Therefore, the majority here is absolutely sufficient to give such opinions as the government cares about. I think there's another problem here. The point is that some things should not see the light of day at all, because if they appear at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the opposition will also know about these expenses or transfers, or the decisions that you want to make. Therefore, it is better for the Sejm committee to be removed from the decision-making process and then there is no problem that everyone will learn about certain activities. So that there are a lot of things that I don't think would have to be included in the around budget bill. Mr Kleina has tabled a number of amendments with which I fully agree. We will support this bill around the budget, but we would like these amendments to be accepted by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer only to one point, that is, to this explanation by Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz. I would like to say that this response has convinced me even more that something is wrong with connecting households to broadband internet. In general, I have more and more doubts as to whether there is any logic in the planning of the state's finances for this purpose. Since this broadband fund It is relatively not large and is intended for specific purposes and the Minister says that we spend billions, billions, billions again, every year some huge amounts on broadband internet, I do not understand certain things. I do not understand that the state budget cannot be designated, for example. tens of millions of zlotys for the purposes mentioned here by the Minister, e.g. health and various other things that need to be taken from this fund, which is directly designed to provide broadband access in excluded areas. At the same time, the Minister says that we had to take this to include. The school could be connected to broadband internet. If the Minister had looked into the matter, he would have known that today many schools are still not connected to broadband. I mentioned the municipality of Cewice in the district of Lêbor. I think it wasn't until last week that they tried to connect the school to the broadband Internet. It's not a small school, and it took so long. So I think... Oh, and here's the thing. Last year, when discussing the around budget bill, about the state budget, when we also talked about the fact that you can't take the fund to broadband, you can't take it from the CepiK fund, it was the director of the department responsible for broadband connection that told me: but, sir, to this end, everyone around the schools will be able to connect to this broadband internet. It was about households, which are located nearby, within a short distance of schools, and which will also be able to connect. No one can connect anywhere, even though it's been said publicly. And that's how it was supposed to work. So, a request. The issue of broadband access is absolutely essential. All the networks have been built. Now it's time for the last piece. However, you have not fully used these six years to do so. You say the Internet was connected to a million farms by last year. Well, a million farms are a lot, but we're far from getting white spots removed. This is about access to knowledge, information, the possibility of remote learning during a pandemic. Hiding in a pandemic, saying that we have to run the Internet in some government... It's undoubtedly important. But how is a kid who's a primary or secondary school student supposed to attend class if he doesn't have access to the Internet? Very often it was all fictional, so please set a different priority here. Like I said, one day... I don't praise Once again, I want to say this to the Polish People's Republic of Poland, the post-war times. There was no electricity back then. Almost nowhere, although in Pomerania, in Greater Poland, in Silesia the current was generally led to most villages. At that time, it was possible to bring electricity to any farm, even miles away from the power plant, within a few years. And today, with a whole network built in Poland, we need not know what. What's taking so long? If the Minister had tried to figure out where to get information on how to connect to broadband, he would have seen that the Orange websites or other such institutions had data a few months ago. After my interventions, the letters update something there, but it's far from up-to-date. There is no reliable information on this subject. May the conclusion of this meeting be that someone will come to an end. Just look at my statements on the Internet to see what the answers are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Benjamin Godyla and Beat Małecka-Libera made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 574, and the report of the Commission In print No 574 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the 3 committees that have worked together today, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, I have the honour to present a report on the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws. The Commission requests the adoption of an amendment act. The basic content of the Act, the provisions of the Act are intended to improve the procedure of consent for permanent residence and work of foreigners, i.e. to make access to the labour market more flexible for foreigners arriving in Poland. The Commission agrees with the essential content of the Act, with amendments to improve it and eliminate errors. Referring to what happened at the joint committee meeting, I would like to say that most of the amendments, if not all, had the approval of the government side. The first amendment amends the regulation, which is authorised by the Foreign Minister and the Minister responsible for labour and social policy. The second concerns references and aims to ensure uniformity of provisions relating to temporary residence permits and permanent residence permits. The third concerns the formulation of references to another normative act and is therefore coherent. Amendment four correctly formulates the scope of the provisions which have been excluded for foreigners who have not reached the age of thirteen. Amendment 5 resolves doubts about living in one of the administrative units of the Asian part of the Russian Federation as circumstances authorising the receipt of a repatriation visa. Amendments 6 and 7 shall make adjustments with regard to references and relations between the provisions. Similarly, the seventh amendment seeks to formulate the relationship between the rules correctly. Amendment 8 aligns the terminology used in the legislation. Amendments 9 and 10 modify references to the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. Amendment 11th aims to conclude that payments made in connection with the extension of the seasonal work permit and not made to the State budget prior to the entry into force of the Act represent a revenue of 50% of the county These payments. As I mentioned at the outset, the joint committees are asking for the adoption of the law and are proposing amendments to it that I have discussed. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Remotely? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Senator, can you hear us? [[Voice from the room: He can't hear.]] [[Please turn on the microphone.]] You're already a senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u193	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. We know that today the most important group, the group that fills our labour market, are the citizens of Ukraine. I am not a member of any committee that has been designated to give an opinion on this project. I would like to know at the end of this year what is the scale of the problems related to the national rights acquired by this group to be employed on the Polish market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u194	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u195	Dear Senator, I am unable to provide accurate data, they are the responsibility of the government. I can only say that the entire amendment is related to the intention to simplify the procedure and to the non-functionality of the offices operating under current, more complex legal procedures. We also know that during the debate I'm way ahead of things here. Senator Libicki will also make an amendment to simplify the procedure with regard to applications submitted before the entry into force of our amendment. Because the amendment assumes that there are several modes. This most flexible, most functional one will apply after the amendment enters into force. Thus, the entire law is related to the identification of non-functionality and very long procedures which foreigners encounter, well, I assume that first of all the citizens of Ukraine, because they come to Poland in the largest number with the intention of taking up work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u196	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u197	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Ujazdowski has already partially answered the question I wanted to ask, because it was in a similar spirit, in which there was a question asked by my predecessor, Senator Zdrojewski. Nevertheless, I must ask. Because the procedures that are in force are one thing, knowing these procedures is the other, the difficulty of understanding these procedures is the third, and the simple steps that need to be done to get to the voivodeship office where I can submit properly completed documents are the fourth. At the Provincial Office in Szczecin around 4.00 a.m., queues start to get to the office, and employers are waiting for employees because they lack hands to work. Did you discuss this at the joint committee meeting, and is there a remedy for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u198	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u199	Thank you so much for that question. I think we've all had similar experiences. When I had the honour of fulfilling the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament in Lower Silesia, it was very many citizens, employers, but also foreigners who came with similar complaints. I am firmly convinced that this law makes sense provided that the personal, budgetary institutions responsible for giving consent to foreigners and in forming such an administrative culture, which is geared towards dealing with matters, and not to dismiss them. I think that, in the context of the budgetary debate on the state budget for 2022, we will be putting this issue on the table. Today we talked about the around budget law, and there we will have the right to ask whether behind this law, this amendment also covers administrative decisions, decisions to strengthen administrative institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. Those were all questions. Oh, no. You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, is it that certain presumptions are accepted in this bill, so that I can determine which ones are to replace the facts and then the presumptions will either be fulfilled or not? I'm using a description from the Legal Office here. I quote: "Constraint that the requirement that the foreigner has health insurance is fulfilled also if, as a result of granting him a temporary residence permit and work, he is entrusted with the work from which the title to compulsory health insurance arises.' If you have followed this text closely, you have noticed that this means that we assume that the foreigner has insurance if... that this is how we can give him permission to work, and then he will get insurance. And what happens if this cause-effect sequence isn't fulfilled, it's stopped? What about a foreigner like that? Aren't we putting too much pressure on you here? [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u202	You bet... what you call a presumption would be a more precise or harsher legal formula. However, it is also assumed to simplify procedures by ensuring that a declaration on employment, or actually certain forms of employment, which bring income at the basic level, means having insurance. Yes, here on the legislator's side is what we call an act of goodwill. But the alternative is a complex thicket of obstacles. The foreigner already employed must show the insurance documents, but above all, the obligation to reside... i.e. holding a check-in in the territory of the Republic of Poland. But okay... This was the intention of the government that there is some kind of goodwill here or the assumption of a positive approach to the applicant. I understand that since the government, on the basis of its own administrative experience, considered that it was necessary to simplify this procedure and reduce the number of requirements, this is how it identifies its current chronicity, its mitrality and all the negative phenomena associated with the extension of these procedures. I can say that my personal opinion is that the provisions contained in the project are positive as those that can unblock the procedure and simplify the procedure. But you're right, there's a kind of positive assumption about the applicant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u203	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of the Head of the Office for Foreigners, Mr. Jarosław Szajner. Would you like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am proud today that we have managed to bring to this point, when there is a law allowing for easier and faster proceedings when granting work permits and stays for foreigners. I'll refer to Senator Zdrojewski's question. First of all, Ukrainian citizens have a chance of simplification. These procedures, which we are proposing here, will, above all, allow for a faster and easier way of acquiring workers, mainly from Ukraine. Thank you very much for the committee's support for this project. I also thank Senator Ujazdowski very much for presenting his position. On behalf of the government, please accept this bill. What I can add, in connection with what Senator Zdrojewski asked, is how the attitude of Ukrainian citizens towards other citizens who are trying to work with us is that there are between 75 and 80% of them, depending on the type of permit. The data itself for the last year, as I can tell you, show that there really was about 1 million 600 to 1 million 800 registered at work offices statements about entrusting work to a foreigner, including about 80% the statements were made on the citizens of Ukraine. As regards the work permit that employers apply to the voivodship offices, there were about 455 thousand of them, of which between 75 and 80% concern Ukrainian citizens. With regard to work and residence permits, uniform permits are between 250 and 300 000 per year, and 89% concerns the citizens of Ukraine. So, once again, I would like to ask the High House to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u205	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Libicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, question one. If this bill comes in this form, we will actually have three procedures for examining applications. According to the new rules New proposals, as well as old proposals Depending on the date of their submission, each considered slightly differently. The question, also from people who do this on a daily basis, is why it is not possible to apply a uniform procedure to applications already submitted before the entry into force of the Act, but to break it down into 2 different modes? That's the first question. Question two. I believe that the bill is going in the right direction, and that is why I am asking what next steps you are planning to improve this. What is is not enough. And the third question is, do you plan on strengthening the personnel of the Foreign Offices? I'm asking because I'm gonna talk about this in my speech. In the last 10 years, the situation in Poland has changed radically as far as foreigners are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u207	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u208	Thank you for that question, Senator. To answer the first question, why are these 3 modes really, I will say that because this law is in a sense a saving act for matters that lie in the voivodship offices for more than a year. It's also related to COVID, as we know. Some of the offices were hybrid, some were closed, and the conclusions were flowing. And then what happened? Then the economy slowed down and foreigners started losing their jobs and changing employers. At the moment, in our legal system it is written so that an employee of a foreigner is bound to his employer with a uniform work and residence permit, so to change the employer, he would have to once again And that's what he does. To submit an application for authorisation. And now imagine that it's been a year, and these things are lying. These cases were lying because there were a lot of them, and what the senator also noticed, the staff weren't enough to rewrite such a large number of cases either. Note that this number has actually doubled in the last three years as regards applications for work and residence permits. Now the situation of those foreigners who applied for work and residence a year ago has also changed. Often they are not the same employers, often their insurance that they have purchased, have already expired, often the places of residence which they indicated in the lease contracts, in the lending agreements, are also obsolete. We accepted this date on 1 January 2021 because, in the case of these cases, there is already a year of limitation... sorry, not limitation, just expired, so to speak. Therefore, in these cases we give the opportunity to deal with them immediately by means of a statement from the employer and the foreigner that they will follow these principles, according to which they should follow, without sending more calls by the voivodships. The point is not to call them anymore, because the changes will certainly be, because after a year... Insurance contracts are often signed for a year, rental contracts for a year, employment contracts are also signed for shorter terms. So we solve the problem. And as far as newer cases are concerned, we're gonna give the voivodships a chance to handle newer cases within the normal time frame. Therefore, these new cases which have been submitted now and for which employers and foreigners seeking a job had to prepare appropriate documents... We do not want to put these documents aside because they have already prepared themselves and on the basis of these documents these decisions can be made. This mode, which seems to be a 3-step or 3-speed mode, is actually the most optimal mode in which voivodeships can solve this problem in their own place. Because some of the cases are already being considered, some of the cases that are this year are new, and these old cases are often those that need to be addressed and run for 2, 3, 4 months before all these situations are resolved. And one more thing needs to be considered. Well, cases before a year ago are often obsolete, because foreigners may not be in Poland and applications are submitted. So we give them a chance to come forward within 60 days with a statement that they want to do work under these conditions. I personally worked for 4 years in the Voivodeship Office, in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship Office, I also dealt with foreign affairs and I know that this mode is the most optimal mode for getting out of behind, from the current situation when it comes to voivodships. I'll tell you one more thing. One of the most important changes in this law is to change the declaration of entrusting work to a foreigner. Such a statement shall be made to the old-fashioned. Like I said, 80%. These are the citizens of Ukraine. These statements in the last few years are from 1 million 600 000 to 1 million 800 000 per year. This statement will now be amended, specifically the period of validity of the declaration. Currently it is 6 months in 12 months, i.e. after 6 months of work the foreigner has a kind of punishment for doing work for the next 6 months and therefore goes for permission to work in the voivodeship. You cannot again make such a statement about entrusting work to a foreigner to an old age. The current solution offers this possibility. The first statement is for 24 months and each subsequent statement is possible. Thus, a large dimension of tasks, while facilitating all formalities, goes to the elders. As a result, it gains also the county governor, because 50% the payment for the statement affects the account of the district governor and 50% to the state budget. Thanks to this we release resources from voivodships, which will be able to deal with work and residence permits, those that already directly affect voivodships. Did I answer that, Senator? [[I'll refer to it in my speech.]] Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u209	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. So far, there have been problems with the employment of foreigners for farm work. You say you've worked in the office before, so you know the Grójecki issue, you know what it's always been and there are problems. Well, there's also a shortage of people to work in other regions. The statements are made, they are signed... I understand that this change will make it easier... Or is it gonna make it harder? We'll see, it might make it harder instead of easier. Will there be more bureaucracy or less bureaucracy? That's a question too. Until now, farmers have been able to employ themselves on the basis of a contract with KRUS. It's about health insurance at KRUS. Now, after this change of rules, will it be in force, whether there will now be new rules and we will have to re-work... Because before the farmers agreed, they agreed, and it was that those who could hire on the farm were insured. It's about the health part in KRUS.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u211	This law does not affect the issue of employment on agricultural holdings. As far as seasonal work is concerned, this law only partially indicates the distribution of these funds, how they should be applied, but does not affect this matter, because the authorisation for seasonal work is a separate permit. Whether the bill increases bureaucracy or facilitates procedures... She simplifies a lot, simplifies a lot. The declaration of entrusting work to a foreigner can be obtained in 7 days from the labour office or from the district office, depending on what we call it. As regards the employment of foreigners by farmers, the Act does not affect the current state in any way. They can hire in a different way... But when it comes to seasonal work, the law doesn't change the rules of seasonal work. What does it change? It changes most of all... It is about single-stay employment, about uniform work and residence permits issued by voivodships. And the law simplifies these very long procedures. Like I said, I'm sure it won't make it any harder... These will be the simplest rules that are possible at the moment, i.e. the declaration of entrusting work to a foreigner. And that's what we're putting pressure on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u212	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please. It's remote. [[Do we hear you, Marshal?]] Yes. We hear you, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. The repatriates' environment is a little concerned about this bill, and I'm trying to calm them down. In general, I think the bill is good, but I would ask you to clarify a few doubts, in fact two. Will it not be so that the right to obtain a repatriation visa will be lost by the person who has lived in the area generally mentioned in Article in the past. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) but later moved to areas of the Russian Federation not covered by the Council of Ministers Regulation? For example, it is a person who lived in Kazakhstan before and currently lives in St. Petersburg. That's the first question. And the other. What will be the effect of the Act on persons who have lived or currently live in areas excluded under the Regulation and have already applied for a national visa to be repatriated or declared repatriated? Will these people be deprived of their right to be repatriated? These two questions came to me from these backgrounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u215	Mr. Senator, I wasn't the author of the provisions of the repatriation bill, but I can ask the director of Błeszyński, who is in the courtroom to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u216	If I may, in addition to Mr Shayner's words... The provisions of the Repatriation Act itself, which provides the basis for obtaining a repatriation visa, refers to the date of entry into force of that law. And later events concerning the conduct of a person after this event, in my opinion, are unrelevant from the point of view of whether someone is entitled to receive a repatriation visa. It also seems to me that, in a situation where proceedings are under way for the issue of a repatriation visa and an application has been lodged by a person who has previously resided in a territory which will not be covered by the Regulation as an Asian part of the Russian Federation, the consul will most likely apply the existing rules. But I think it would be good here if we could get... that is to say, written explanations from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that proposed this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u217	Thank you very much. Do you have a senator? Senator Tyszkiewicz, I'm addressing you. Is the answer satisfied already?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u218	If I get an explanation in writing from the Foreign Ministry before voting, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u219	But there is one point, Mr. Senator, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been authorized to represent the government during the examination of this law. Yeah, well, I don't think that's an option right now. We can only ask the Minister to answer this question, possibly in writing, of the senator, taking into account his position as Foreign Minister... Can I ask the Minister to do that? [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Yes, Mrs. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question, please. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u220	Minister, 3 or 4 years ago, I was interested in this problem because of the intervention of entrepreneurs. So I was interested in what it was like to spend time... [[Voice from the room: Permission.]] ...work permits. Especially in the voivodship office in Gdansk. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Three or four years ago. And I got information from which it appeared that this time in different offices is different, significantly different. The office where you worked had a good score. But the Gdansk province was at the end. Therefore, I repeat the questions. What is the average waiting time for permission to work in Poland? What is the average time in the voivodship office in Gdańsk against the background of other voivodship offices? If you can't answer me right now, I'm asking you in writing. I'm talking about the pre-pandemic period. Of course, the pandemic here has caused a certain disturbance. But then you could see the big difference. And I'd like to know if the difference is still there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u221	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u222	Of course, Mr. Senator, we'll make a statement like that. Data is available. All you have to do is prepare them. In response Of course, I also agree with you that it was not only COVID who influenced this. The number of applications affected this. So the interest of foreigners and the needs of the Polish economy influenced the fact that this number grew so much. I'm talking about time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u223	Minister, one more element has undoubtedly come in. The way the office operates. But that's for discussion. I'd like to get some information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u224	Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u225	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, a man's life doesn't end at work, a foreigner's life doesn't end at work. And I, unfortunately, have the impression that we are not quite But maybe you can get me out of a mistake. We're designing what's going to happen to the foreigner, except that he's going to be working with us. So the first question is: what is the policy towards foreigners, as you said correctly, mostly towards Ukrainians? The number of foreigners exceeds at the moment, according to these data you presented, 1 million 800 thousand, the number of people of all nationalities, national minorities in Poland from the census. For some time, we may not have boasted as much as they thought it was a plus that we have a relatively monolithic society, and we have no problems with society being divided, so I would call it. Yeah, but the politics... The question is, do these foreigners have... [[Timer signal]] ...stay and assimilate? Are we gonna get rid of them later? Continue because I don't know if I can yet, Mrs. Marshal... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please finish. Finish it, Mr. Senator.]] The second part, it's kind of connected to the job itself. The number of unemployed is low, we already know that the unemployment rate is low, but the number of unemployed is still above the number, I would say, of foreign imports. This means that there are still reserves with us, but you may need to otherwise spread out job offers More evenly so that it is evenly developed, not only in certain centers, cities. And the last part. I'm not talking about the Ukrainians here, but there are so many minorities... The other way around. There are foreigners who come to Poland and do not assimilate. Do you have the Minister's signals that they are being created, well, I would name places like the West, of course relatively... feeling the proportions, the places where these minorities rule their own laws, maybe not in accordance with Polish law?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u227	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u228	Thank you, Senator. The first thing is a corrigendum. I was talking here about 1 million 800 thousand registered statements about entrusting work to a foreigner. It's not always the equivalent of one person. This applies to all statements, and the citizens of Ukraine represent between 75 and 80%. But yes, there is a very large share of employees in Poland of Ukrainian citizens. The most important thing for us right now is to make it easier for them to start a job, stay in this job, change this job, because it is particularly important right now. What can be observed in the voivodship offices is a great difficulty due to the change of work. So far, foreigners coming to Poland and working under a uniform residence permit have been associated with their employer for a long time, but COVID has largely changed this because they had to look for a new job. This is why we want to make it easier, above all, to get a job and to keep it. That's the most important thing right now, and that's what this bill leads to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u229	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask me a question... [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u230	What about the general policy? Are you planning on what to do with this crowd of people who will come to Poland? I'm going to give you an even more drastic example that will make sense of what's going on. In some centres that teach Ukrainian as a minority language I asked that formally in one statement. Science is also offered to children of fresh immigrants, just immigrants who came here for work. Not children of national minorities, just fresh immigrants. Is this about isolating them from Polish society, or do we want to assimilate them, including their children?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u231	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u232	I can answer that. We want to assimilate them first of all, but, as I said, right now it is about the ability to get a job easier, as well as maintaining this job, because this is a basis for life here in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewski. You're welcome. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I had 4 questions, but you answered 2 questions, to the question of Senator Libicki and Senator Tyszkiewicz, and one of the questions I also had for you, was asked by Marshal Borusewicz. But since there will be a written reply, I would also ask that I be an additional, second recipient. The only question I have left is dynamics. I observe the situation when it comes to immigrants from Ukraine, I see that this dynamic has weakened, that some people have left Poland as a result of a pandemic, in short, and only some of them have returned. Can you describe the situation? And finally... I do not want to speak in the debate, so I will now say that I am generally pleased with this amendment, and I believe that it is going in the right direction and I will vote for it. I'd rather she was introduced faster than at the end of this year, but, once again, I'm very happy that she is. [[Timer signal]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u235	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u236	Thank you, Senator. It will be difficult to describe this dynamic when it comes to the impact of COVID on Poland's economy, on workers from Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens who worked in Poland, but I will talk about a certain specific condition. Access to the labour market for Ukrainian citizens begins in Poland with a declaration on the assignment of work to a foreigner, which is registered at the employment office. Here I'll add that you can make such a statement electronically, you don't have to stand In queues, this statement can be made electronically. These kinds of statements are the most important. Such a statement shall be obtained within approximately 7 days. As I said, there are between 1 million and 1 million and 800 thousand depending on the year. It doesn't mean that there are so many people, so many registered statements about entrusting work to a foreigner. Next to it is seasonal work, which is most interested in farmers. In this case, the decision is issued in the district old age. There is further permission to work for which employers apply to the voivodships, it is as if the next stage. As I told you before, the declaration of entrusting work to a foreigner allowed to entrust work to a foreigner for 6 months within 12 months and was necessary for punishment, which also forced some workers from Ukraine probably to leave, because waiting for a decision in the provincial offices could be too long. What we are doing now is giving them the opportunity to work for up to 24 months, which is up to 24 months, depending on how much the contract with the employer will apply. The next step we're talking about here is the work permit issued by the voivode. This work permit allows you to work within, without any withdrawal period, therefore there is a greater interest here, above all, in the citizens of Ukraine, because they do not have to leave, there is no withdrawal period, they can remain here. The next stage is a permit, which we are now trying to make as expensive as possible, and for which foreigners often wait up to 2 years, this is a year and a half, in some voivodship offices there are even 2 years. and this is a uniform permit for work and residence. It's like another stage where the people of Ukraine really care. This permit does not require a visa as a residence title, because here the permit itself is a residence title. The residence title can be up to 3 years. What concerns Ukrainian citizens who have been working with us for a long time is an opportunity to seek the so-called. long-term resident residence. They're going through the next stage and they're assimilating here with us. Achievement of this stage is most often what they dream of, so to speak, those workers. I don't say it on the basis of statistics, I say it on the basis of conversations with foreigners who come to me. They want to stay here, they're trying to get long-term resident permission. It's kind of a further stage after this temporary stay. This is the path that Ukrainian citizens often go through. Of course, some of them leave, their decisions are different, often someone from the family has gone abroad, there has a better salary and the whole family is moved there. But it is also the case that these Ukrainian citizens who are leaving are being replaced by other Ukrainian citizens. We even see in the statistics that this number, when it comes to Ukrainian citizens, is not decreasing, although some of those who worked with us a few years ago have already left and perhaps work in Germany, the Netherlands or in other countries of the European Union. However, they try to have as long as possible, as certain permits for work in Poland, especially those that give the possibility of staying without additional visa. I think this is the direction when it comes to Ukrainian citizens. We aim above all to make it easier for them to obtain these residence titles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u237	Thank you very much. [[Can I ask you a quick question?]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u238	I'll ask you to write me back on this dynamic, if you will, Minister. Thank you very much for these answers, they are satisfying for me. But I'm going to give you an opinion, and I'm going to put the question to the end. In Wroclaw, this group that dominates... This is about 70,000 people and these are very young people, most often at the age of 25.30. It is very important that they do not move, in short, to the West, i.e. to the rest of Poland, because they are extremely important. The element of completing the labour market. Do you have anything in your programmes in connection with these facilitations that will, in short, encourage them to stay longer in Poland? Thank you very much. This is my last statement at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u240	First of all, Mr. Senator, the answer is what I said: easier access to work and residence permits, which is this period of up to 3 years without having to have a visa, that is a uniform permit issued by the voivode. If this law comes into force and we can apply these rules, then a uniform residence and work permit, but also other permits that the voivodships issue, will be able to obtain faster, because the problem that is at the moment, will be solved in the voivodship offices, and thus the capacity of the voivodship offices will be much greater in dealing with all residence titles. That, too. I don't know if I pointed that out at first. Work permits, which are also issued by the voivodships, and of which there are about 450,000 a year. Some of them, a large part, because it is over 50%, will be used by employers not as a work permit, because they will benefit from the possibility of registering a job claim to a foreigner, and thus the voivodships will have more opportunities, more resources to deal with residence permits, i.e. those long-term ones, without the need for a visa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't think there'll be any more questions... Yeah, we don't see any calls. [[Head of the Office for Foreigners Jarosław Szajner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main purpose of the Law on the amendment of the Foreigners Act and some other laws is to speed up the issuing of decisions to foreigners in matters concerning the titles of legal residence and legal work. In the current reality, the great pain for both employers and foreigners is prolonged proceedings, lasting even a few years, and here I am not exaggerating, because it is the opinion of more than 50 employers associated with the Polish Labour Agency Convention. The law therefore introduces precise deadlines within which the authorisation case is to be dealt with by the competent authority; this is a 60-day period. However, this period has been calculated since the last of the days on which the foreigner has submitted an application for a residence permit in person or his personal appointment has taken place at the office for the purpose of submitting an application, the foreigner has submitted an application for an authorisation which does not contain deficiencies or has been completed after the call of the voivode. In practice, this deadline will be calculated from the date of completion of the formal deficiencies and no deadline has been set for the voivode to call for completion of the formal deficiencies. This means that the duration of the procedure can be almost freely extended and the Authority does not have to remain in operation at all times. This will significantly reduce the possibility for foreigners and their employers to assert their rights. Nor will it affect the real shortening of the procedure, and it will sanction the extension of proceedings. It should be noted, however, that the 60-day time limit for temporary residence permits is still longer than that laid down in the Code of Administrative Procedure and will also be extended by a period in which the voivode does not call for deficiencies to be completed. Secondly, a new requirement has been added in the case of declarations of assignment and single temporary residence and work authorisations, which in both cases has an equivalent wording. According to him, in order for the declaration to be registered and the permit issued, the foreigner must be provided with a salary whose monthly salary is not less than the minimum wage for work, regardless of the length of working time and the type of legal relationship on which the work is based. In practice, this requires the provision of a minimum full-time salary for each foreigner, regardless of the extent to which he will really do his job. It is often necessary to hire a person only part-time. In such situations, employment of foreigners will be practically excluded. It will be economically justified to hire a person who has a Polish nationality or a foreigner doing his job on the basis of a declaration that he or she is entrusted with the work or a uniform permit. A part-time worker may receive a reduced remuneration in proportion, lower than the minimum wage of a full-time worker. The introduction of this requirement will also, without any basis, differentiate the situation of foreigners performing work on the basis of a uniform permit or a declaration of assignment and the situation of workers from Poland or foreigners doing work on the basis of a type A licence. Such a solution should be considered contrary to the constitutional principle of equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator John Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start with praise. I think that the situation of foreigners who work or want to work in Poland is so complicated and difficult that every step you take to improve this situation deserves recognition. You are taking this step by law, and I thank you for that. Thank you because... I think you have a case in front of you that you didn't expect when you came here. Well, this young man who left me here is such a foreigner who comes from Kyrgyzstan. My senator's office is working, and he and his wife are working. Their experience is really difficult, so I thank you all the more for taking this initiative. From the moment I decided to work with Mr. Maksat, until I could legally hire him, it was a year ago. I've waited a year to get a job so that a man who helps me function as a senator I need this because of my limitations, he could do this job. It was a necessary job for me. I even intervened in the Foreign Office in the Voivodeship Office in Poznań. I was talking about how I'm not a typical coincidence. It's not because I'm a senator, it's because I'm a person with disabilities. And Mr. Maksat's help has a different dimension to me than any other job. Now Mr. Maksat's wife filed for a residence card. She also works with me on the basis of a provision that graduates of Polish universities have the right to employment from the vending machine. I used that recipe. We applied for a residence card. We've been waiting seven months. I don't know how much longer we'll be waiting. We've been waiting since May. I'm talking about it because I just came across it myself. In this context, one thing surprises me, and I can't quite agree with the Minister here. In fact, I'm surprised by the two deadlines for past cases. It seems to me quite logical that there is no special difference whether someone submitted a document in December 2020 or in January 2021. These are past cases. It seems to me that it would be logical to regulate cases in one way, regardless of the date of submission of the document, and the cases on which the documents will be submitted after the entry into force of this law, in accordance with the new provisions. And such an amendment, which would extend this record to all past cases, allow me to lay down the hands of the marshal. And one more point. Because I referred here to my own case, I would add that there are also talks from this office for foreign affairs. The question of how many employees they would have had to have to issue all these permits in a regulatory manner was the answer: we would have to double our employment because we have jobs corresponding to the situation that was 10 years ago. The number of foreigners, the Polish labour market, all this looked different then than it looks today. What I would like to say is that, by the end of my speech, I would like to ask you to go this way consistently. Let me give you an example. There was talk of Ukrainian citizens. These Ukrainian citizens are about to have Christmas and some of them cannot leave because, for example. they have submitted documents, a request for a residence card, and this involves that they must be in Poland, they have no way back. These are also other cases. There is a Kyrgyz colony in Poznań, it is a group of about 50 people and I know people who, for various reasons, also because they have just submitted applications for a residence card, cannot leave Poland, and for reasons of family, human, which happen, would like to do so. It's quite understandable. When we know that parents don't see their daughter a student for two years, because she's still waiting for her residence card, it's just a human voice and you want to make it possible for these people to help, so that after two years they can meet and talk to their own kid in the country. So, for my part, the declaration: every next step you take on this path will always come with my support. I've already made my amendment. Thank you very much. I'm gonna let you see me again. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Gromko, Gorgon-Komor, Łyczak and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Libicki. The discussion is closed. Does a representative of the Office for Foreigners wish to respond to the legislative proposal submitted? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, since the committees have prepared reports on the laws, as announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the State Protection Service in the years 2022.2025. and consider it as item 11 of the agenda; the Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office and consider it as item 12 of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation and consider it as item 13 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. The text of the Act is contained in print No 564 and the report of the Commission In print No 564 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u246	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a report on the work of the committee on amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Property of the Treasury. The purpose of the Act is to enable the National Agricultural Support Centre to hand over to the Minister responsible for State assets the exercise of the right from shares or shares forming part of the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury. This transfer shall be made at the request of the Minister indicated where this is necessary for the implementation of the economic policy of the State, including the protection of the interests of the Treasury. The shares and shares thus taken over are the property of the State Treasury which is not part of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury. In addition, the entity representing the State Treasury in this respect will change. It will be the Minister responsible for State assets. This short amendment is very important. It is very important and necessary for what the Polish village is waiting for, what Polish farmers are waiting for above all, to be created. I'm talking about a food holding company, a holding company we've been waiting a long time for because it's been a few years. It was tried by the previous 3 ministers. You started Minister Jurgel, you continued to do so, Minister Ardanowski. Then you were Minister Puda, during which there was a clear inhibition of this process. But today we have a completely different situation, and the leadership in the agricultural department has changed, and we believe that this holding company, also thanks to this amendment, will rise very quickly. According to the announcements we have, this will take place in the most beautiful month of May, 2022. As regards the food holding company itself, it is intended to serve, among others. To the task... One of the most needed actions is the fight against price agreements and the contractual advantage of large companies buying agricultural crops from farmers. It didn't come out of nowhere, ladies and gentlemen. This situation came to fruition after the transformation period in our country, even before the European Union entered, there was a mass sale of establishments, mainly agri-food, those best and those good foreign companies. And this has led to their domination since then, and the one who bears the greatest burden, the farmer, who must produce what we all need, is the worst being treated, the worst. And to change the situation... 'Cause so far, even the government Whether it's the one or the other. He did not have a great opportunity to interfere with the bad situation that we are currently dealing with. Therefore, the idea was to create what we call a food holding company, a food group, the creation of a so-called food holding company. intervention, which will simply stand up for Polish farmers. And maybe somebody will say that in a collision with those giants who are on our market, this holding company, this capital group that will be strengthened by these companies thanks to this amendment that we're making today, it's not going to mean much. And yet I don't think that's gonna happen. Well, we know such examples that a small buy-out of surplus, e.g. 5% , made the prices at this proposed level. And I believe that's what's gonna happen now. I believe that's gonna happen. Today, this holding is being built on the basis of the National Sugar Company. The National Sugar Company today, as far as the financial situation is concerned, is doing well. It is to be believed that this will also be the case with the companies that will enter there. At the moment it is Elewarr, and it will also be Danko, Małopolska Plant Breeding, Poznań Plant Breeding, Kutnowska Sugar Burak Farm, Pomeranian-Mazurska Potato Farm, Animal Farming and Plant Seeding Polanowice, Agricultural Kietrz Combine. I believe it deeply and appeal from this place to the Minister. I know that efforts have already been made in this direction, so that the holding company will also include meat companies. The point is that we should not be in such a difficult situation that we are dealing with today from e.g. in the pig area. You ask for such companies to be there, that situation would change then. I believe that this holding company, as I pointed out at the outset, will rise by that date. The Commission has adopted a revised law without amendments and recommends such a decision to the High House. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by Members, but the Member is not here. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Thank you, Mr Marshal. Thank you, I don't want to.]] Thank you very much to Minister Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Art. The 5th bill we're changing is in paragraph 5. 6 gives the Minister responsible for agriculture a delegation to establish a list of agricultural companies It is of special importance for the economy. Tell me how many companies there are at the moment and how many of them will be transferred, I understand, to the holding company. What's the key here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u249	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur presented a specific list of entities that are already taken into account when setting up the National Food Group. These companies currently have 42, of which 8 companies will now enter the National Food Group. These are the entities mentioned by the senator, which is, of course, the National Sugar Company, on the basis of which the food group will be created. But I do not hide that within the National Sugar Company there are already so-called. daughter companies that deal with the agri-food industry. These are: the potato industry plant in Trzemeszno; Lubelska Bee, i.e. the plant that produces sweets; the company in Włocławek, Poland's preparations; and also the Stoisław Mills. As regards those companies to be included From here, among others. amendment of a parliamentary amendment which dispels the doubts of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which entities, how they were to be incorporated into this food group This is, as the senator mentioned, the following are: Małopolska Plant Breeding; Wielkopolska Plant Farming; Danko, which is a plant breeding company; Kietrz, a company called Polanowice, which lies on the border of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Wielkopolskie voivodship. And here it is about the location, i.e. the proximity of these 3 entities: Danko, Wielkopolska breeding and Polanowice. And that would be all, I guess. As for the key to this food group's choice, I'm not hiding Mr. Senator mentioned it. First of all, the so-called. acquisition, i.e. taking entities that could enter the National Food Group as part of the processing. We must also not allow such a situation that these entities will not have the so-called. a raw material base, such a basic base, for processing, for those entities which will form this food group. Hence, among others. these entities have been generated. In the meantime, it was amended so-called. Sugar bill. You may be asking Senator Chróścikowski about this issue, that is, whether the shares included in the National Food Group will not be silent shares. This amendment has already taken place in the middle of this year and there is no such threat, i.e. the Treasury will exercise, by increasing these shares, the rights of shares. As far as rights from employee shares or growers are concerned, they will in fact be reduced in the structure, but their value will be incomparably higher. The social side, which are the trade unions of the National Sugar Company, as well as the plantation unions themselves, fully supported this amendment, and the first one, and the second one which is now going so-called. The path of the Messenger. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u251	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You just mentioned the company, the Małopolska Plant Farm, which also has a horse breeding in Białka. There is another company that also runs combined farms. Will it be passed together, or will it be separated? What's it gonna be like for studs? These companies, which today have very good economic results, have supported, you can say, so comprehensively, together in their accounts... Will this be maintained, or will there be any change? I'm asking because I haven't heard of it anywhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you warned me about these questions. To be honest, I was prepared to respond in advance. As regards the valuation of those entities which will form the National Food Group, it is not subject to any discussion here. The valuation will be carried out comprehensively and thus both capitalization and the transfer of these companies will also be complete. Therefore, there will be no exemptions for the existing activities of those companies which will form the National Food Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u254	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for discussion. For the record, the Senators of Sweden and Świlski have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on the consolidation and exchange of land, the law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books and the law on public roads. The text of the Act is contained in print No 586 A, the committee's report In the letters Nos 586 A and 586 B. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Bober, to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u255	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! These will be 2 different reports, but before I proceed to these reports, I will add one brief sentence on the previous point. The point is that the remaining strategic companies remain within KOWR's reach and will carry out the missions entrusted to them. Only those excluded will be entrusted to the Treasury Minister and the Treasury Minister will bring them to the National Sugar Company. Indeed, these will be 2 different reports. The Committee on Agriculture has not submitted any proposals for the contested law on the consolidation and exchange of land, the law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books and the law on public roads, and has almost unanimously adopted this law, recommending it without amendment. There were six votes in favour, one senator abstained. At the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, the discussion was deepened. In fact, the issue of Article has been specifically taken into account. 3, on the Public Roads Act. Well, at the time of the procession in the Seym, this article was brought in during the second reading. The Commission considered, in accordance with the opinion of our Legislative Office, that the procedure for such an important act should take place in three steps: first reading, second reading and adoption of the law. The committee therefore recommends deleting this article. Since this article has been deleted by the committee, it will not be included in the title. The first point is also the proposal for an amendment to be deleted from this provision on public roads. Indeed, this article brought the most controversy. In fact, the occupation of the road lane concerns telecommunications companies that charge for it. The situation here is that, depending on the year in which the infrastructure investments were carried out in this area, these charges to local authorities for the occupation of the road lane 'Cause that's what it's called. They're different. All these investments that were carried out before 1998 are excluded, not covered by payment, and since 2005 these rates have actually varied. The representatives of investors present at the meeting also claimed that this law was not consulted with them. This matter was only brought to the meeting of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. The provisions of the amendment to the law on the consolidation of agricultural land do not raise much attention. This is a very important law that will enable the procession and speed up certain issues concerning a very complicated situation, a very difficult area. Indeed, without the goodwill of fellow users, it will be difficult to carry out such a process as to actually merge. Some instruments are equipped with an old town of the county, which will initiate the procedure. The Starosta will also be able, on the basis of these provisions concerning the perpetual books, to cancel the books without revealing the owner. It's about all the cases that started before 1948 and where the landlord hasn't shown up yet. By virtue of the law, the governor will be able, after the appropriate procedure has been initiated, to simply cancel such perpetual books. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I request that the Act be adopted together with 5 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u256	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Rafał Romanowski again, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act is to introduce solutions to improve and accelerate the conduct of merger proceedings and to comply with the obligation imposed by the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 18 April 2019. The Act does not affect the procedures carried out in the framework of the RDP for the years 2014 to 2020 for the integration of land. The most important solution is that the possibility of using electronic means of communication has been introduced in the implementation of tasks related to the carrying out of joint actions. I do not hide that this is the result of an epidemic and an epidemic. It also refused to read the decision to initiate the merger procedure and the decision to approve the merger project at the meetings of the merging participants. This will also contribute to the smooth implementation of administrative action. An obligation has been introduced to include provisions for the initiation of the merger procedure and to decide on the approval of the land consolidation project on the pages of the Public Information Bulletin of the Authority serving the authority which issued the decision or decision. Time limits have been introduced for voivodships and administrative courts . and this is very important information to deal with appeals and complaints, which will allow the final decision to approve the land consolidation project within a reasonable time frame. A solution has been put in place whereby, in the event of a review of the action within 2 months, the administrative courts taking into account the complaint will not be able to repeal the decision but merely determine its decision in breach of the law. A representative of the municipality and the village council will be included in the advisory committee for the development of the joint project, because however it may be, this is done within the framework of local legislation at municipal and local level. An elder has been designated as the authority competent to apply to the perpetual accounting court for the execution of entries in the perpetual books of changes resulting from the decision to approve the merger or land exchange project. Amendments to the Public Road Act of 21 March 1985 were made to not apply the Article. 155 of the Code of Administrative Procedure for the decision to occupy the road lane. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I have mentioned that this will not affect the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 because the combined project itself is 100% financed by grants and is 100% return, but 64% is within the framework of the Rural Development Programme and this amount must be preserved, it was even increased during this budget period . a 36% It's from the state budget. The Polish Districts Association called for it to be 100% financed by the State budget. The difference is that these amounts are written down in different paragraphs, perhaps it would be a big facilitation for district elders if they could benefit from this type of support under one paragraph, i.e. from the state budget, but the most important thing is that this process of 100% funding, i.e. reimbursement, will be maintained. The question of assessing the time limit for courts. This term was also assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. The provision itself, as a result of the comments in the consultation, was only clarified and agreed with the Ministry of Justice. With regard to these amendments that you have tabled, the rapporteur, which have been adopted by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, unfortunately I will allow myself to disagree with the rapporteur in all its lengths, i.e. on the first, second and third comments. As regards the second point, the transfer of the rules currently proposed in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a.1d of the Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land It's an art. 1 point (10) (a) a noveli to art. The 2th Law on the integration and exchange of land, these legislative proposals are merely procedural in nature, as they determine that an obstacle in the form of an unregulated legal state of the ground must not constitute an obstacle to the initiation of a merger procedure. The provisions are therefore set out in Article. 33, which will be of a procedural nature after the amendment, given the other procedural provisions proposed therein. A. 2 of the amended law refers to consolidation, not to consolidation. And that's what's very important about this project. The provision is of a substantive nature as it determines the object of the merger itself and limits the possibility of certain effects of the merger. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that these provisions should be included in the Article. 2 amended act. As regards comment No 3 of the Legislative Bureau, submitted by the rapporteur and tabled as an amendment, this is the harmonisation of the terminology used in the Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 11, in Article. 33a in point 5, the words "the adjudicating committee' shall be replaced by the words "the committee referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, determining. I cannot agree with this amendment for a very simple reason. 'Cause she's not consistent. If this amendment were to be accepted, it would be necessary to harmonise the terminology used in the Act and thus apply the reference to the Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 for the committee. And other provisions of the law in force should also be amended, i.e. Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 and Article 3 The Commission shall adopt implementing acts Therefore, this amendment will not lead to the objective pursued by the local government committee. With regard to note 1, namely the amendment of the Public Road Act, as the Senator rightly pointed out, the committee responsible, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, regulates, and even more so, Mr Senator, stresses the task of local government. And here are very specific defects resulting from the depletion of local government budgets. And these losses should be reflected in this provision. But if Mr Marshal permits, Mr Cieszyński is with us, who represents the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers in the field of digitization and he will probably respond much more effectively to this scope. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u258	Thank you very much. Minister, do you wish to speak? Come on in. Hello, Mr Janusz Cieszyński, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u259	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The changes we propose here regarding the Public Roads Act are, ladies and gentlemen, such changes which, I say, result from the consummation of a certain agreement concluded during the process of the investment facilitation law for the telecommunications sector. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that, in the case of tolls for the occupation of the road, which are an important component of the costs of telecommunications operators, at the request of telecommunications operators was 10 times, Ladies and gentlemen, the maximum amount of the charge for the occupation of the road was reduced. But there was one very important condition. Namely, the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government, after two years of negotiations and discussions, accepted the wording of the rules because it was intended to concern future investments. So not those that have already been built and the entrepreneur, building such infrastructure and certainly following the economic account, calculated whether it is profitable Only new investments. A for the latter at current rates That's what local governments say. A significant amount of the revenue of these local authorities, simply these revenues They won't be depleted. So the new investments are, and the old ones stay, just like they used to be. And now, what did you do to the telecommunications companies? They hired law firms. And the law firms said: Ladies and gentlemen, there is a general provision in the Code of Administrative Procedure and it is possible for those old decisions, for which these rates were up to 200 PLN, to move and apply for a new decision, precisely in accordance with Article. 155 of the Code of Administrative Procedure to take advantage of the fact that there is a reduced rate. What's the effect? This results in the result that someone who already charges customers with charges calculated according to the rate of PLN 200 gets the benefit of a 10-fold reduction in this rate. That is to say, the removal of this provision, this amendment which the High Commission has decided to vote on, that is, ladies and gentlemen, the transfer of money from local governments to telecommunications companies. Of course, if that is the will of the High House, I understand it, but I would like to draw attention to it. This is the effect of cooperation within KWRIST, this is the effect of giving incentives to invest, but not at the expense of what has already been built. I would therefore very much like to encourage the honourable senators to reconsider their position on this issue and not accept this amendment. I would also encourage you to listen to the voice of the Polish Districts Association, who was an applicant for these changes and who repeatedly asked the Prime Minister's office to rescind such changes, indicating that this is a violation of certain arrangements, a certain social pact, which was concluded around this case. I know that during the committee meeting there were representatives of telecommunications companies, I was 100% I agree with the fact that there are a lot of unfinished business there for many years, there is no doubt about it, but it should never be a summary to go against certain compromises that I think are right. So if someone's already calculated something, built something to invest, it pays what it was, when they built it, and if they're building new ones, it's to encourage them to deliver the Internet to places where it's not there today... Self-government is this law, in some ways, we are forcing even a 10-fold reduction in the resources that are destined for it. I therefore ask you very much not to accept the amendment proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u261	Yes, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, because these are far-reaching changes, especially when it comes to shortening the deadline. C.P.A. there is a time limit of 10 years for annulment of the decision, or even 30 years for damages. It's only five years in here, and in special cases, it's about repealing a decision, it's two years. These are very short deadlines. Plus, there's a new institution. If the Minister could possibly point out to me, in which legislation it had previously been applied, namely the adoption of a legal presumption that the legal status is regulated, even though for example. The legal successors aren't known. It's the lips. 1a and 1b added to Article. 33. Is there such a state somewhere in Polish law, such a possibility that you simply move on to the agenda that you do not know the legal successor, do not know where you live, and simply decide beyond the will of these successors, and then to move such a decision is only 5 years or 2 years when the code is 10 years old and for compensation
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senator rightly pointed out these terms. However, I do not hide that the consolidation process in our country should finally be implemented effectively, and these changes also meet such social expectations. There is even a famous case concerning Lipnica Wielkiej in the Małopolska Voivodship. This committee of petitions, your Senate committee, is to proceed with the bill, so that, among other things, it will. settle the merge issues, not regulated, with an apology, from the Emperor of Vienna, i.e. since the turn of the 19th and 20th century. And among others. Such situations in the future, after the entry into force of this amendment of the law, will not happen. The senator mentioned a short period of 10 to 5 years. But let us remember that every year we do the so-called. The merge contest, we're not talking about a merge contest that concerns millions of hectares, we're just talking about a merge contest that applies to several towns. And that's the first thing... That's enough to get a land consolidation prize. And these backlogs, so-called. The unlisted land mentioned at the turn of the 19th... well, before the period of World War II, after the period of World War II, is really very, very much. If it is accepted that the court can at best determine the decision taken in violation of the law... However, this deadline will be considerably shortened. I also mentioned that, in the current context, we have increased the resources for this task. 64% is a grant under the Rural Development Programme, which is what the European Commission expects of us in the field of consolidation. Moreover, it will be much easier to implement both national and common agricultural policies through the implementation of specific instruments. But in many cases it turns out... Because when applying for a specific action, the right to land is required as an annex. And it often turns out that although I work on a given ground for 30 years, that is, after this ten-year period for the appeal process, this land does not belong to me at all and I do not necessarily know who this land has ever... I may be able to determine it, but I will not be 100% sure. So these consolidation processes are, first of all, the implementation of the postulates of the local government, i.e. in this case it is here, among others. about the Polish County Union, discussed in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. And this is such a far-reaching expectation in terms of regulation and, above all, the proper direction of the merge process itself. These terms are not an attempt to lie to reality. On the contrary, there are really many regions in our country... This is particularly true of the so-called. ground breakage, which concerns the Świętokrzyskie, Małopolskie, Podkarpackie voivodship, a large part of Lublin voivodship, but also part of the southern Mazowieckie voivodship, where this breakup is really very large. Land exchange took place at different times and was very intense, but in no way was it legally established. So these trials... If we are to use really effective measures, even within the framework of the common agricultural policy, but also within the framework of the Polish Government, in a lot of actions is necessary evidence of land ownership. This must be a system solution, which above all will improve the process of integrating land. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u263	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u264	I was even more concerned by the Minister. I started reading those recipes. Well, Minister, I'm asking you exactly where is the institution of presumption of possession in which the legal act, in respect of which property, etc. 'Cause we're just taking it out of the real estate, basically. I'm able to imagine a situation like this that someone's going abroad for two years, working hard there, and when they come after two years. I mean, all the dates went off. He no longer owns this land, in quotes, has been integrated and somewhere else he has to wipe out his land. Minister, tell me: where does such an institution exist? Because she can really handle things like a magic wand, only the question remains: what about the sacred right of property? And there are regulations for that. The basic rule is sitting down. If there really are situations like this, then you just have to go to a courthouse and not do an operation like a cleaver... Well, it's like an operation on the heart, on a living organism, done with a hammer. Well, you didn't convince me. Short-terms, that's a presumption... It's like we're giving up looking for legitimate owners here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u265	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... I don't know. It's completely different for me to understand the merge process. But we can't legalize the situation that someone manages their land on them and it's not subject to any discussion, and the only act or record about having this land, if we look at it properly, maybe we'll find it somewhere in the parish office, and it's best if we start looking in the diocesan archive. Because such situations in our country, Mr. Senator, are extremely serious. And we cannot allow such a situation that if I own land in the Ciechanov district in the municipality of Regimin, then I really need to work hard to find out who owns the land, because the exchange took place, with an apology, on the so-called. the oral agreement and in no way, although oral agreements can be legalized, it was not legalised. You're referring to a case of someone leaving for a period of two years and a trial... Mr. Senator, such a person, even if he is abroad, must be informed effectively. So you can't argue that this bill will cause such an extreme, that someone will return after 2 years of foreign residence and just turn out that he no longer owns the land.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u266	How do you tell someone who didn't leave an address? I mean, there are situations. Now Poles travel the world. But let's just leave it at that. Minister, once again, the third time, the same question: do you know the institution of presumption of possession in other Polish laws? Even in bad faith, you can settle the ground after 30 years. I'm asking because in this way, with this rule, the state simply throws you out of property, deprives you of property. This is disinheritance, I don't know what to call it, some new agricultural reform. Because this land consolidation is not an end in itself, because EU money needs to be used. The key issue is ownership. Minister, please tell me again: are there rules in the Polish legal system that the institution already uses? Is this just a complete novelty?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u267	Mr. Senator, you know very well the answer to this question: there is no such institution. [[Oh, and this is...]] But also... [[Voice from the room: Revolution.]] No, it's not a revolution, Senator. It is simply the development of a system of integration of land, postulated and by the agricultural side, and by the local government. This is a very important matter. As for this presumption, Senator... If it occurs so-called. the merge process, which means only one thing: that the plot data will simply be integrated and there will be an exchange, through the rightful owners. And that's not up for discussion. So I'm not necessarily going in the direction that the senator is going, that it's a new institution. On the contrary, she faces such extreme situations as... In the district of Nowytarsk there is an unregulated case and a process of consolidation, which has been going on since the second half of the 1950s, so far unfinished. And it is also a list of owners of individual properties shown in the files from the turn of the 19th century, from the end of the 19th century or from the 20th century, as I said, rightly, from so-called. the Galician period. This mainly concerns those regions where this division was very advanced, where farms were very intensively divided and the consolidation process is necessary to obtain specific resources.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u268	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You've mentioned the procedure here so many times, and my question is: do we really change, exclude the law, the code that Senator Czerwiński mentioned just now, or... Because the recipe will be special, as I understand it, and then it won't apply that 10 years... That's not going to happen, which means you're shutting down everything you quoted Senator Czerwiński before.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u270	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, one basic piece of information that should sound very, very clearly here, in addition to the one requested by Senator Czerwiński: the merge process does not change the title of ownership. And that should be the answer to your Senator's question. As for Senator, I am asking Senator Chróścikowski for the process itself... to improve the process itself, as the Senator knows... Well, the senator comes from a region where, as he definitely says, this process is necessary. Just getting involved in the process, shortening deadlines is also necessary. These processes can't go on forever. Farmers really do fall out in a lot of cases, so to speak, from the support mechanism instruments due to the shoulder land ownership certification. Or maybe. submit an application and it turns out that they do not have a legal title for the property in question, cannot include this property in the business plan, cannot relate it to the product, i.e. in this case with a specific objective that they pursue under a specific budgetary perspective. These are really important changes, which first of all - Like I said. They meet the expectations of farmers themselves, but also of local government. The amendment was adopted by the Sejm by 433 votes and by the Committee on Agriculture without any amendments. There was a very lively discussion, but it was more about the road lane. I am convinced that Minister Cieszyński has resolved his doubts as to what the purpose of the amendment is also in this regard. This was reported during the second reading. The submission did not raise any controversy at the joint committee meeting and at the session of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture. It was without any hesitation that your Members adopted during the Parliamentary plenary session. I am convinced that the doubt that emerged here has been disbanded by Minister Cieszyński. I have a polite request for adoption of the law so that we can simply meet the expectations of the agricultural party, as well as the local government party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u271	Thank you very much. Once again, you ask Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u272	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am consciously asking this question. You've already answered. We know perfectly well that there are land in Poland whose legal status is not regulated. I understand that you stress that the state of this land can be approved. It's about organizing these cases by merging. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u273	Yes. [[Thank you.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator very suggestively asked That's a question. To be honest, the answer is very short. I'll say one word: yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u274	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to speak on the issue of tax revenue to the budgets of local governments, which Minister Cieszyński spoke about. I have this one question about unconstitutionality and second reading, but when it comes to the law itself, I'll be honest with you, it's the first time I've ever had a ministry that cared so much about the finances of the local government. I would like to thank Minister Cieszynski for this. Of course, the bill is controversial. On the one hand, I have to play the role of self-government, which I have been for 17 years, and on the other hand, In the role of an entrepreneur, which I have also been for 17 years. You have to try to balance it all out and reconcile it with each other. Self-governments are losing money. This law seals the system, which makes entrepreneurs who already have their fees charged have to pay these fees. It is also important that local governments plan revenue in their budgets. If, at the moment, it becomes quite widespread that telecoms companies are trying to undermine the fees fixed some time ago and reduce the revenue of municipalities, it is worrying. I do not hide that I have spoken to many people, entrepreneurs on this subject, and I think that the biggest controversy is that a telecommunications company whose name I will not mention, and which before, if I am not mistaken, 2004 or 2005 has taken over most of the telecommunications infrastructure, uses its position, does not pay these fees, and new entrepreneurs who carry out the tasks have to pay these fees. It's very controversial. I do not hide that they are also related to the fact that this large operator, on the pretext of renovating its telecommunications network, is simply rebuilding it and should be paying fees. Self-governments should enforce these charges hard, proving that this is not a simple renovation of telecommunications infrastructure, but a new construction, because these are networks, telecommunication wells and everything else. If this amendment were to enter into force and if this part of the law were actually deleted, it would lose the most cities on the rights of the county. These losses are gonna be the biggest. Cities on the rights of the county and counties will lose the largest amounts. They are estimated at PLN 1 billion. I don't want to go into detail anymore, but that's the loss to local governments. On the other hand, I listened to the speech of the representative of telecommunications companies at our committee meeting, which also in what he said was right, although I think it would be possible to seal this system and clarify some new law. However, in my concern for the income of local governments, taking into account these important arguments of entrepreneurs, I tend to stand on the side of the Ministry and vote in favour of this law, although, as I said, I have quite considerable doubts about this second reading and in relation to these arguments put forward by entrepreneurs. But as I said, for the first time it happened that the ministry was so openly on the side of local governments, taking care of the interests of local governments. In addition, as was also invoked, the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission in 2019 requested a similar resolution and solution in order to clarify these doubts. The Polish County Union also calls for this law to be adopted in the form proposed by the Ministry. I hope that we will still be discussing, above all, with our colleagues in the local government regarding the final decision on voting on this issue, although, as I mentioned earlier, this is the heart of the local government and I am inclined to support this law in the care of local governments' budgets, while at the same time looking for a solution that allows these somewhat legitimate demands or the comments of the telecoms associations to take into account and introduce such solutions to seal this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Wine Products Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 585 and the report of the committee In print No 585 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Benjamin Godyla, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Law on Wine Products adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2021. The aim of the Wine Products Act adopted on 2 December is to bring Polish law into line with the existing rules on the common organisation of the market in wine introduced in the European Union. The Act comprehensively regulates issues related to the production and distribution of wine products, as well as the organisation of the wine market. Introduces e.g. changes in fermented wine drinks and the entry in the register of undertakings active in wine products. In addition, the Act establishes a new division of powers between control authorities. It's a good bill, long awaited by people who... can be said to be farmers, because it's farmers who grow vines and then make wine from it. So that the good bill, ripe, just as good wine must be ripe, the bill long awaited and good. On behalf of the committee, I ask the Senate to adopt this bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u278	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Godyla... No. Senator Bladder. I'm sorry. [[Thank you.]] I'm looking at you, Senator, and here you go. [[Yes. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u279	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's my question: was there any talk at the committee's meeting about online wine sales?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u280	Mr. Senator, yes, that's the question one of the senators asked, perhaps Senator Richard Bober. The Minister replied that these were not the powers of the Minister of Agriculture, but the powers of the Minister of Health, and of course he referred to the Minors Act there, that it was uncontrolled sales. So that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u281	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Norbert Kaczmarczyk like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u282	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is a very good project, because it is a project that really improves competitiveness among producers of fruit wines, ciders, drinking honeys, competitiveness of the wine sector. As far as the bill is concerned, it was the subject of the work of the agricultural committee in the Sejm, but also of the subcommittee. The 4th subcommittee meeting took place and 15 parliamentary amendments were adopted at the last subcommittee meeting. In the Senate, no amendments were made to the law at the committee meeting on 8 December. The most common question was the question of the availability of alcohol in connection with this law and the sale of alcohol on the Internet. Except it's not the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, it's the Ministry of Health. In fact, such an uncontrollable sale of alcohol... Well, it can't slip away from the framework of the bill. The Law on Sobriety and Against Alcoholism speaks precisely of the fact that there can be no such practices, and these records would have to be so clarified, it would have to be under such control that young Internet users do not have access to alcoholic products. However, if such control is possible in the future, e.g. thanks to the development of electronic systems, it will certainly be an opportunity to verify buyers. At this stage of development, including the Internet network, this is not possible in Poland. We don't want this kind of practice to open up Pandora's can, because that would mean wide access to alcohol for young people under the age of 18. As I say, the law primarily strengthens direct sales, strengthens competitiveness, improves competitiveness. During all kinds of parliamentary work, it met with the extraordinary kindness of parliamentarians, with extraordinary integrity in terms of their work. It is worth highlighting here the work of all parliamentary groups, of all clubs, and at the same time the great work of Fryderyk Kapinos, who put all these works together, consulted them with organisations, farmers. This is incredibly important, also in the context of the work on additional laws that allow the sale of local products on Fridays and Saturdays, weekends, sale free of charge. It is a good law that also takes into account these provisions. Thanks to these regulations, these products will be able to enter the market through classical sales, in fact through sales without tax warehouse. Incredibly important is that this law operates in such a way that it focuses primarily on direct sales. And that's how it was supposed to be. This is to be a law primarily for small producers, it is to strengthen the direct sales sector, to strengthen the supply chain in a sector that is facing many difficulties throughout Europe, all over the world. Such minor changes, combined with many projects that we are investigating in the Senate or in the Sejm, also in committees, can actually build a complex of laws on direct sales. This law is undoubtedly the case. Thank you for the substantive discussion in the Senate. This is the result of a certain consensus, indeed in committees this has been very well worked out. Let's hope there's more like that. Thank you very much and I will remain at your disposal if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u283	Senator Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u284	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I've asked questions twice at the committee meeting, but I've been remotely involved in it and maybe I've been poorly heard. Those questions, twice as if, uglylyly speaking, were blurry. Well, I mean... the bill's good. I won't praise you again, but the bill is good. There is one record, however, which, as if it did not allow those who grow fruit and produce this wine, to acquire additional fruit from the area... The law states that this is only possible in a given voivodship or in neighbouring powiats. We know that these vineyards are very few, over 300. Well, there's over 300 counties, maybe one wine cellar falls in the county. But it doesn't look like that, they're focused. Not everyone can do this because not everyone has the conditions. Sometimes the person who took the credit... There are random accidents, frosts, hurricanes, or some other hailstorms. If something destroys this cultivation, there's really nothing to make this wine from, and it can't be bought in neighboring counties or voivodships, because nobody has it, and if they have it, it's so little that they won't sell it back. There is a provision in the directive about the wine region, and we do not really have such regions. So that I would ask to take this into account, so that this region is the whole of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u285	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u286	Thank you so much for that question. If this change occurs at this process stage, it will be a technical change. This also involves a six-month notification. I, as I represent the government in this area, listened to many parliamentary debates, including discussions in subcommittees. At a certain point, I joined the work on this bill and realized that there was a consensus here. This consensus was also seen at the meeting of the Senate Committee. This is a law that is expected by producers, by farmers. Question: Are we willing to put them on another test of time just because part of the parliamentarians failed to communicate in some way in the course of this bill? Because the problem hasn't really been raised until now. Each producer can benefit from raw materials within the voivodship and neighbouring districts. The parliamentarians considered that this was sufficient. However, above all, as I say, we support small producers. And that's 50%. the product produced on the holding... In fact, you can supply yourself additionally, but in your district, in your voivodship and in neighboring districts of this voivodship So if you decide to introduce this type of change, count on the fact that also producers, farmers will expect this law, perhaps even half a year, through the notification process. The question is, in consensus, in agreement, if the bill doesn't meet the expectations that the senator is talking about... Would it not also be possible for the Sejm and the Senate to cooperate later on on a legislative initiative to build a law that meets these expectations. And now we could see how the law works in this area, adopt it in its present form. If it really wasn't enough To start work, to consult on whether this amendment is really not appropriate. I do not prejudice this, but I believe that the Sejm and the Senate had enough time and worked in such consensus that... we understood that these regulations were sufficient. That's what we're saying. Nevertheless, as I say, if I can recommend something, I would recommend adopting this law as it stands, and if you consider that the rules are insufficient Start work on possible changes. But the point is to give farmers and producers the opportunity to work under this law so that we do not wait another six months for notification.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u287	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u288	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, there is already a legal act on the manufacture and distribution of wine products, the marketing of these products and the organisation of the wine market, and there will be an additional one, because it is not repealed. As if the matter of these laws does not coincide. The question is, isn't that market overregulation? We'll never be France or Spain. Do we really need so many laws? Or, for example, In the case of, well, I don't know, a farmer... not actually a farmer, a hobbyist who owns a small vineyard, makes wine for his own sake, for friends who come and who possibly have guests on this farm, do you have to apply all these rules? Are we kind of forced to do this by EU rules, or can we simplify it? Because, as I say, this kind of agritourism shouldn't... What else should this farmer focus on?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u289	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, as far as these regulations are concerned, they actually regulate... On the one hand, the Act implements European Union rules on the organisation of the wine market, and on the other hand regulates the rules for the production and labelling of fermented wine drinks, fruit wines, cider, perry, drinking honey and aromatised cider. Thus, it is indeed the implementation of the rules, but at this point we are also simplifying and strengthening direct sales. So this is another act, but when we implement these EU rules, we are strengthening the market. Indeed, these producers are not many because, as it is estimated, about 380. Nevertheless, we want to strengthen this market. For example, cider or perry, it is in the vicinity of around 10 and 15 producers, and it is estimated that after the implementation of this law such producers may be around 50 and 60, after simplification of the said provisions. Thus, the number of producers will systematically increase. As I stress, this is not a revolutionary law, it is a law which is to strengthen direct sales in this one sector. Only by building comprehensively and working on these laws comprehensively, we are able to actually strengthen the supply chain. Because the law itself is indeed a minor change, but it really helps in this one narrow area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u291	Senator Chróścikowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question... In fact, you have already said in part that this regulation of the proposed amendment could be dealt with. Nevertheless, we know that there is a high density in the European Union and therefore regional positions have been taken out there. Well, Champagne, Bordeaux, you can name many... Whether in Italy or elsewhere... Everyone defines and respects their regions. Poland does not really have that much... Could the Minister commit himself to the fact that the amendment would be as if the second stage of the amendment were to take action as a resort, without waiting for Members, Senators, to make such preparations... This preparation itself would then be examined in order to obtain the consent of the European Commission here. Could you commit yourself to the fact that if we hadn't voted this record so we wouldn't block, as you said here, farmers, wine producers, so that they could function... Because it's not just about the bill. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: May I, Mr Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u293	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u294	Dear Senator, perhaps the good art of good parliamentarianism is to meet halfway. So we're gonna adopt a law without amendments, so we're not gonna let it happen, we're not gonna get these notifications, and I can commit that if you invite me to the Senate's agricultural committee meeting, where we're gonna process the rules... or discuss the subject, and the rules can actually come from the Ministry of Agriculture, the resort could possibly address this issue. In that case, I am committed to attending the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture in the Senate, where we will discuss this subject, we will consider all pros and cons, and this should also be covered by consultations with farmers, but also with wineries. A consensus must be reached which will lead to the fact that this amendment will indeed meet the expectations of producers and at the same time be a good law. I'm committed to attending the committee. If the rules are not harmful to any extent, we can work on them, we can think about possible work on this regulation because of what the senator said to strengthen this market. There is only another question: will we be able to build these Polish Champagnes if Poland is one wine region supplied as if globally throughout the country and not regionally? So the question is, shouldn't we consider this aspect? So I'm committed to work, but is it the project itself and the party... Well, I'm not strong enough to accept a certain solution project myself. But when it comes to work and finding out about this particular provision, I am able to commit myself to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u295	Thank you, Minister. Senator Chróścikowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u296	Minister, you can take some time, let's say, a transitional period, it could be a temporary period until we develop these vineyards of ours, and we could already give you a chance... But it's for discussion as to how we're going to proceed later... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u297	Thank you very much. [[Is there anything else I can do?]] Senator Godyla. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u298	Minister, I have such a brief question. I know there are some relationships, some associations of these Polish winemakers. Was it consulted with them while working on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: Mr. Senator, excuse me, could you repeat the question?]] As far as I know, we have associations in Poland, some other organizations bringing together people who produce wine, mainly wine. Was it consulted with them or were they invited to such conversations to introduce some of their practical things that really... What I said about this practice here...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u299	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, yes, of course the bill was consulted, but I would not like to refer to myself as the author and the person who has all these successes, I do not want to say that, in fact, to be the beneficiary of all these successes, because in fact this law was created with great support from the social side, with great support also from Mr Fryderyk Kapinos, with the support of the whole House, the Sejm, the Committee on Agriculture, the subcommittee, where it was developed in substance, then it went to the Senate and the state also adopted this law in consensus during the work of the agricultural committee. I also know that she was very kind during your conversations. So, indeed, the social side, the organisations that deal with the wine market, were a participant in these consultations, and I hope that, in any subsequent discussions, there will also be changes. Therefore, the declaration on further work is. But, as I say, please do not let our bill become the subject of another notification, i.e. that it should be adopted without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u301	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm very short. I come from the wine region, from Lubuskie voivodeship, where there are really many vineyards. They, you might say, grow like mushrooms after the rain. And with all my heart, I'm with winemakers who actually do a great job. This bill is going in the right direction, and I will, of course, vote in favour. I also confirm that the signals that come to me are that the bill is expected by the winemakers and was consulted with at least some of the winemakers. I hope that this is not the last act and step towards precisely those good changes that will promote guilt. Because wine, of course, is associated with alcohol, but it's also a matter of tradition, passion, people really live it. I invite you to the Lubuskie Voivodeship, if anyone would like to try a good wine, taste this good wine. I hope this wine gets better, because it's getting better. The winemakers actually live with their passion. That's why I thank you for this bill. I'll vote in favour, of course. I hope that this is the first step in the right direction, and the next changes in the law will make winemakers, that people who want to deal with winemaking, will be able to develop their passions further. So, of course, I will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u303	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, senators Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz, Aleksander Szwed, Sławomir Rybicki, Antoni Mężyłko and Benjamin Godyla made speeches... Oh, no, wait... yeah, Benjamin Godyla also made his statement to the record. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted jointly in writing by Senators Sławomir Rybicki, Antoni Mężyło and Benjamin Godyla. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No? Thank you... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Norbert Kaczmarczyk: We are not familiar with them.]] Oh, they're not known. Then it'll be at the committee meeting. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 582, and the report of the Commission In print No 582 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present a report on the Law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. On 8 December, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development examined the law and proposed that the law be adopted without amendment. The proposed law concerns the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, which should theoretically be completed in 2020, but since work is still underway in the European Commission to launch a new programme, it is necessary to extend the existing actions under the Rural Development Programme. The aim is to ensure that farmers, beneficiaries have continuity, especially in those activities which require such continuity. The Act amends 6 laws, introducing among others. procedures that simplify the preparation of measures to counter drought effects, which is very important, particularly in recent years. It also simplifies procedures for the exchange of correspondence between beneficiaries and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, facilitates the implementation of local development strategies by local action groups to beneficiaries under the Rural Development Programme, by amending part of the rules. As I said, the committee is asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u305	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any calls, no questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Ryszard Bartosik like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Well, come on in. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: If I may...]] Let's go to the podium. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Good.]] We'd like to see you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u306	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! Please adopt this law on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. I inform you that the law has already been passed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland without any amendments. It was also examined at the meeting of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, where no amendments were tabled. As the rapporteur has already mentioned, the Act amends 6 laws, namely the Construction Law, the Law on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, on local development with the participation of the local community, on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the framework of the RDPs for 2014 and 2020 on the financing of the common agricultural policy and the Law on Water Law. The Act extends the implementation of the RD programme 2014.2020. Expenditure incurred by the paying agency shall continue until 31 December 2025 in view of principle n+3. As this submission is already ongoing, it is necessary to process this project as soon as possible, so that the beneficiaries of the RDPs can benefit from the proposed amendments. Among them is the launch of a new action - Risk management and the payment of aid to beneficiaries. The implementation of the RDPs has a rigid time horizon as a result of European legislation, which justifies the urgency of this law. The delay in the entry into force of the Act will have a direct impact on the time limit for the selection of applications for aid under the "Preparation support" sub-measure, which in turn would result in delays in the selection of the RSR and the implementation of the LSR in the next perspective. The subsequent entry into force of the procedated law will mean a delay in the introduction of the Polish Order's priority for the Polish village, concerning the simplification of procedures related to the construction of ponds and water reservoirs. I move that the High Senate accept the bill proposed by the government. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u307	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. No such questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We need a break, three minutes. [[Senator Bober must have signed up for the discussion.]] Yeah, but you have to... Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Bober. [[Senator, you couldn't say that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u308	I told you. I was just a minute ago. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The title of the bill, which has been introduced, sounds lightly, but this law is really very important and will project on rural development until 2027 plus 3 years, which is really up to 2030. I'm only referring to art. 3 of the proposed law, which talks about local development. Indeed, there have been diametric changes to the current project as well as to projects previously implemented under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The proposed provisions create a new programme for the European Fisheries Fund under the RDP. The 2007-2013 perspective was implemented when local fishing groups functioned separately when they had their own managing authority when they had their own monitoring committee. This programme has been assessed worst of all programmes implemented in rural areas. Right now you want to go back to something that wasn't working. I will not talk about promotions, about cruises, because NIK perfectly showed what irregularities were in the years 2007 and 2013. We have experience, we know the effect that took place at the time. The fishing programme has been included in multi-fund groups as a programme that is implemented within local action groups. Such groups may be multi-fundal. The re-establishing of the managing authority, the setting up of a monitoring committee and, in fact, the deprivation of certain instruments to build local strategies and the exclusion of the fishing programme will make this area incomplete. If you consider that the measures are smaller, that the RDPs are to be implemented in a smaller area, other criteria can be introduced on the basis of which such so-called ones will no longer exist. voivodship envelopes, and it will be implemented in certain areas. But let's give it a chance for all those who want to do it and, above all, have experience. The most important is human capital, which operates in these areas, Minister, and experience. There are no leaders in the countryside, there is a shortage of people who want to introduce certain solutions, want to act within the Excluding voivodship local governments and talking about the fact that voivodship local governments as part of the funds that will be available from the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund, as well as the operational programmes of the voivodship, really... You are addressing the local authorities of the voivodship, the marshals who were in all these programs an intermediary institution, because the voivodship government could coordinate certain intentions regarding the selection of local development strategies. And this is the second element that raises the greatest doubts in this article. 3. The permission, and above all the creation of such a situation, that the municipalities are not participants, do not have to be mandatory in the local action group, is a big mistake. It cannot be that it is built or allowed to create local strategies outside the municipalities. I'll give you an example to illustrate. Well, there is a part of the county that adheres to larger urban agglomerations. There are completely different residents living there who have different needs. They are able to create a local development strategy in the area of 2 municipalities. But this local development strategy will not be consistent with the needs of completely different municipalities operating in a given district. There are other needs than here, because in fact most of the area is inhabited by people who work and are associated with a completely different activity. It is not possible, Minister, to deprive municipalities of participation... In order to ensure that mandatory records do not indicate that they are not part of or representatives of these municipalities do not participate in local development strategies, nor are they in local action groups. As another example, I will give you that if actually local governments of voivodships are to contribute funds Of those who will have at their disposal what will happen when it will be dedicated for the revitalization of the village to 5 thousand. I know there are other things that you're gonna have to be agglomerative... Because these are not the coherent things that were in the RDP and those that are available within the criteria in the operational programs of the voivodships. This can be regulated in some way, and these obstacles can be avoided. But what business will the local government have in supporting these measures of local development if it does not really influence the choice of local strategy? Because you assume that this minister will be the body that will decide what local development strategy on a given site will achieve a high number of points and will be implemented within the local action group. Indeed, there will be irreversible consequences for the implementation of these programmes. How difficult it was to introduce a multi-fund RLKS. How difficult it was to convince the rural community that it is really worth working together to build an active society, a civil society. In fact, through these regulations, you are going to read these records and bring them to such a situation that someone, once again centralistly, will decide at the top what local development strategies are to be implemented, how local action groups are to function, which will no longer have certain resources. I know that the resources are less, that there will be no funds for rural infrastructure. And I regret that these measures, which are now in the framework of the transfers by 2022, will be the last funds available to local authorities to support infrastructure investments in roads or waterworks. They are at the moment a priority in rural areas and replacing them through other actions will not result in the proper development of these areas. I will therefore make a proposal with amendments to this Article. Three to actually... and I'm asking the High Senate to accept those important amendments that will actually lead to the situation I was talking about here earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u309	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Janusz Błucherz and Alexander Swed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: More Golba.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Golba made his third speech. I would like to inform you that Senator Richard Bober and Jacek Bury have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u310	Mr. Marshal, our recommendation is negative for these conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u311	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the State Protection Service in the years 2022 to 2025, the establishment of the "Modernization Programme of the Prison Service" in the years 2022 to 2025 and the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 590 and the report of the Commission In print No 590 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Janusz Błucher, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report to the Joint Committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 2 December 2021 on the Law on the Establishment of the Modernization Programme, etc. This title is probably the longest that has appeared in the laws, maybe some covid law had a comparable long title, so that I will no longer repeat this title. The Senate Marshal sent this law to the said committees on 3 December. The joint meeting of the committee was held on 14 December 2021 and, after consideration of this law, the committees shall bring: the High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. The purpose of this Act is to introduce changes concerning the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Protection Service in the years 2022 to 2025; the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2022 to 2025; the modification of the legal status and scope of the tasks carried out by the Central Police Crime Laboratory; the new rules for appointment or appointment to the Police Service, the conduct of professional training in the Police and the appointment to the appropriate police degree of officers of other services admitted to the Police Service; the establishment of a Medal of the name of the Police Assistant Commissioner Andrzej Struja; the rules for inclusion in the service period in the Prison Service of Service or work in other entities, including other uniform services. In the history of uniformed services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, this is the third such programme. The first modernisation programme was adopted in 2007 and included tasks to be carried out in 2007. It has been extended for the years 2010 to 2011. The second programme, adopted in 2016, provided for the implementation of tasks in the years 2017 to 2020. As for previous programmes, the Act sets out the amounts of expenditure on investment projects, including e.g. construction, purchase of equipment and means of transport and increase the salaries and salaries of officials of civil uniforms. The Act and its annexes do not contain a list of projects to be implemented during the programme. The objectives for which the funds will be spent are described in the explanatory memorandum to the government draft law. Such design of the programme enables the submission of specific tasks to be carried out under the programme already in the course of its implementation. For example, I'll give you a few amounts. In MSWiA substations... and so on. More than 2 billion 380 million were earmarked for construction investments in the years 2022 to 2025, more than 900 million were allocated to transport equipment and 1 billion 676 million were allocated to the permanent reinforcement of officers. Further: to strengthen the incentive system for the remuneration of officers 3 billion 370 million; to increase the remuneration of the staff of the organizational units of the formation 619 million. In total, over PLN 10 billion was foreseen for this programme for 4 years. As for the different formations... I might mention: the police 6 billion 429 million; the Border Guard 1 billion 439 million; the State Fire Department 1 billion 947 million; the State Security Service 213 million, almost 214 million. The 2022-2025 modernisation programme provides for an increase in the number of staff in the Police, Border Guard and State Fire Department. These are new jobs that weren't in the previous programs. No new posts are foreseen for the State Protection Service in this programme. In the case of the police, new posts will be devoted to strengthening the prevention service and to filling up planned for the reconstruction of police stations. In the case of the Border Guard, new posts are intended to strengthen the protection of the eastern border of the State. Measures are foreseen for increasing the salaries of officials in the 2022-2025 modernisation programme. More than PLN 3 billion will be allocated to wage increases in all MSWiA formations, i.e. 33.6% the measures of the programme. It also provides for measures to increase the remuneration of civil servants employed in uniform services in the framework of the 2022-2025 modernisation programme. This task was included in previous programmes. These increases were allocated, as I mentioned earlier, 619 million, i.e. 6.17% the measures of the programme. This element of increases for civil servants in this law aroused the greatest interest and controversy. In the case of civilian workers, the average remuneration does not reflect the differential pay situation in this professional group, as stressed here by representatives and representatives of the trade unions of civil police workers in particular. In the case of the police, about 50% employees are members of the civil service corps and the other half are employees who are not subject to a multiplier remuneration system. Trade unions estimate that 70% after raising the minimum wage in 2022 Police staff not covered by the multiplier remuneration scheme will receive a basic remuneration derived from the minimum wage. Civil servants are currently the worst-paid group of government administrations. And that would be true, because the average salary in the police is PLN 3 000 974 in the Border Guard, PLN 4 thousand 14 in the State Fire Department, PLN 4 thousand 386 in the State Security Service, and PLN 4 thousand 840 in the State Security Service. I understand that this probably has some justification, it is certainly the case with the State Protection Service, but I think that the differences between the police, the Border Guard or the State Fire Department are significant and they are indicated by the trade union representatives of these services. Therefore, an amendment was tabled at today's committee meeting. The amendments proposed by the representatives of this group were taken over by Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. In addition to this programme there is also a programme of modernisation of the Prison Service in the years 2022 and 2025 with the amount of PLN 1 billion 860 million, i.e. funds for the entire programme, including the Prison Service, is almost PLN 12 billion. This is, of course, a very, very serious amount. The remaining amendments introduced by the Law of 2 December 2021 are not directly related to modernisation programmes and could be introduced in separate laws. Adding them to the Modernization Act allowed for circumvention of the public consultation, and the speed of examination of the Law in the Sejm prevented their thorough assessment, as indicated by the Senate Legislative Office. Among the following solutions is the police training system, which I also mentioned. Importantly, a 4-step training system for officers is being introduced, according to which a police officer will acquire basic professional qualifications, petty officers, aspirants and officers. There is also the issue of the Central Police Crime Laboratory and the Medal of the name of Deputy Police Commissioner Andrzej Struja. The addition of this medal is the result of the parliamentary amendment at second reading. It will be awarded to police officers for taking their own lives or health outside the service or during the operation of saving lives, human health or property. Receiving this medal will involve raising the pension base by 1%. A few more sentences on the progress of the legislative work. Well, the bill is a government project treated as an urgent project. It was brought to the Sejm on 26 November 2021. The first reading of the draft law took place on 1 December 2021 at the meeting of the Sejm Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. On the same day, the committee presented its report. The second reading of the project took place on the same day at the 40th meeting of the Sejm. In view of the 8 amendments tabled, the draft was again addressed to the committee. Subsequently, on 2 December 2021, the Sejm passed a law rejecting all amendments tabled at second reading. 430 Members voted in favour of the bill, against 5, 1 abstention. During the work of the joint committees, the Senate's chief legislature, Mrs Beata Mandylis, presented very detailed comments on the bill and tabled 12 proposals for amendments, which were taken over by President Alexander Pociej. Practically all were accepted by the government and then unanimously voted by all present senators. The discussion, as I have already mentioned, has been dominated by representatives of trade unions of civil servants. They drew attention to the very difficult situation precisely as regards the remuneration of those services that are oscillating around the minimum wage. On the union side, there were so many voices that in order for uniformed services to perform their tasks optimally, including the current tasks at the eastern border, they must be guaranteed food, accommodation and the execution of many other logistics projects, and this is what civilian workers do without which tasks could not be done well or optimally. During the discussion the Senators Seweryński, Kwiatkowski, Bury and Frankiewicz spoke; they also tabled amendments. The most extensive amendment, together with the corresponding quota calculations concerning the increase in salaries of civil servants of the Police and Border Guard, was reported by Zygmunt Frankiewicz. The amendment received a majority at the joint committee meeting; in the vote 9 senators were in favour, 4 against. Finally, the joint committees accepted as many as 16 amendments. The majority were accepted by the government, in addition to the amendments concerning the increase in salaries for civil servants. According to the calculations contained in Annex 2 and the calculations are quite accurate In fact, they increase the remuneration offered to civilian workers almost twice. Finally, the committees ask the Senate to adopt this law together with the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u313	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Wąsik wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the senator very much for his very comprehensive report and very cross-cutting presentation of the bill. I would just like to add from myself that this bill is another, the third such act. The first author, if I recall, was a sleeper. Władysław Stasiak; we remember him today on this occasion. It was the first big financial injection for Polish uniformed services, remembered by police officers, border guards, officers of the then BOR, by fire department officers. This first law echoed enormously, and the Government of Law and Justice adopted the second Modernization Act in 2016, which has been in force since 2017. I will admit that the important elements of this law were both wage issues and investment issues. We wanted to continue the custom of modernising uniform services through such a specialized law, which is why I stand here today and represent the Polish government before the High Senate. This bill is expected by uniforms. It was agreed with trade unions in the pay sphere, and we also spoke with civil unions. I would like to stress that there are also civilian increases here. I would also like to emphasise one thing. The issue of civil increases was important in the discussion both in the Sejm and in the Senate committee. In 2015, when we embraced governments, civilians in uniform services... The average remuneration in their case was PLN 2 000 900. After the adoption of this law, the average salary will be about PLN 4 thousand 700, that is an increase of PLN 1 thousand 800. We are aware that this is still not going to be a very excessive remuneration, and in many cases it may be appropriate to increase it, but I would like to stress, High Senate, that the government is taking care of this group of employees and this increase in salaries will be greater than for other groups of administrations. Let me remind you that this year, I mean. From January 1st, the administration will have a raise by only No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 4.4%. In the case of these civilian workers, the increase in wages, of course, here we start from a lower ceiling, that's about 11%. I would like to stress that I am in contact with representatives of civil workers' trade unions. Not tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow I have a meeting with them, we're gonna talk about the future, about what we can do to make their wages better. We are aware that modernization of uniformed services is not only an investment, because in order for us to have good services, there must be satisfied officers, satisfied workers who have economic security and can perform their duties well. If they are satisfied, these formations will certainly work better, we have no doubt about it, and the government, and the trade unions speak with one voice here. Of course, the economy has its rights, the Minister of Finance has its limitations, gave us limits and we had to fit into certain limits. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I'd be happy to answer all your senators' questions. It seems that I don't have to add much here because Senator Bubbles has presented these issues incredibly professionally.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u315	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no questions for you, Minister. Thank you very much... [[They are, I have a question.]] Oh, here they are. [[I thought there was a list, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: There is no list.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u316	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to ask for increases for civil police personnel or the State Fire Department. You said these increases would take place in the course of this new modernisation bill, so that the average would ultimately be... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: 4 000 700.]] 4,000 700 zlotys. I just want to make sure that these increases start to be granted to civil servants of the police or the fire department next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u317	Yeah, we've been planning a raise since January 1. From the budget bill, it's going to be 4.4%. salaries, from the Modernization Act. 356 zł with the annual prize. We have also managed to find the means to raise them to the next lowest one, which will enter on 1 January, by means of additional measures. In their case, those who earn the least, this is probably the biggest percentage increase, because from 1 January they will have a raise of 160 PLN from the last lowest to the next, plus 4.4% , plus 356 zł. Of course, I'm talking about average amounts. With the annual prize it will actually be almost 700 PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u318	Thank you, Minister. Senator Blanket again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u319	Minister, in my speech on the act on voluntary firefighters, I spoke about the benefits of this modernisation bill, which ends this year, because there were also funds for voluntary firefighters, in the amount of PLN 0.5 billion. I would like to ask if this new modernisation act also contains resources for TSOs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u320	No, the new modernization bill, Senator, doesn't have the resources. We are financing this from other sources, but I would like to assure you that this year's expenditure will not be less than last year and last year. In any case, funding is provided from another budget source, including extra-budget funds, from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, including EU funds. So that this funding will be very good, at a high level, not lower than before.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u321	Thank you. Senator Czudowska signed up for the question? [[To perform.]] To speak, to debate. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank our Legislative Office, which has found quite a lot of things that we could improve in this suddenly prepared bill. I would also like to thank the government side, which has adopted all these recommendations. I'm sure that's what makes this bill better. I do not fully agree with the Minister in this respect that this law has been adopted in its entirety by everyone to whom it is directed, because we have had statements, well, such strong from the trade unions, concerning civil workers. Hence are the amendments that Mr Frankiewicz has tabled and which have been supported by the committee, leading to the fact that these inequalities can be corrected by the senate stage, without waiting until next year. Important, necessary bill. It is a pity that in this one small fragment these inequalities have not been overcome, hence the quite strong negative voice in this regard, I stress, only in this respect, from the trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u323	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Dear guests! As the rapporteur said, also the Minister, this bill was expected, it was monitored by uniformed staff to the end. Already after the meeting of the Senate Committee, proposals and requests were received to improve this mechanism, to improve this law, in particular by defining the case of appointing and appointing police officers to higher posts, and to identify cases of mandatory dismissal of police officers from professional training or to return to these trainings. The problems presented by the police show that it is not just about the money that is involved in uniformed services, uniformed staff in this bill. Although we all understand that a decent wage is a condition of satisfaction and well-managed responsibilities. I would therefore like to present 3 amendments to this law, which I recommend to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u325	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Durlak, Senator Błaszczyk, Senator Wcisła, Senator Janusz Pęcherz and Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz made speeches in the minutes. You have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Dorota Czudowska. [[The voice from the room: Did it?]] Yes, she did, she did. [[Yes.]] Good. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: This is us...]] If he knows of course... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: It is us, Mr. Marshal, who will refer to the committee.]] You mean on the committee? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Because, as I understand, there is necessarily a committee meeting after submitting proposals. Yes?]] Well, there's gonna be a committee meeting, yeah, but... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Yes, yes. We'll take it up at the committee meeting.]] Good. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office. The text of the Act is contained in print No 588 and the report of the Commission In print No 588 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u326	Thank you again, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The bill submitted to the Senate aims to establish a uniform national police organizational unit, the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime, and to set up a new police service responsible for identifying, preventing and combating cybercrime and investigating and prosecuting the perpetrators of cybercrime. I would like to add that, during the meeting of our committee, we considered questions from the committee or individuals that are currently scattered at various police headquarters, dealing with cybercrime, will be resolved. We've been assured not that the best officers will move into this newly formed unit, but all the units that are at different police headquarters today will remain intact and no one will be fired. The Act provides for the allocation from the state budget of funds for the establishment of a cybercrime control service of a total amount of 4 billion 430 million, from funds included in the State budget's special reserves. This is to ensure the modernization of equipment and equipment, the possibility of building the headquarters of the new police organization unit, I would like to add that in Warsaw and to strengthen the incentive system of plenipotentiaries against and combating cybercrime. Here I would like to add that these salaries, which you are probably going to talk about, are going to be a little higher or much higher, are related to the specialization of these officers, but they all need to speak English fluently. This is a very specific action and the obligations of these officers are specific. These salaries are therefore to be higher. The law introduces significant changes to the recruitment procedure for the police service. That's what the article is about. 25. These amendments aim to enable the management and conduct of qualification proceedings against applicants for admission directly to the service of the Cybercrime Control Unit. As I said earlier, the stage of the qualification process in the form of knowledge testing, IT skills, IT systems, ICT systems, ICT networks and knowledge of foreign language in this field is added. I would also like to add, as regards my report, that amendments have been tabled. The amendments recommended by the committee for adoption by the Senate were proposed by the SKOK, and these amendments were approved by the Government, and the Government agreed to make these amendments, as well as by our Legislative Office, which proposed 2 amendments. They are technical amendments that have also been approved by the government side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u327	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Senator Zdrojewski, remotely.]] Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u328	Mr. Senator, was there an assessment of the current security situation... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, you're interrupting.]] Maybe it'll be easier without the video. [[Yes, turn off the video.]] I would like to ask the senator if there has been an assessment of the security features of the government in the last six years. My question is related to a series of leaks from Mr. Dworczyk's mailbox. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to know whether the responsibility of high officials to protect their mailboxes from possible external attacks was also considered on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u329	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u330	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. I must answer that there was no talk about this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u331	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Maciej Wąsik like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? If so, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Pociej very well presented here both the course of the discussion and the main principles of the law. I would just like to add that the Cybersecurity Act divides the cybersecurity area into three major divisions: cybersecurity in the area for which the Internal Security Agency is responsible, cybersecurity in the military area for which the Ministry of National Defence, military cybernetic forces, and cybersecurity in the largest civilian area for which the NASK is responsible. The Act is strengthening the civilian area of ordinary, simple people. It's supposed to be a service dedicated to prosecuting crimes that are directed towards them. That's why we create it at the police station, which is why we don't do special services, but we want it to be a police formation, a uniform formation, which will be closest to ordinary people, which will be very effective in dealing with such phenomena as we have at the moment, i.e. false text messages with links to courier shipments. That kind of news gets to a lot of us, somebody's trying to trick us. These police services will prevent, counteract and prosecute this kind of crime. I believe that this is an important element, which in some ways complements the Modernization Act. The CBZC even in its name refers to the Central Bureau of Investigation, a formation which was established at the end of last millennium as a formation dedicated to combating mafia crime, organised crime. Of course, to a great extent, she managed to eliminate this crime, break it down, minimize it. We all probably remember what were the problems in the times of the Pruszkow Mafia, the Wołomia Mafia and other mafias that worked or even panned out in Poland. Right now, among others. Thanks to the specialized police formation, there are no such problems in this area, so we want the new formation to be based in some way on the idea of the CBI. Of course, I would like to stress that in addition to the appropriate qualifications... In the case of this formation there will be a need for large salaries. The bill provides for this and provides funding for officers who pass... I hope that the formation will quickly reach the expected position of 1 thousand 880 officers. Of course, it will have its own recruitment system and its own training system, because in this formation physical fitness or the ability to intervene on the street will be less important. Much more important will be software skills, cyberworld mobility and language skills. We ask the Senate to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u333	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see... Oh, there's a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u334	One short question à about language skills. I understand that there will be a need for skills in this area as well, I would call it general, Cyrillic, Arabic languages, etc., and not just foreign languages commonly taught in our schools. What do you think, is there going to be a problem with that? With IT skills it will be smaller, and with language skills it can be bigger. It's about these specific languages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u335	To my knowledge, programming language is English. This is the basic language. Of course, in today's world, the languages you have mentioned are also extremely useful. I would like to assure you that our formations have officers who use these languages. As you know, Arabic is extremely important in recent months. Please be calm. And the English exam is because this whole area of cybernetics, programming, etc. This is the English language.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u336	Thank you very much. [[One more thing, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u337	Someday these officers with very high qualifications will be discharged. Will they somehow be obliged to, I would call it, not using the knowledge and skills they possess, in a widely understood competition, no matter what they call it? Will there be any special regulations in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u338	There are no special rules in this regard, but I do not see any obstacle to such officers being involved in other cybersecurity activities after they have finished their duties. Let me remind you that every citizen must act according to the law. I'm sure you mean the senator if we're worried they're gonna cross over. There is always such danger, there is always such danger in all services. That's why internal services work. The state's secret is a huge commitment, it's criminal to reveal it, and we have to keep that in mind. Well, of course there's always a threat in all the services, and it's not just us, it's all over the world. But that's what internal services are for, and that's what morale is for, to make such temptations as little as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u339	Moving on to the competition... I think there's a criminal code at stake here. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u340	Of course, there will be a criminal code... But I would like, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, to stress that, among other things, we are designing high wages so that we can earn decent money at work for you. That's what we need. We're not gonna bring in people with that kind of skill when the market offers two or three times as much pay. This law offers solutions to give these people the right pay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u341	Minister, what are the salaries? Can you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u342	The salary allowances for service in this formation are between 70 and 130% basic salary. So that's rather attractive wages. This can also be added to the possible remuneration under the Law, which is led by Minister Cieszyński. I'm talking about a cybersecurity bill, this cybersecurity fund that's supposed to fund specially educated specialists in individual government units instead of an external fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u343	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u344	Minister, a quick question. Will this institution, or will this service use Pegasus? [[What?]] Will the service be equipped with a program that, well, we all know... [[Oh, Pegasus, I didn't catch that.]] Will she use Pegasus and what rules?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u345	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u346	I don't know exactly what you're talking about. Well, all I'm going to say is that the forms and methods of operation are generally classified, as the senator should know, and they're certainly very specialised. I'm not able to answer with what instruments. whether the programs will be used by the designed service, and even if I could... the senator knows perfectly well that the forms and methods of operating are classified.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u347	Thank you. There are no more questions... [[Senator Czerwinski's voice:]] Excuse me, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I don't see you because...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u348	Oh, yeah, I'm a mickey. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The military has its own IT high school. Are you guys gonna make this kind of... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Excuse me, what does the army have?]] I'm sorry, maybe I was wrong. He has schools where he educates young computer scientists. Will you also try to educate from a small age? Because here you really need to have very specific, selected skills. The point is, for example. With the help of scholarships to catch the best, these talents, and then bring them into service.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u349	Mr. Senator, we're not planning on catching them since we were young, but we're planning to provide an opportunity to get a proper education at the police school in Szczytno. It's going to be the kind of school that's supposed to run these kinds of courses, very specialized, and give this opportunity to young talented people who want to acquire these skills, serving in the police, so that they can achieve these goals. We are currently designing a major change in education, in the modernization law, a large expansion of schools, also the Szczytna specialization including top-class education There will be no basic courses there. We design it so that Szczytno is a school in which courses will be conducted giving specialized knowledge to CBZC policemen. [[That's up from high school, I understand.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u350	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions... [[Can I still, Mr. Marshal?]] Oh, but there's a question. Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I didn't? Good. Thank you, Minister. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I still have...]] Come on, Mr. Senator... [[Voice in the room: No, round of questions closed.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go. Minister, there's still a question. [[A voice from the hall: How about the senator too?]] This is Senator Sekuła first. Now that we're giving this opportunity... Senator Secula, and then Senator Comfort. And the rest of us can get ready. [[No, I've already resigned, Mr. Marshal.]] Good. Thank you. Senator Comfort, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u351	Minister, very briefly. I'd like to ask you again to assure me that these cybersecurity departments that exist right now... I would like to request confirmation that they will not be eliminated. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: If you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u352	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u353	The departments will be wound up and will be transformed into a service that will have a vertical character. Well, it's gonna be CBZC. But the servants there will certainly not be released from duty. Civil servants who serve there will also not be released from service. These departments will be used as a basis for building the CBZC structure, that is obvious, and there will certainly be no one in connection with the adoption of this law exempt from service. [[Thank you very much. It was a little different at the committee meeting that we understood that they would not be liquidated. Now I understand that they will be absorbed, transformed... thank you.]] Yeah, at the CBZC.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u354	Thank you, Minister. I bow... No, I'm not bowing yet. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you.]] And I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u355	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of cyber crimes in Poland is growing avalanchely. There's not a day that we don't learn about attacks from different places around the world, often from Russia. State institutions are exposed to cyber attacks, including critical infrastructure, companies and single citizens. In 2013, there were 18 000 200 preparatory proceedings in such cases and 53 000 700 in 2020. We're talking about the so-called. false alarms, destruction of IT data, disruption of their processing or operation of IT systems. We're talking about paedophiles looking for their victims online, darknet, data theft or account cleaning, and you can lose your entire life savings at once. You can spy on us even on our own phones. At first glance, the amendment of the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office seems to be a great idea. The police are to be equipped with the best, strictly specialized instruments and competences to fight cybercrime. A new uniform police unit will be established for this purpose, i.e. Central Office for Combating Cybercrime with its registered office in Warsaw, which will deal only with problems related to the identification, prevention and fight against cybercrime committed using the IT system, the ICT system or the ICT network, the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of this crime and the support of other police agencies in identifying, preventing and combating cybercrime. As stressed, this service is dedicated to ordinary citizens harmed by cyber criminals. They will be able to call 112, file a complaint and expect that, for example. Breaking into your email account will be effectively prosecuted. As many as 1 000 800 new jobs will be created at the Central Cybercrime Control Office. The expected time to reach full operational capacity is 2025. In the first year, some 300 officers will be admitted to service and in the following three years 500 each year. The selection procedure will be conducted by the Central Office Chief, appointed and dismissed by the Minister for the Interior and subject to the Chief of Police. Officers admitted to the new service will not have to undergo tests of knowledge and physical fitness, but only a psychological test. The most important criterion will be their information technology knowledge, knowledge about modern ICT technologies and knowledge of foreign language in these fields. After a successful completion of recruitment, the person admitted to the service in the central office will not have to undergo the process of professional adaptation in the police prevention unit or the self-prevention unit. Officers of the Central Office will be fully entitled to carry out operational and exploratory, investigative and administrative activities resulting from the Police Act. Employed IT specialists will receive a salary higher than the average in the Police, ranging from PLN 10,000 to PLN 15 thousand net, depending on experience. Officials are supposed to be entitled to permanent allowances of 70 The average payback in the police. One might ask whether these rates will actually be competitive compared to commercial rates and whether this work will be interesting and attractive enough to attract the best specialists. In the initial phase of the creation of the Central Cybercrime Office, it will form its basis, as I have already mentioned, about 300 officers currently serving in the Office for the Fight against Cybercrime of the Police Headquarters and currently dealing with the fight against cybercrime cells of voivodship commands or the Police Capital Command. This is intended to ensure a smooth transition from the current cybercrime model to the legal solutions. The question is, will all these officers find a job in the new unit? And if so, is there no risk that, due to better working conditions and much higher wages in the central office, other units will be wound up? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The maximum limit of expenditure from the state budget for the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office in the next 10 years is PLN 4 billion 400 million, from PLN 117 million in 2022 to the largest amount of PLN 765 million in 2025. 450 million zlotys were planned to build the headquarters of the Central Cybercrime Bureau. It is worth asking ourselves: Isn't the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office just a waste of money, an unnecessary multiplication of institutions and warm jobs? At the moment we already have many units in Poland which, although to varying degrees, deal with cybersecurity. I will mention, for example, the Central Police Investigation Office, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the National Tax Administration, the Military National Cyberspace Security Centre, the Response Team to Computer Security Incidents, the Office for Combating Cybercrime of the Police Headquarters and the offices that deal with this problem in the voivodeship commands. So what is the purpose of creating state hacking taking the form of a new specialty for Internet surveillance? Well, surveillance, because it will be able, using computer devices or programs, to access information not intended for it, either by breaking or bypassing electronic, magnetic, computer or other specific security features, or by accessing all or part of the information system. The Central Office for Combating Cybercrime will therefore receive the possibility of breaking any security, in the majesty of the law and under the motto of the fight against cyber attacks, e.g. Cloud drives. This tool can open the door to radical violations of civil rights and freedoms, to control insubordinate citizens, citizens or against the power of the media. The police will have access to many data, including those not intended for them and not related to the subject of control, e.g. to the personnel and payroll records of the observed company, private e-mail correspondence or journalistic investigations and secret informants. Why should we believe that the proposed ethical and legal supervision of these powers of police will be sufficient? After all, many NGOs have long signaled that surveillance activities in our country are not subject to real control. It should also be borne in mind that the central office will not only carry out investigations but also advanced operational activities such as police provocation or controlled purchase. Although the police must agree to the operation carried out by the Attorney General and the Court, there is the so-called operation. A five-day drive, so it's really urgent. In such a situation, the Attorney General's consent will suffice. The application to the court is post factum, and even if the court rejects it and orders it to destroy all the data collected, such a service will be able to familiarize itself with it. It may be worth thinking about linking the new service with the European institutions pursuing cybercrime, so that new standards can be introduced and its action more effectively. Perhaps in order to ensure the operation of the Polish prosecutor's office, we should finally become a member of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u356	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u357	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Once again, thank you for your understanding about my question raised with some delay. I would like to say very briefly that our Legislative Office, in its detailed comments and proposals for amendments, has pointed out to us that the amendments contained in the provisions of the Article. Article 4 and Article 6 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply from the date of entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Points 1 and 2 and Article 10 17 were amended during the second reading of the draft law and in accordance with Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution and the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal, which will ultimately be included in the Act, should go the full way of the three readings procedure and must therefore be covered by the matter of the project submitted to the Sejm. There have been proposals to table amendments deleting all these articles. Since the government has assured us that they are necessary and very important, I will not make such an amendment. However, there is a problem of writing in the article. 20, or an article on entry into force. This article reads: the law enters into force 14 days after the date of the announcement, except those added in a manner that we believe is incompatible with the spirit of the Constitution. Article 4 and Article 6 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply from the date of entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Points 1 and 2 and Article 10 17 which shall enter into force on the day following the day of the notice. So we are dealing with the situation that the law is not yet in force, and some of its provisions are already in force. In our opinion, this is something we cannot accept. Unless, of course, I'm addressing Minister Wosia here. Tomorrow at the committee meeting, or a little before it, if the Minister can find some time, the Minister will show that there is a very important interest in leaving such a provision. I'm willing to discuss it. As of today, Senator Secula and I have tabled an amendment that in Article. 20 of the Act shall be deleted except for Article. 4, 6, etc., etc. I'm open for discussion tomorrow. However, today, because of the legislative process and the legislative clarity, we are making such an amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u358	Thank you. And please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I read the draft law on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office, I conclude that the main idea of the author of the changes that this law introduces in the current legal order is the concept of security considerations. It's a word that comes up very often and is basically supposed to end any discussion and turn off critical thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the case. One door introduces mechanisms that are otherwise right, because they are connected with this security of the state, but on the other hand they introduce mechanisms which are to deprive the individual, the citizen, of the sense of security and freedom. I would like to ask why the article is being amended. 291 §2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and how this relates to cybercrime. This is exactly what Senator Pociej mentioned: that such important changes, changes in codes, which should be preceded by a very long and thorough legislative process, go through the codification committee, are introduced at second reading without any consultation, without explaining the consequences for each of us. If I am reading this correctly, it is necessary to equip the National Public Prosecutor's Office with the possibility to occupy the assets of every citizen at my discretion and without connection to the ongoing proceedings. If that's the intention, then that's not the safety issue. Second line. By the way, we are trying to amend the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and allow the prosecutor to keep bank accounts of each Pole not for six months but for a year. Why? Because it's enough prosecutorial suspicion that someone can launder money or finance terrorism. I ask, where is the presumption of innocence? After all, lack of access to finance for a year can mean bankruptcy for any entrepreneur. If he wants to be put in the hands of the D.A. Which, let's not hide, today has a very political weapon of power, the right to harass uncomfortable citizens, that's... I am thinking very strongly whether we should, however, propose that these rules be removed. But, as I understand it, tomorrow all our doubts will be resolved by the ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u360	Thank you, Senator. And I would like the floor of Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! My political formation has always stressed that it is behind a country that is efficient, that it is behind a country that is strong, that it is behind a country that effectively defends its citizens against various forms of crime. And because it was not clear in this Chamber, from this speaker, that as senators we are grateful to the Ministry for preparing this project and we are grateful that we will have new tools to prosecute those who should be afraid... 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, there are people like that in our country. This is a group of criminals of different categories. That are constantly looking for areas where we, citizens living honest and working, cheating, stunting, building various areas of deception. And, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is trying to remedy this. This law significantly strengthens the efficiency of the state in an area that is constantly and very dynamic. This bill is some kind of attempt to discuss with the criminal world, which is incredibly difficult, incredibly clever, because it moves in a very immeasurable area. This immeasurable area is cyberspace, but this immeasurable area of cyberspace has very tangible consequences for us as citizens, for our families, for our children. Because this law also changes the categories of crimes but also e.g. for banking operations. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say that thank you very much, Minister, for the bill prepared, thank you very much for the fact that we can defend our country more effectively against these criminal areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u362	Thank you, Senator. And now I want to give myself the floor. We have met here many times with the fact that the government of PiS, on the occasion of various laws, also with covid laws, has introduced other changes, e.g. changes to the Penal Code at second reading. And it turns out that this was also the case in the case of the Law amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for the Control of Cybercrime, on which I have no objections, and I have reservations that the law needed but also dealt with as a matter of urgency is being added to the confiscation of property, i.e. from a completely different area, a code area which requires some consideration and determination of what such changes will have the effect. Everything can be said to be about combating crime, reducing crime, and this is done on the basis of avoiding first reading and therefore violating the constitutional principle of three readings in the Sejm. That is why I do not really understand what we are talking about with Minister Wos, who is well aware of this situation. I think these records need to be deleted. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko and Mieczysław Golba have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. You have submitted legislative proposals to Senator Alexander Pociej and Senator Sekuła. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: At the committee meeting.]] At the committee meeting. Good. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 56 to 21 minutes 00]] We're continuing our deliberations. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The text of the Act is contained in print No 576 and the Commission's reports In prints No 576 A and No 576 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Aleksandra Chybicka, to present a report... [[Voice from the room: Alicia.]] Alicia, I'm sorry. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u363	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present on behalf of the Environment Committee a report on the committee's meeting on which we discussed the law on amending the Forests Act and the Nature Conservation Act. This law responds to the European Commission's letter of formal notice No 2018/ 2208. In its request and subsequently in its reasoned opinion, the European Commission indicated that Article. 14b Law of 28 September 1991 on forests and Regulation of the Minister of Health of 18 December 2017 on the requirements of good practice in the field of forest management, so-called. code of good practice, cause Poland to violate... And here are a number of laws and these shortcomings, including the article. 9 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds, i.e. so-called. Birds Directives. In the European Commission's view, the current provision of the Forest Law of 28 September 1991 constitutes a broad derogation from the prohibitions on strictly protected species, in particular species subject to strict protection under Union directives, since it excludes the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 April 2004. In short, the point is that the right to the protection of wild birds, but also the protection of other animals, has been violated. On 8 December, a meeting of the Environment Committee was held at which the legislators did not raise any objections to the bill presented. The Senators of Jadwiga Rotnicka and Janusz Błucherz have tabled 3 amendments to the said Act. I won't read these amendments, they're in the Senate file. However, the vote on these amendments did not take place because there was also a proposal for the bill to be adopted without amendments. And so it happened that the bill was adopted without amendments, with 8 votes to six. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u364	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u365	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Four amendments were presented at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. This meeting took place today. The first amendment concerns the re-entry, after the removal by the Sejm, of Article. 14b. 1 concerning the obligation of forest owners and the arrangements for the exercise of these obligations by owners. The government did not accept this amendment, but the members of the extraordinary committee adopted it unanimously with 15 votes in favour. Amendment two was about... The second amendment was withdrawn, but I think I should take a moment, because it's quite important. This amendment concerned the elimination of the contradiction with European Union law identified by the European Commission in its complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union on 15 July this year. In this complaint, the Commission identified a lack of judicial review of forest installation plans. We also very often hear criticisms from NGOs that there is no such control. At present, in accordance with applicable law, the decision approving the plan for the installation of the forest is not brought before the administrative court, but according to the current Polish Convention and regulations of EU law, society should have access to courts in environmental matters. The government, of course, opposed this amendment. This amendment will be prepared by means of a legislative initiative in accordance with Article. 69 Senate Rules of Procedure. The third amendment, but the second in the case of amendments to the committee, concerns the introduction of rules that require good forest management practices. They define the way the forest owner behaves when preparing, implementing and monitoring the impact of forest management activities and impose obligations on the forest owner. The proposed amendment improves the conservation standards for forest management in the field of forest biodiversity restoration and conservation, while preserving the fluidity of forest management. The government was against this amendment. The members of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs unanimously adopted this amendment with 17 votes in favour. And amendment four, but the third adopted by the committee. In view of the law proposed by the government, it would be allowed inter alia. disturbing the species listed in Annex II of the Habitats Directive and not covered by Annex IV. These annexes relate to some very rare species. This could constitute a breach of the Habitats Directive. It should therefore be considered appropriate to reinstate that provision in that Annex. At the same time, it is appropriate to replace in the words "Annex II' and "IV' the coherent "and/or '. This amendment will conclude that it will be sufficient for the protection provided for in this provision to be included in at least 1 of the 2 Annexes to the Habitats Directive in Annex II or IV. In this case, the government did not accept the amendment either, but the committee unanimously adopted the amendment with 17 votes in favour. The entire law, together with the 3 amendments adopted, adopted by the members of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, adopted 17 votes and recommended that it be adopted by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u366	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I'm addressing Minister Edward Sulphur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! If you don't mind, I'd like to say a few sentences about this regulation, which is being conducted in the Senate today. The issue contained in this draft law, concerning the Law on amending the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation, is, for the good of the matter, an attempt to solve the problem which involves the interpretation of the provisions of the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation, and generally concerns the interpretation of provisions relating to habitat protection and protection of birds, i.e. the Birds and Habitats Directives. I must say that on this point the Ministry, the Polish Government was in a dispute, and the case was brought before the European Court of Justice. It can be said that as a Polish side we have tried to avoid this situation and, I say, we have shown a far-reaching willingness to cooperate. I can say that we have been in constant dialogue with the European Commission so as not to unnecessarily escalate the dispute, which in fact is a legal dispute, because everything we are talking about, i.e. these principles of protection, today, I can say, Forests are implementing in accordance with the Code of Good Practice. Indeed, what we have today is written in the article. 14b of the Forest Act, the European Commission considered too broad a derogation. We have gone in this direction to actually satisfy these doubts and to really agree to the proposal that the Commission has proposed that the provision that is in the Forests Act today should be included in the Nature Conservation Act, so that the Nature Conservation Act regulates all conservation issues. We also wanted to avoid this allegation that this provision is too broad a derogation. We have also proposed a new wording of the Good Practice Regulation. I can say that both the provisions of this law and the provisions of the proposed regulation, which is an annex to this law, the European Commission has accepted and there have been no reservations. Therefore, we believe that at this moment any attempt to add additional provisions to this law could undermine the process of consultation with the European Commission or the process which is currently being carried out before the European Court of Justice. Therefore, the government's position is that the Senate should not accept these amendments, especially since the opinion on the Law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation, the opinion of the Senate legal office is positive. The Senate Legislative Office analysed the entire law and did not raise any legislative objections to the bill submitted. Therefore, the government is in office, the Ministry is in the position that these amendments should not be adopted. The Committee on the Environment of the Senate also did not accept these amendments, but indeed there were new proposals at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. The one that is most controversial, as it were, is trying to transfer all the principles of good forest practices to the law. Well, we think it's a little bit of a damage to the law, because there's a reference in the bill that we're proposing, which indicates that we're going to negotiate with the European Commission through the negotiation of a document that is going to be a regulation. As for PUL-i, I would like to make it clear that indeed this matter of plans to plant forests is outside the regulation of this law. As far as plans for forest equipment are concerned, we are at such a stage that Poland has taken a position on this issue, we are simply in dispute about this matter and proceedings are under way. That is why I do not want to provide additional information on this at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u368	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the government relating to this agenda. No questions. I'm opening a discussion. Minister, I would ask you to... [[No. It's okay, Minister.]] But if you ask the senator, I'll ask the Minister to speak. There you go. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs has introduced far-reaching amendments to this law. You claimed that this was a transfer of the law of the rank of regulation directly to the law. That's how I figured it out. And we are in a dispute with the European Commission, as I understand it, also on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u370	As far as the code of good practice is concerned, it is now. This bill we're investigating is supposed to at least make sure we're not in dispute in this area. [[So there's a possibility...]] This area at present we have with the Commission in fact agreed, i.e. the wording of the law plus the regulation as a reference and this kind of solution the Commission has accepted as much as possible... [[So the Commission has adopted what we have in the law and the regulation. Yes?]] ...as well as this solution, it is a reference to the regulation. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u371	We... I mean... Not us, but our Extraordinary Committee on Climate One because the other doesn't It is trying to change that, so to speak, the gmera under this law, with arrangements that are already agreed with the European Commission. The question is, what can this do? Can this result in e.g. Do we still have time to impose penalties on Poland if we continue to do so?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u372	The problem is, Mr Senator, that the European Commission can recognise that our assurances that we want to resolve this problem legally are unbelievable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u373	I understand that... [[Mr. Senator...]] If you don't mind, one last sentence and one last question. [[Ask questions. Don't have a dialogue.]] Good. Did you at the meeting of the Climate Committee make those who wanted to make these amendments aware of what they did?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u374	All these arguments were indeed submitted to the committee. The Commission simply accepted them. I don't get into this decision-making process anymore, because it's committee law. We, on the legal side and on the substantive side, presented the whole issue at the committee's meeting, but the committee proposed an amendment which you are proceeding with.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u375	Senator Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u376	Minister, since when does the government negotiate regulations with the Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u377	In this respect, as far as good practice is concerned, all the provisions on habitat conservation and species conservation are consulted with the Commission and this exchange of views on this matter was on our side. I understand that as far as the senator's question is concerned, the intention is, since when. It is difficult for me to answer such a question. In any case, as far as habitat conservation is concerned, these issues are agreed. [[Do you negotiate with the European Commission the provisions of the regulation?]] Well, please bear in mind that the laws and regulations in this case constitute the whole of the provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u378	Thank you. Senator Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u379	Minister, you know perfectly well... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: We refer here to specific protective tasks that we must perform in accordance with the Birds and Habitats Directive.]] You know very well that the regulations do not negotiate with the European Commission and that in regulations you can change some of the points that we have introduced here. [[Senator, ask me a question. Now is not the time for dialogue.]] I have a question: what exactly are the elements of the regulation that you are negotiating with the European Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u380	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u381	The whole regulation, because please note that this derogation concerns a number of actions relating to forest management. Starting with how in protected areas... or in general how species protected in this forest management are primarily to be protected... So as not to make these habitats or species worse. So here we are talking about actions such as: clarification of how to mark sites of such species; clarification of issues concerning strategic environmental impact assessment; identification of actions that can cause deliberate killing and destruction of species; clarification of the distance of trees from lakes, etc. When you get the wood or, let's say, the term... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...the average level of the number of dead trees per hectare of forest area. These are all elements that are contained in this Regulation. Of course, these are some, because there are many, many more.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u382	Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u383	I must ask this question, Mr. Marshal, Minister. In that case, the question is: will the European Commission have a problem with this if the provisions you said would be in the regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u384	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u385	I think it's just a ruin of the law. That's it. That's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u386	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. For the record, Senators Janusz Błucherz and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. Well, here you go. The Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs and the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: the Law on compensation for income lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants. The text of the Act is contained in print No 565 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 565 A and 565 B. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! These committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on 13 December and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on 9 December, examined this law, i.e. compensation for revenue lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants. And both committees ask the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. The short story of the problem is that in June 2018, i.e. in the course of the financial year, the law was amended the tax base of the buildings forming part of wind power plants, with effect from 1 January 2018. As a result of the complaint to the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court declared this solution unconstitutional in July 2020 and ordered the refund of the tax overpaid to the municipalities... Wait, something here does not agree. Oh, yeah, compensation for lost tax revenue. The problem was bigger because it was not only for 2018 but also for years before 2018. This was because the municipalities had to refund the property tax collected and the sum of the amounts reached over PLN half a billion. And that's what the bill is about. It is a pity that she is only now in session because there was a chance to deal with this matter six months earlier when the Senate took the legislative initiative and in May 2021, i.e. in May of this year, adopted a law which is very similar in substance to the law submitted by the government and currently being prosecuted. The Act sets out the method of calculating losses, the model application which municipalities will have to submit to the voivodeship and the relevant deadlines. I think it is complete, solves the old problem for the benefit of the disadvantaged communities of 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u388	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please. Senator Jazłowicka. Mr. Senator, stay on the stand. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u389	Mr. Senator, as you said, the Senate prepared a law in May on compensation for the income lost by the municipalities in the years 2016 to 2018 due to the taxation of wind power plants. Tell me, would it be possible for compensation to be paid next year? Will the adoption of the law only now cause difficulties in preparing or paying compensation to local governments next year? Do you have any idea what compensation will be like?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u390	There are dates in the bill. They're relatively short. From this point on, there will be no more time losses, which is important because, unlike the Senate proposal, there is no valorisation of quotas, and with the current inflation level, each month changes a lot. The only difference is that if we were to settle this case in May, that's the amount. If this were to be paid according to the model adopted by this law, it would be higher to lose the value of money from May to, suppose, January or February.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u391	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is Minister Ireneusz Gaina willing to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Please, Mr. Marshal.]] That's what I'd like to ask you for.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u392	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a law on compensation for income lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants submitted by the government and prepared by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Main findings. On 22 July Ub. The Constitutional Tribunal delivered a judgment on the constitutionality of the Article. 17 point 2 of the Act of 7 June 2018 amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws. This provision resulted in the entry into force of an amendment to the definition of buildings and wind power plants as from 1 January 2018, while the various provisions of the Act entered into force 14 days after the date of publication and the day following the date of publication. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that this provision was unconstitutional in so far as it infringes the principle of non-retroactivity. The Court also held that that provision would expire on 5 February 2022. Therefore, the purpose of the Act presented today is to prepare a compensation mechanism for municipalities which, as a result of the retroactive amendment of the legislation, lost income in the form of a property tax paid from wind power plants during the period from 1 January to 13 July 2018. The bill was submitted for public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements in June this year. A number of comments were submitted in this process, including comments from local authorities. A dialogue with the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission has played an important role. As a result of this work, the Ministry of Climate and Environment decided to prepare a modified bill, which was positively assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland passed the law at its meeting on 17 November this year. It was then transferred to the Senate. The Act was addressed to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. And here I would like to thank all the senators, the members of these committees, but also the president. Both the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration For a very constructive, substantive work on this law and for adopting it without any comments, without any amendments being tabled. It should be pointed out that the Constitutional Tribunal did not state in its judgment the period for which compensation was due to the municipalities, i.e. compensation. The Court has therefore left this issue to the legislator. The original draft law proposed compensation for the period from 1 January to 13 July 2018, of course because of the protection of the interests of the state budget. However, as a result of the comments made both within the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission and during the public consultation, it was decided to pay compensation for the entire year 2018. In view of the requests in the discussion concerning the need to value compensation or the costs associated with the repayment of interest on borrowings, it should also be stressed that the adoption of the so-called. annuality, i.e. payment of compensation for the entire year 2018, is a much more favourable solution for municipalities than previously assumed half-year, even with possible valorization. This approach received a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Self-Government, as well as from the Sejm committees and Senate committees. In addition, the full amount of compensation is to be paid once. Here, of course, I must refer to the draft law, which was prepared by the Senate Legislative Commission. But I would also like to say that the government project, which has already been examined in the form of a law adopted by the Sejm, is indeed different from this senate project. First of all, the Senate proposed that compensation be paid in 3 instalments. We've offered. The law adopted by the Sejm, and so it is enshrined in the law adopted by the Sejm. I want it to be a one-off payment. Applications will be submitted to the voivodship in a territorially appropriate manner, and in the case of an appeal procedure, the Board of Appeal will be the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs. We do not assume to value this compensation, because here we have accepted calculated compensation for the whole year 2018. We assume that within this amount, this compensation will compensate for all losses in the budgets of local government units. High Izbo, the competent authority... That's what I've been talking about. The Act, after taking into account the most important comments submitted by local government units, assumes that the maximum compensation for the municipality concerned will be the equivalent of income lost for the entire year 2018. According to estimates presented in the impact assessment, this applies to about 200 municipalities in Poland. Total expenditure from the state budget under this law is to amount to no more than PLN 524 million 430 thousand and, of course, we close in this payment once in 2022. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like once again to thank you very much for your constructive, substantive work on this bill. I am convinced that this is also motivated by the good of the municipalities, the good of the local government units and the inhabitants of those municipalities who have lost or suffered this loss in their budgets, so that this law can be implemented before the constitutionality of the provision, which the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled, i.e. before 5 February 2022. I would very kindly ask the High House to adopt this law in the nearest vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u393	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to you. Senator Jazłowiecka... [[I'm out.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much again, thank you to the senators.]] You were so convincing, no questions asked. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It is not written for discussion...]] [[Two sentences only.]] Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek. Please, Mr. Senator. [[To the bleacher?]] If I'm bothering you and giving you the floor, you're welcome to come here. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: But the senator has submitted to the protocol...]] [[My leg hurts.]] And your throat doesn't hurt? There you go. [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: Mr Senator gave a speech to the minutes.]] [[So, can I come over here?]] You can.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also pleased, on behalf of local government officials from our region, because there are a lot of municipalities, which unfortunately suffered a lot of losses, the planned money had to be paid back in millions. The amount mentioned here by the Minister and the chairman of the committee, more than 500 million, is not a small amount. That is why I think that we will vote unanimously at the end of the sitting, as at the joint committee meeting, where all the senators are 100% They voted to return the money they owed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u395	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Janusz Gromek and Senators Mariusz Gromko, Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches to the minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It was a five-minute speech...]] Yes... [[Voice from the room: Second.]] That's what we're looking at as second, very short. The discussion is closed. There were no legislative proposals? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: No.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And I'm asking for messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u396	Messages. Meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act on Voluntary Firefighters The senate print No 589 will take place today, 14 December, 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in room No 176/179. A communication on the joint meeting of the Environment Committee and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs will be announced tomorrow. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act on amending the law on the integration and exchange of land, the Law on the loss of legal force of certain perpetual books and the Law on public roads, will take place tomorrow, 15 December at 8.15 in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the applications submitted at the thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Wine Products Act (Senate Print No 585) will be held tomorrow, 15 December at 8.25 p.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 A joint meeting of the Committee on Civil Self-Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for the Control of Cybercrime, as well as the Act on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the State Protection Service in the years 2022 to 202525, on the establishment of the "Programme for the modernisation of the Prison Service in the years 2022 to 2025 and on the amendment of the Law on Police and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 15 December at 8.30 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws of the Senate No. 591 will take place tomorrow, 15 December at 8.45 in room No. 176/ 179. And a joint meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other acts - Senate print No. 574 - will take place tomorrow, 15 December at 8.45 in room No. 217. [[And the information that the two committees will be tomorrow...]] I already said that... [[Okay.]] ...there will be a joint committee meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-14-senat-34-1.u397	Good. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that, as announced earlier on the second day of the meeting, we will begin with the review of item nineteen: the Act amending the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans and some other laws. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. We're starting at 19th. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 42]]
