ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Culture and Media - hour 9, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - including hours. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 6:30. And a message about the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Women's Sports - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Reinforcing the Sołecci and Osiedliwy - hour. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 12. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u2	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed with the examination of items 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda: I therefore ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020 and on the draft resolution on discharge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u3	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020, together with the analysis presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber in print No 1234, 1273 and 1392. The Public Finance Commission considered the report on the implementation of the State budget for 2020 at its meetings from 23 June to 14 July. About 20 committee meetings were held at that time. During the work on the report on the implementation of the budget, the committee, in accordance with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm, considered the budgetary parts of its remit, as well as those which were the subject of the work of other committees. The individual Sejm committees have submitted 26 opinions to the Public Finance Commission with proposals for positive evaluations of the implementation of the budget. The exception was the Committee on Infrastructure, which negatively assessed the implementation of the budget in the relevant budgetary parts of the Committee's budget. It is worth noting, however, that the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber was positive for these parts of the budget. [[It's descriptive.]] During its meetings, the Committee on Public Finance also took note of the views of the Coreferent MEPs and the position of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The members of the committee asked questions, there was a discussion, although it did not always take place because the information submitted did not raise any objections. Additional explanations were provided by representatives of the ministries and other directors of the budgetary parts. During committee meetings, Members discussed, among others, such topics as... stressed the relatively good performance of income and tax collection, even in a very difficult period, but they also talked about the high tax arrears that were not collected. There was also a discussion about subsidies to the special purpose company, critical applications and the construction of the Central Register of Invoices, subsidies to dairy bars, tax effects of financial institutions during the crisis, issues related to presidential elections. Members of the Committee on Public Finance were also interested in issues relating to the level of public debt service costs in Poland against the background of other European countries. They were also interested in employment, salaries in various state institutions and funds. The discussion highlighted the great number of actions carried out by the Social Security Office in the face of a pandemic. It was also stressed, and it was highly appreciated that the tasks entrusted with the commissioning and implementation of the crisis shield were effectively carried out. I remind you, those words of praise were addressed to the ZUS. In addition, Members' questions have been raised e.g. travel expenses of the President of the Republic of Poland, expenses from the Justice Fund, activities of the company Polskie Domy Drewniane. Here I would like to inform you that the committee has planned a separate meeting on this matter. It is worth noting that the evaluation of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the implementation of the 2020 budget was good. The positive assessments concerning the total budget parts of agencies, funds and public legal entities were 64, descriptive assessments - 22. There were no negative assessments regarding the Supreme Audit Chamber. On 14 July, the Committee on Public Finance voted on 32 requests from Members for a negative assessment of the implementation of the budget, although, I would stress, there were no negative assessments... [[They were descriptive.]] [[But it's descriptive.]] ... formulated by the Supreme Audit Chamber. If you would please allow me to conclude my speech. [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] I understand that maybe this information doesn't necessarily answer, but I'm saying what's true. As a result of voting on these 32 proposals, all requests for negative opinions on the part of the budget or the financial plans were rejected. A proposal for a draft resolution was also rejected which proposed not to adopt a report on the implementation of the State budget and not to grant discharge to the Council of Ministers. Finally, the Committee on Public Finances, as a result of the vote, adopted a draft resolution proposed by the chairman of the committee, in which point 3 proposes to ask the authorising officers of the various parts of the budget to take action to remedy the irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber. In point 1 of the resolution, the Committee on Public Finance proposes the adoption of a report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020, and in point 2 proposes that discharge be given to the Council of Ministers for that period. This resolution is recommended by the High House by the Committee on Public Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would just like to thank you for your patient participation in the work of the committee for all Members, for all parliamentarians, for the budgetary parts of the committee, and in a special way thank you to Minister Sebastian Skuza, who patiently accompanied us in all committee meetings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Marian Banas, to present an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives in 2020 and an opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives in 2020 together with the opinion of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2020. In view of the very short time for my speech, I will only pass on the most important thesis presented in this document. In 2020 a wide range of solutions have been applied to a much greater extent than before, which, although lawful, have, however, distorted the transparency and efficiency of the implementation of the state budget. That is why I will pay the most attention to this issue. High Seym! For the first time, we have assessed the descriptive implementation of the budget law for 2020. Although the vast majority of individual controls gave a positive assessment, their number in the structure of the evaluations decreased by almost 4 percentage points compared to the previous year. At the same time, on a similar scale, the number of evaluations in descriptive form increased, which this year we formulated 47. We have also issued one negative assessment and in one case we have waived the evaluation. [[So that's it.]] The Supreme Audit Chamber states that the state budget and the budget of European funds have been implemented in accordance with the Budget Law for 2020. [[Yeah, it is.]] All the limits laid down directly in this Act concerning expenditure and expenditure, budget deficits, debt and guarantees and guarantees of the State Treasury were respected. However, a significant proportion of the operations related to the financing of the prevention, prevention and eradication of the COVID-19 epidemic were excluded from these limits. The Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020 was drawn up on the basis of the data included in the reports of the individual State budget managers and the applicable legal regulations. The data contained in the audited accounts reflected the nature of the operations carried out. At this point, however, I must stress that by applying mechanisms to reduce budget transparency in 2020 this report does not reflect all operations affecting the state of the government sector's finances, and not just those related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19. High Seym! Initially, the budget law for 2020 plans to balance the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. This was possible thanks to the introduction of a number of legal solutions which enabled public expenditure of PLN 20.7 billion to be financed from non-budget funds. The deterioration during the financial year of the conditions for the implementation of the State budget due to the development of the COVID-19 epidemic was the reason for the revision of the budget law, which took place on 28 October 2020. As a result of the amendment, an update of the basic macroeconomic parameters and budgetary volumes was made, in particular, a deficit of PLN 109.3 billion was set in place of the previously anticipated balance. High Seym! As I have already pointed out, major financial operations on important public tasks were planned and carried out in 2020 with the exception of the expenditure account and the government budget deficit. It also used operations which allowed State budget expenditure to be shown in different periods than they were actually incurred. An example of operations carried out without the State budget was the free transfer of treasury securities of PLN 18.3 billion to entities authorised under other laws than the budget law. This included, among others, the following: universities, infrastructure companies, Polish TV and Polish Radio, Polish Development Fund and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Another example was the granting of interest-free loans to the Solidarity Fund of PLN 15.5 billion, which had already had past loans liabilities of nearly PLN 13 billion. Most of the expenditure earmarked for the prevention, prevention and eradication of the COVID-19 epidemic has also been financed without the State budget. From the state budget and the budget of European funds, only PLN 23.3 billion were allocated for these purposes, thus less than 4%. the total expenditure of those budgets. On the other hand, the Budgetary Act does not include funds of PLN 166.1 billion collected by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the Anti-Action Fund COVID-19 and by the Polish Development Fund SA. The issue of bonds related to the COVID-19 epidemic resulting in an increase in the State's liabilities did not increase the value of sovereign public debt calculated in accordance with national methodology. Solution used to avoid exceeding the prudential threshold of 55% gross domestic product increases the costs borne by the wider public sector, as the operation of the commitments undertaken by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Polish Development Fund requires higher costs than the handling of debt incurred directly by the State Treasury. The repayment of commitments entered into by these entities will in the end most likely be borne by the State Treasury. The financing of financial and crisis shields in a form that is not shown in debt calculated according to the national methodology but only according to the Union methodology resulted in the highest gap between general government debt and public government debt at the end of 2020. This difference has increased more than four times compared to previous years and reached PLN 224 billion, or close to 10% Gross domestic product and 20,2% State public debt. The operations which have allowed State budget expenditure to be shown in a different period than will actually be incurred include State budget expenditure of over PLN 41 billion which was transferred in 2020 to the Solidarity Fund accounts, the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund and the Government Road Development Fund, and have remained unused until the end of the year. The operations formally increasing the deficit of the state budget in 2020 also included non-extinguishable expenditure. In 2019 this type of expenditure was set at less than PLN 140 million, while in 2020 it was already close to PLN 12 billion. Taking into account the deadline set for the completion of their implementation on 30 November 2021, this de facto means that two budgets are being implemented this year. [[And that's a scandal.]] Such an important scale of unexploited expenditure also limits control... For the second time, I would like to ask you very warmly to allow me to speak. ...parliamentary, as during the period when the implementation of the State budget is discussed in 2020, the expenditure allocated to this year may still be implemented for many months. High Seym! The application of the operations in question, although based on legislation, reduces the transparency of public finances and also reduces the effectiveness of other provisions, in particular those relating to the limit on public expenditure or public debt. Following the above findings, the Supreme Audit Chamber points out the need to plan expenditure on important public tasks in the Budget Act and in particular in the State budget. It is also reasonable to discuss the differences in the presentation of revenue, expenditure, deficit and public debt in two different ways, i.e. according to national and EU methodologies. High Seym! The remaining irregularities identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber relating to the implementation of the budget in 2020 concerned primarily the non-targeted and uneconomic spending of funds, the failure to grant and use grants, and errors in accounting records and budgetary reports, and therefore the recurring issues each year. The detailed results of the audit were presented in separate information on the results of the inspections submitted to you by your marshals and the parliamentary committees in mid-June this year. The Supreme Audit Chamber welcomes the implementation of monetary policy in 2020. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The College of the Supreme Audit Chamber, following an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives in 2020, adopted a resolution on 9 June 2021 which expressed a positive opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2020, but also indicated the need for action to increase the transparency of public finances. High Seym! In view of the ongoing pandemic and the government's recommendations for tightening for security reasons, not all heads of departments and delegations are present, but are remotely following these proceedings. In view of this exceptional pandemic situation, the answer to the country's questions, if any, will be sent in writing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[A positive opinion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u6	Thank you very much to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I would like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to present a report on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2020 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The information on guarantees and guarantees granted in 2020 by the State Treasury, some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, looks briefly as follows. In 2020, the State Treasury granted a guarantee for a total amount of PLN 193 199 717 654 including four guarantees for a total amount of PLN 5 094 341 thousand under the Law of 8 May 1997 on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury and certain legal persons, hereinafter referred to as the Guarantees and Guarantees Act. zł, pursuant to Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act of 31 March 2020 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases, the State Treasury guarantees were covered by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego's obligations on bonds issued for the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund for a total amount of PLN 116 933 million and on the basis of Article. 21aa paragraph. 2 of the Act of 4 July 2019 on the system of institutions for the development of the State Treasury guarantees were covered by the obligations of the Polish Development Fund SA arising from bonds issued for the implementation of government programs: financial shield of the Polish Development Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, financial shield of the Polish Development Fund for large companies, financial shield 2.0 Polish Development Fund for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the Program of support of Polish Airlines LOT SA, for a total amount of PLN 71 171 million. Potential and non-requireable - I repeat - the non-requireable obligations of the State Treasury under the guarantees granted at 31 December 2020 amounted to a total of PLN 302 875 056 817. Allow me to provide some detailed information from this amount of PLN 302 billion. Here's how it's gonna work. The first panel consists of national guarantees and guarantees. It is a total amount of PLN 198 billion with such a location: Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - PLN 116 billion, Polish Development Fund SA - PLN 70 billion - I read the main amounts, I no longer read the detailed amounts - Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, support KFD - PLN 9.8 billion, PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA - PLN 998 million, Agency for Industrial Development - PLN 48 million. The second panel consists of foreign guarantees for a total amount of PLN 104 596 million with the following breakdown: Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - PLN 75 billion, PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA - PLN 13 billion, Gdańsk Transport Company - PLN 7 billion, Autostrada Wielkopolska - PLN 5.9 billion, PKP Intercity - PLN 1.5 PLN billion, Polish Development Fund - PLN 700 million, Polish State Railways SA - PLN 38 million, other guarantees - PLN 2830 million. This gives the total amount of PLN 104 596 million, i.e. together, as I said, is PLN 302 875 056 817. The amount of the State Treasury's liabilities resulting from the guarantees and guarantees provided under the Guarantees and Guarantees Act amounted to PLN 114,769 million. On the other hand, the amount of the State Treasury's liabilities under the guarantees granted pursuant to Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act of 31 March 2020 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to COVID-19 amounted to PLN 116 933 million. On the other hand, the amount of the State Treasury's liabilities under the guarantees granted pursuant to Article. 21aa Act of 4 July 2019 on the system of development institutions is PLN 71 171 million. In 2020, as in 2019, the Treasury did not spend funds to repay guaranteed and guaranteed commitments. In 2019 the State Treasury only incurred expenses of PLN 106 266 for the settlement of costs related to the closed court proceedings concerning the State Treasury guarantee. At 31 December 2020, the ratio of potential commitments from the State Treasury's guarantees and guarantees to GDP for 2020 was around 13.1%, i.e. there was an increase in this ratio as at 31 December 2019, at 4,9%. In 2020 there was a decrease in the average risk of the portfolio of guarantees and guarantees granted to the State Treasury compared to 2019: from 4,8% up to 2.2%. The State Treasury's guarantees and guarantees as at 31 December 2020 amounted to 28 205 thousand. zł, which means that compared to 2019 this item recorded a decrease of 4,8% , as this was the case as at 31 December 2019. 29 600 thousand. zł. As a result of the recovery measures undertaken in 2020 and in previous years, which resulted in the reimbursement to the budget of the Treasury's claims, an amount of PLN 69558 was achieved in 2020. In addition, the State budget received funds of PLN 2500 for the final settlement of costs related to the closed court proceedings concerning the State Treasury guarantee granted. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, before reading the report and voting. After the discussion, which was a rather long, detailed discussion - there were very many questions, there were also many doubts, because money is huge and this year was incredible - that the conclusion is that today these commitments, which the Polish state has entered into, do not pose a threat to the functioning of our country. The Public Finance Commission prepared a report on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2020 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above information to the Committee on Public Finance on 28 May this year for consideration. As regards the course of the committee meeting and the main information, there has been a long discussion, often very emotional, with the numerous allegations that have been made in relation to the various aspects. I also believe that the information presented by the Minister of Finance was absolutely exhausting. The Commission, after its meeting on 24 June 2021, invites the High Sejm to accept printing information No 1232. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u8	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, to present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, As President of the National Bank of Poland and Chairman of the Monetary Policy Council, I have the honour to present a report on the implementation of monetary policy objectives for 2020 and a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2020. Of course, due to the introduction of a time limit, I will only discuss the main elements of this report. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The outbreak of the pandemic last year led to the biggest collapse of economic activity worldwide in decades. In order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic in many countries, governments and central banks have taken unprecedented anti-crisis measures. In Poland too, the pandemic and its restrictions led to a strong decline in economic activity last year. We were threatened not only by a very deep recession, but also by permanent reduction of the potential of the Polish economy. We were threatened by the bankruptcy of many companies, a strong rise in unemployment and a decline in Poles' income for a long time. In addition, inflation would fall below the target of the National Bank of Poland in the medium term. Therefore, the National Bank of Poland as one of the first central banks in Europe, including in the world, has implemented actions aimed at supporting the Polish economy in the face of a pandemic. Firstly, in 2020 we tripled the interest rates, including the reference rate by a total of 1,4 percentage points, to a level of 0.1%. Secondly, we have launched structural open market operations to buy tax bonds on the secondary market and guaranteed by the Treasury. As part of these operations by the end of June 2021, we have accumulated bonds worth almost PLN 136 billion, for the first time in the history of the Polish Central Bank. Thirdly, we have lowered the minimum reserve rate. Fourthly, we have provided bank loans and finally, in the face of strong appreciation of the gold, fast and strong, the National Bank of Poland has intervened in the currency market, strengthening the impact of the earlier loosening of monetary policy. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What are the effects of our policy today, which we implemented last year? There is no doubt that NBP's activities reduced the costs of pandemics for the Polish economy, for Polish companies, and above all for all Poles and Poles. Thanks to our decisions, the interest rate on loans has fallen significantly. As a result, household and business spending on borrowing decreased by PLN 7 billion per year. Moreover, the profitability of the Treasury bonds and those guaranteed by the Treasury decreased significantly and the liquidity of the secondary market of those bonds was maintained. This allowed for the immediate mobilisation of payments to Polish companies and households under government crisis shields. In total, about PLN 140 billion has been paid out since the start of the pandemic. As a result, the decline in real GDP last year was only 2.7% in Poland and was more than twice as small as the average decrease in the European Union. Moreover, unemployment has not increased significantly, making it one of the lowest in the European Union today. At the same time, the financial results of most companies are very good and the real income of Poles is growing all the time. Most importantly, all forecasts show that not only this year, but also in the next few years we have a chance of very strong economic growth. It is worth noting that the NBP's activities not only effectively supported the Polish economy, including its current recovery, but also significantly reduced the cost of anti-crisis programmes for the budget and thus for the Polish taxpayer. The savings of the state budget for this purpose are estimated at over PLN 7 billion, only last year, which I am talking about. In addition, in 2020 The NBP provided the state budget with PLN 7.4 billion from the profit generated. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the last months of this year, concerns about the condition of the Polish economy have resolved in many comments the concern for the increase in inflation. The inflation has actually increased, which is obviously the subject of careful analysis by the NBP, but the increased inflation rate is a temporary one, and for its significant increase in the last six months, which, moreover, relates to many economies around the world, is mainly due to factors which are wholly independent of NBP's monetary policy. The annual price dynamics increase primarily the global increase in raw material prices, which is strongly strengthened by the so-called. the statistical base effect, because we compare everything with what happened in such a period a year earlier. Plus, we're still experiencing the effects of pandemic disruptions in international transport and global supply chains. Regulatory factors have also contributed significantly to price increases in Poland, including a significant increase in trash export charges and an increase in electricity prices as a result of the EU's CO2 rationing policy. I would like to stress strongly that these factors are completely independent of any NBP action and also from the national economic situation. They are responsible, as I stress, entirely for exceeding the NBP's inflation target. If we didn't take them into account, we'd be below the middle as far as the inflation target is concerned. Forecasts indicate that inflation is likely to remain above the upper limit of the inflation target as a result of these factors by the end of this year, but will decrease by next year. I would like to remind you that, in line with the monetary policy strategy pursued, the objective of the NBP is to maintain inflation at 2.5%. with a symmetrical variation interval of 1 percentage point in the medium term. And that's what we're doing. In the longer term, inflation remains at a level consistent with the NBP's objective. And that's what it'll be like in the next few years. During the period during which I am privileged to be president of NBP, inflation in Poland was on average 2.1% so it was fully in line with the inflation target. In the following years, unless further external shocks occur, inflation will return to NBP target level. We will continue to conduct monetary policy that supports sustainable economic growth and long-term economic development of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The COVID-19 Pandemic has created significant risks not only for economic growth and macroeconomic equilibrium but also for the stability of the financial system as a whole. The National Bank of Poland, in cooperation with the government and other institutions of the financial security network, has taken decisive action to reduce the risk in this area. First of all, the NBP quickly provided liquidity to the banking sector. This was mainly served by the structural open market operations already mentioned by me and by lowering the minimum reserve rate. The good liquidity situation of the banking sector is confirmed not only by the liquidity ratios at the moment, but also by the fact that, during this difficult period, no liquidity support was necessary for any bank in the form of a refinancing loan throughout the crisis. In turn, the reduction in NBP's interest rates was beneficial for maintaining the dynamics of the economy and contributed to reducing the burden on existing borrowers. With support from financial shields and moratoria, which you remember, which have been introduced - the moratoria of repayment of loans - this reduced the risk of a strong deterioration in the quality of the bank's credit portfolio. Banks have significantly increased their prudential write-downs on credit risk, but their actual credit losses have so far been less than we feared at the beginning of the pandemic. All you have to do is reach out to the media. The aim of reducing the risk of excessive credit reduction by banks was to enable them to use funds from the so-called funds. a systemic risk buffer. In March 2020, the liquidation of the buffer was recommended by the Finance Minister of the Financial Stability Committee - a macro-prudential body, which I chair as President of the NBP. As a result, banks have received more than PLN 30 billion of capital, which has so far been frozen in their balance sheets. At the same time, we have stated that the funds released from the buffer cannot increase the planned dividends, but should be allocated to cover losses and credit to the economy. The banking sector ended in 2020 with a solvency ratio of more than 20%, and by more than 1.3 percentage points more than in 2019. The solvency ratio increased, did not decrease. This was precisely the result of the bank's retention of profits. In conclusion, despite the scale of shock and high uncertainty regarding the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire crisis in the face of the counter-measures it has taken has proved to be a less threat to the stability of the financial system than it seemed last year. Today, high write-downs to the legal risks of foreign exchange loans provided by banks are more and more likely to pose a threat. The NBP received a request from the Supreme Court on this matter and the reply of the National Bank of Poland has already been forwarded. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a central bank of the State, the National Bank of Poland is responsible for carrying out issue activities and organizing cash settlements. This task was particularly important last year, as the country's epidemic situation has resulted in a significant increase in the demand of Poles for cash. Significant, violent, and fast. Under these difficult conditions, NBP met the logistical challenges, ensuring a smooth and continuous supply of Polish currency to the banks. Thanks to this, Poles and Poles had undisturbed access to cash through ATMs and bank facilities, which maintained public confidence in the state and its institutions. These experiences show that in crisis situations cash continues to play a very important role in stabilising the financial system. However, during the pandemic, we noted cases of refusal to accept cash. In the opinion of the National Bank of Poland, this situation is legally and socially unacceptable. Therefore, in order to safeguard the universal availability and acceptance of cash in the payment market in November 2020, I announced the launch of work on the development of a national cash market security strategy. The preparation of solutions to ensure the wide-ranging security of cash trading, belonging to the NBP's priority tasks, in 2021, has now been entrusted to the Board for cash trading at the NBP Management Board. It required additional cooperation with all public institutions competent for the areas covered by the strategy and representatives of the cash market. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last year was also full of challenges for the foreign exchange reserve management process. We had to face not only the increase in volatility in the financial markets (the bell), the deterioration of the credit standing of issuers of securities under conditions of severe economic downturn, but also the increase in operational and clearing risk due to the transition of many institutions in the sector to remote work. I am proud to say that in this area the NBP has also fulfilled its statutory tasks without reservation. At the end of 2020, the official reserve assets of the National Bank of Poland accounted for almost EUR 126 billion, of which the monetary gold stock of almost 230 t is an important part. The monetary gold stock has increased to 230 t. This size of reserves allowed to maintain the commonly used reserve adequacy indicators at the appropriate level, strengthening the financial credibility of Poland on foreign markets and securing potential balance of payments needs. Of course, the high security of the funds invested and their proper high liquidity are required above all, and only after these conditions have been met can we take care to increase the profitability of the reserves over the long term. The various measures taken have reduced the risk of the reserve portfolio but also increased its profitability. In 2020 the rate of return on reserves calculated in PLN was 5.2% , calculated in the currency of the instruments - 2,3% And it was much higher than the average in the last five years. As a result, the income from investment activities related to foreign exchange reserve management amounted to PLN 6.9 billion and was the main component of the financial result, which amounted to PLN 9.3 billion in 2020. According to the NBP Act 95% This amount has already been paid to the State budget. Given all this, I am proud to say today that in 2020, as in previous years, NBP not only achieved its statutory goals but also actively supported the Polish economy in the face of pandemics. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u10	Thank you very much to the President of the National Bank of Poland. I now ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Ministers! I have the honour to present my position on the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2020 together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance. The report covers the implementation by the National Bank of Poland as the central bank of the state of statutory tasks in 2020 in the areas of monetary policy, actions for the stability of the financial system, emission activity, foreign exchange reserve management, foreign exchange activities, actions for the payment system, treasury management, analytical and research activities, statistical, educational and information activities and international cooperation. The report also takes into account the legislative, internal and financial situation of the National Bank of Poland as at 31 December 2020. The reporting year covers the implementation of the tasks of the National Bank of Poland under the conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic, which were appropriate to the related challenges faced by the Polish economy. The main objective of monetary policy in 2020 was to maintain price stability while promoting sustainable economic growth and the stability of the financial system. In 2020 due to the outbreak of the world pandemic and economic downturn, as well as the expected reduction in inflation, the National Bank of Poland significantly loosened monetary policy. The Monetary Policy Council reduced NBP interest rates, including from 1,5% up to 0,1% , as well as a minimum reserve rate of 3.5% Up to 0.5%. The National Bank of Poland also conducted structural open market operations involving the purchase on the secondary market of treasury securities and debt securities guaranteed by the Treasury. The loosening of monetary policy has limited the scale of the decline in economic activity and the cost of pandemics in the labour market. The decline in real GDP in Poland was more than twice as low as on average in the European Union and the unemployment rate was among the lowest in Europe at the end of 2020. At the same time, the conducted monetary policy ensured the core task of the National Bank of Poland, namely keeping inflation at a level consistent with the NBP's inflation objective, i.e. 2,5% plus minus 1 percentage point. in the medium term. The inflation of consumer goods and services in December 2020 was 2.4% year-to-year and year-to-year average 3.4%. It should be noted that the activities of the National Bank of Poland, through a positive impact on the financial situation of borrowers, reduced the credit risk, whose growth was the most important channel for the impact of pandemics on the stability of the banking system. Managing reserves, the National Bank of Poland sought to complement and ensure the necessary liquidity of the funds invested. The income from investment activities related to the management of foreign exchange reserves without taking into account the realised and unrealised exchange rate differences in 2020 amounted, as the President mentioned, to PLN 6.9 billion, and in the previous year, in 2019 it amounted to PLN 7.6 billion under different conditions. The state banking service operated by the National Bank of Poland has contributed to ensuring the security and fluidity of the settlement of the funds of the public finance sector. As at 31 December, NBP kept 25,719 accounts for 2953 customers. The National Bank of Poland was involved in the operation of the European temporary support instrument SURE and served the so-called. a joint account for the collection of tax and non-tax liabilities of the State budget. This appropriation is The National Bank of Poland implemented monetary policy in line with monetary policy objectives for 2020. In view of the shock from the pandemic, it was necessary to use instruments which were not used or used only in exceptional situations in recent years, i.e. the use of unconditional collection of bonds. The Public Finance Commission took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2020 at its meeting on 14 July 2021. She listened to the extensive discussion of this report by your NBP vice-president and held a detailed discussion of the report, listened to explanations and answers to questions asked by Members. The report of the Committee on Public Finance is contained in print No 1391. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u12	Thank you very much for the report. Before we enter the debate, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 55 hours 9 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm established in a joint discussion on these items the division of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, within a range of 52 to 4 minutes, i.e. short-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I will present an assessment of the implementation of the budget for 2020. The year 2020 was indeed an exceptional year. I don't think any of us remember the year as specific as 2020. Let me remind you that the budget adopted was a balanced budget. We've probably forgotten about it in this situation, but that's what happened. At first, the public debt calculated according to the EU methodology - I stress, according to the EU methodology, because according to the national methodology it counted a little less - was 45.6% GDP, and according to the national methodology, this was not much more than 42% GDP. I would like to remind you that between 2013 and 2015 the debt was close to 60% GDP was very close to the constitutional threshold. Then, among other things. The money from the OFE removed this glare from the constitutional threshold. But where did all this come from? Of course, this low level of public debt came primarily from a very responsible policy of the rule of law and justice - Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This has led to a reduction in debt compared to GDP. I think that this policy of the rule of law and justice in recent years has been salvageable to this situation that we found in 2020 because we had a significant security margin of more than 17%. GDP. So to this extent we could afford to increase debt and save the economy in 2020 - because the specificity of 2020 was precisely the need to save the economy. Even in the first quarter of 2020, there was a 2% increase, although remember that since 15 March we had a hard lockdown. So, actually, half a month of this quarter has already been, you can say, wasted and yet GDP growth has been achieved. Unfortunately, the second quarter is actually the result of this very hard lockdown and the decline in GDP by 8.3%. In the third quarter, a slight breath, which means a decrease of only 1.7%. In the fourth quarter, another economic shutdown, a second wave of pandemics, a decrease of 2.7%. On a yearly basis, GDP falls by 2.7%. It could be said that, for European conditions, this was a really minimal decrease. In the European Union, this decline was much, much larger and reached 6.4% per year. So it was almost 2.5 times bigger. And now I am. In fact, it can be said that when assessing the state budget, we should analyse how this could have happened, that in Poland there was such a small drop in relation to the European Union, and that, after all, the pandemic of Coronavirus did not spare Poland, as did other European countries. It wasn't a coincidence. Again, it wasn't a coincidence. The extremely efficient help of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government for the economy has saved from a deeper recession, but above all this help has saved jobs and jobs have been saved by the speed of this help. We all remember that even entrepreneurs were very surprised that here they are sending a request and in 2 days they have money in their account, of course, provided they keep jobs, and very rightly, because keeping jobs caused the economy in Poland not to collapse. There was a dullness in terms of unemployment, but extremely small, about 1 percentage point. This is really nothing compared to Europe. So it is these funds and the speed of the transfer of these funds, the extremely rapid response of government institutions, but also of government institutions. We've just heard of their huge merits. Great words of thanks to the National Bank of Poland for a very quick response, to the Social Insurance Institution, which responded quickly and slowed down, suspended payments from the Social Security Office, but also for the Polish Development Fund, which very well launched anti-crisis shields. The resources that were earmarked in 2020 to counter the effects of the pandemic, of course, were significant. As has been said here, it is about 140 billion PLN. Part of the funds came directly from the state budget - over PLN 23 billion. It was also funds from PFR, from NBP, from ZUS. I think these amounts... Over PLN 92 billion were allocated to the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, including among others. PLN 32 billion to save jobs by the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund or more than PLN 28 billion from the Social Security Office. The Minister of Health was also a beneficiary of these budget appropriations, and a significant amount - over PLN 8 billion. And above all, when it comes to helping entrepreneurs, PFR, which instantly allocated over PLN 63 billion to entrepreneurs. Of course, this situation, which happened, forced the revision of the budget, which took place in October 2020. This amendment adopted very cautious assumptions, i.e. a reduction in revenue by PLN 36.7 billion and an increase in expenditure by PLN 72.7 billion, resulting in a total budget deficit of PLN 109 billion. Let me remind you that before the amendment, the budget was to be a balanced budget. Ultimately, if we are looking at the implementation of this budget today, the revenues amounted to PLN 420 billion and turned out to be higher by PLN 21 billion compared to the amendment, and what is important, I stress, they were higher by PLN 19 billion than the revenues realised in 2019. So it's not that the money was actually running out, but maybe the assumed growth wasn't that big. But I stress once again: in 2020, despite such a difficult year, revenues were higher by PLN 19 billion than realised revenues in 2019. The expenditure amounted to about PLN 505 billion and was slightly lower than the plan after the amendment. All social programmes were implemented, although everyone feared that they would not be implemented. 500+ - over 40 billion PLN, 13th pension - over 11 billion PLN. This, too, has kept the volume of consumption, and this has kept stability in the economy. There was an increase, a little self-inflicted, because during the COVID pandemic, much more money was spent on health protection. Over PLN 116 billion has been allocated, which already accounted for 5.5% GDP. Let me remind you that the 6% bill GDP for health care not yet this year nor the next year was supposed to bring it closer, so here we have exceeded the principles of this law, of course in a way that may be a little forced, in line with the needs of COVID treatment or COVID counter. Here there was a reservation and comments concerning expenditure that was not extinguished, that they were huge, that it was some kind of fraud. Let me just remind you that expenditure that does not expire is actually PLN 11 billion. But what kind of a good host doesn't save and translate that money into the next year if he sees that the assumptions have been exceeded, that it has savings in 2020? Any good host of such unexpired expenses will secure himself for the following year. It's not a flaw, but it's the other way around, it's an advantage. If someone was managing local government finances, he knows that local government officials are handing over huge amounts of money. It's not an unexploded expense... [[But they don't pay taxes.]] ...there it is called: the budget surplus, which is to be broken down in the following year, because the nomenclature of these funds is different, but each good host moves such measures to the next year. I don't think it's a flaw, but it's the opposite, it's an advantage, it's a foresight to think that in 2021, which... In fact, we don't know exactly what he's gonna be like, spring was difficult, very difficult, now we have breath, but we don't know what fall is gonna be like. Thus, these unexpired expenses are an advantage, not a disadvantage. So I think the budget... [[New theory.]] Dear Member... It's not a theory. It's a practice. The theory may be very different for you, but the practice shows the effectiveness of this type of economic and financial policy. The budget in this extremely difficult time allowed, thanks to the responsible government policy of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the huge involvement of non-governmental institutions such as the National Bank of Poland, PFR or ZUS, to go through a huge crisis with a dry leg. We have been better through this crisis than other European countries, so the comparison is quite clear. Unemployment in Poland has hardly increased, unlike unemployment in other European countries. That's where it grew much more. This is a smart government policy. Financial shields for entrepreneurs, for local governments have been launched very quickly. We have provided livelihoods, job protection, health protection measures. All this shows that during this difficult time, the government has passed an excellent exam. We're proud of it. I fear to think what would have happened if such a pandemic had found a government in 2013, 2014. Then probably Poles would not be as safe as they are now, after the implementation of the 2020 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u14	Thank you very much, sir. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will take the floor of Mrs Izabel Leszczyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is difficult not to refer to all the bizarre things that Mr Kowalczyk has done. Mr. Chairman, I'm just gonna say two things. First of all, you can't call debt savings. Debt is not savings. [[Applause]] Secondly, Mr President, you said that in Poland a recession because there was a recession... During the crisis in 2008 there was no recession in Poland. It was the only country in Europe she wasn't in. You guys couldn't do it. We had a recession because of you, but it was smaller than anywhere else. Do you know why? Not thanks to Prime Minister Morawiecki, to whom you sang this pean. Mr President, the recession in Poland was lower, first of all, because the tourism industry was the most affected, which is not the main economic sector in Poland. Secondly, service industries have suffered, and unfortunately services are not our strongest party. As far as other Western European countries are concerned, they really are services, we are not. It's the services that got hurt. [[Voice from the hall: And agriculture.]] Thirdly, the power of the Polish economy was its diversity. I'm sure it wasn't Prime Minister Morawiecki, really, believe me. All economists will tell you that. [[Voice from the room: There was no success.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! If we had a normal government that respects the law that respects the Constitution, today's debate on the report on the implementation of the state budget in 2020 would not have taken place at all. Why? Because the 2020 budget is still being implemented. After all, at the end of last year the Minister of Finance transferred not 11 billion, Mr President, only 11 billion 600 million to expenditure in 2021. These expenditures can be implemented by the end of November, so how can the Sejm accept the budget implementation report? It's July, and you'll be doing it by November. [[And how is the government going to spend the surplus?]] I think Minister Kościński knows that the Sejm cannot accept this report, and that is why he is not here. [[Applause]] Non-extinguishable expenditure is expenditure which relates to activities that could not have been completed for some reason in the previous year and not to actions that are only planned for next year. That's how you broke the art. 219 of the Constitution, which says that the state budget is a law for the financial year. [[Voice from the room: Bravo for the people.]] So the assessment of the implementation of the state budget on the expenditure side is simply impossible today. What is the essence of Parliament's control over budget implementation? We're comparing the expenditure plan with the implementation of it. It can't be done today. The PiS government expects Parliament to accept the report blindly. It's like you want us to sign something like a blank note, except we know the sum that the PiS government took out of taxpayers' pockets. We just don't know what you're gonna do with that amount. Perhaps you will print electoral packages for PLN 70 million, just as Prime Minister Sasin did, maybe you will pay PLN 370 million for the respirators of some arms dealer, as Minister Cieszyński did, maybe you will earn a colleague from the slopes on masks and on piercings, as Minister Szumowski did, or maybe you will open another business in the style of Polish sewing houses, which did not sew masks, but earned a friend of Prime Minister Morawiecki's father and a friend of Prime Minister Morawiecki's son. The social relations between Moravians cost Polish taxpayers PLN 250 million. [[Applause]] President Duda took over this shady business with his patronage. We do not know what you will do with almost 12 billion zlotys, which are in deficit last year, and should be in deficit this year. I mean, you're only spending that money right now. If the Sejm accepts the budget implementation report today, that money will no longer be settled, the PiS government will no longer settle it. Yes, gentlemen of the PiS, there is a kleptocratry. So-called. the non-expressions to be issued by the end of November are not the only measures beyond social control, beyond parliamentary control. In addition to this control there is also about 200 billion PLN, which PiS has quite out of budget - not only from the previous year, but even out of the budget. These are the funds of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Polish Development Fund, which you are so proud of. This is money spent entirely outside of social control. There are also 18 billion PLN, which you finance in bonds, for example. The TV that's been whining, lying to your constituents, wants to destroy the opposition and has already led to a tragedy once. You know what the Supreme Audit Office said about spending money like that? I quote: with this solution, any result can be shown in the budget of the State, so that the plan is no longer relevant for the assessment of the financial situation. In fact, this whole debate is one big farce. Everything Mr Kowalczyk has said is as true as what Prime Minister Morawiecki says, that we have PLN 25 billion surplus after the first half. But he forgot to add that 50 billion PLN from 2021 already entered the budget into the FUS and the Justice Fund, the so-called 12 billion PLN. Unexploited, and BGK has already printed bonds for almost PLN 30 billion. That's the surplus? Think about what you're saying. It's already a redecidive thing to take money out of the budget. This is really something that causes such chaos and such lack of transparency in public finances that indeed the Supreme Audit Chamber In fact, she couldn't give a positive assessment. Therefore, these assessments are primarily descriptive. [[Applause]] Because of the chaos you're bringing in last year's debt... Mr Kowalczyk! Do you know how much debt went up last year? By PLN 290 billion in one year, and the difference between that calculated according to the European Union and that calculated according to the Polish methodology is almost 10% GDP. And you really want to take this report and give discharge to the government? [[Voice from the room: We want to.]] You've destroyed an even stabilizing spending rule. The Minister of Finance unlawfully already at the entrance exceeded the expenditure limits by PLN 5.5 billion, because you respect the law so much. It just doesn't exist for you. Meanwhile, the Union said: an exit clause can be extended, but if the economy needs to be supported. And you just said that there's a reflection: company turnover, production, export, consumption, sales - it's all growing dynamically. Then why do you want to indebt these next generations of Poles? Why do you want to keep going into the 3D that Prime Minister Tusk was talking about? [[Voice from the room: To maintain growth.]] After all, the Minister of Finance should know that debt always ends with tributes and expenses. And now we have, more than 40 raised or new, we also have a cost, she eats the raised minimum wage, eats the thirteen and 500+. Compare your shopping cart in Warsaw and Berlin in the same network shop. Basic products: washing liquid, soap, shampoo, pasta, eggs, flour, bars, coffee, nuts, mushrooms, peppers, etc. - the same basket. I did that comparison, I counted the euro at the National Bank of Poland's rate. Such a basket in Warsaw costs 199 PLN, and in Berlin it costs 214 PLN. It's supposed to be a little cheaper here. You just know what the real difference is? The German, who receives a minimum salary, works for this basket 6 hours, and the Pole - 15 hours. The Pole almost 2 days, and the Germans less than a day. [[Voice from the hall: And in your day he worked 30 hours.]] And I assure you, Minister, that your next ideas and plans for the next pluses... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: And it was good.]] I ask the president to stop his emotions. [[I'm sorry.]] I take it they finally heard the truth, right? They listen to Moravian, they think it's okay. They heard what it was like, and they were worried. [[Applause]] So, Minister, you really don't have any more pluses financed by debt, nor do you charge middle-class taxes to which Minister Patkowski counts people earning $4,000. gross, will not improve the situation of Poles. The best they can do is make this shopping cart in Warsaw more expensive. The report on the implementation of the budget in 2020 is simply an unacceptable report, which is why the Civic Coalition is proposing to reject this report and not grant discharge to the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u16	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Dariusz Wieczorek to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, we are discussing a very important document, but as I listen to the government side and the representatives of Law and Justice, I feel like I'm in a different reality. After all, ladies and gentlemen, if we examine the implementation of the 2020 budget, we will find that we are dealing with the biggest budget scam in the European Union, I think, in the last few decades. After all, the truth is that today, when it comes to obscuring public finances by, in short, obstructing Parliament's control of the budget, you are world champions, and there is no doubt about it. I know the proverb says it's good to fish in muddy water, but it feels like you've taken it to heart. You could say that billions are well caught in a cloudy budget. Oh, yeah, you're fishing those billions. They're already stuck in different funds, which I'm about to tell you. But let's cut to the chase. On February 14th, we adopted a budget. Remember how the budget was approved? Great, no deficit, great. Even then, it was known that the money was hidden out there. In the Solidarity Fund itself, you planned 17 billion PLN of deficit, because you had to pay 13th pensions. In short, of course, I would like to say that no one yet knew what was going to happen in February when it came to the pandemic. And that's an excuse. But using the pandemic to ruin the Polish budget is no longer good. That's absolutely not good. You used the crisis to completely black out public finances. Indeed, the Minister of Finance himself admits that about PLN 150 billion -probably already PLN 200 billion - was spent or spent outside Parliament's control. The budget was revised on 28 October. And here's a question for the Supreme Board of Control. Because if it was October 28, what happened between February and October? In February the budget was Sustainable, and on 28 October - just a reminder - as a result of the revision of revenue was cut by 36 billion, expenditure was increased by 72 billion and the deficit was set to 109 billion. Even then, for the sake of clarity, it was planned in this budget that you will spend about PLN 50 billion in the budget for 2021, you will spend in 2021. That's what we're talking about here. This is the first time we've dealt with such a conscious approach that we shove. People see that there is a crisis, indeed the government has political approval, hundreds of billions, we give bonds, etc., etc. And we say, okay, let's push it to 2021 so that we can still use it politically. And indeed, yes. You did. What happens when it comes to the final implementation of this budget? In the end, revenues were made at 419 billion, expenditure - 504 billion and deficit - 85 billion PLN. That's how the budget ended. The question is, can you compare it at all? Please note that, with regard to issues relating to changes in this budget, we are dealing with a huge scale. Let me just remind you about heading 853: Other social policy tasks. In October, you revised the budget and added PLN 27 billion to this position. Mandatory social security - you added 11 billion PLN, public administration - 10 billion PLN, transport, communications - 8 billion PLN, national defence, where we said: you have to spend on health protection and not on tanks - you added 2 billion PLN. Are you talking about health care? Do you know how much you've added to this draft budget? A billion zlotys. A billion zlotys, while this was the most important issue in 2020. You put more into mining and mining because you used COVID to do it. Somehow you have to save these collapsing mines and cover the energy deficit managed by all these losers, and you have also added billions of zlotys. All this money is now hidden in different funds. Let me just remind you that the Prime Minister shared all these funds. There was, for example, a political division in the Local Investment Fund. After all, it is not known why you have invested PLN 1.5 billion in the Reprivatization Fund. Now there's 2 billion on this fund. The Intervention Backup Fund has invested 4 billion. 2.5 Of course, billions are still lying. Labour Fund - 23 billion, Social Insurance Fund - 38 billion. We know that you have tasks in 2021, but do not deceive Poles, that in 2020 you only saved the Polish economy from the pandemic, because unfortunately that was not the case. The Left Club, taking into account all the things we could talk about here for hours, will vote against approving the report on the implementation of the budget for 2020 and against granting discharge to the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u18	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mr Czesław Siekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my surprise and even concern about the absence of the Minister of Finance. Although there is, as always, Deputy Minister Skuz and he was during the long work of the committee, which we judge very positively, in fact former representatives... was the President of the NBP, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, but it is a pity that they did not make it to hear the speeches of the Members. Apparently important state duties, more important than the Sejm meeting, led them out of this room. Of course, it surprises me that there is no head of the Ministry of Finance. I'm getting to the point. The analysis of the implementation of the State budget for 2020 is difficult because it concerns a specific period, a pandemic period. This is understandable and I think that those who say that this budget is linked to what is happening today in 2021 are right. Probably when we discuss the 2021 budget, we should also reach out and analyse it in the context of the 2020 budget. It is understandable, ladies and gentlemen of the House have said so. But the unexplainable thing is that in this budget, it's hiding or hiding out there, which NIK simply calls unprecedented ways of hiding the real scale of state spending. I don't know what that's for. We need to tell the truth about the situation, the more that we will understand a lot of things, because we know what the situation in the country is, that there is a pandemic period. It is also a budget of major shortages in terms of financing important social areas. First of all, health care. The pandemic period has shown what is really the situation and what needs to be done for health care. Secondly, education, there was a lot of talk about this yesterday. Thirdly, agriculture must also be mentioned. Of course, it is also important to stress that there was a rapid response to emerging difficulties after 15 March in terms of funding from individual targets. Maybe faster, sometimes irrational, but it can be explained in some way, explained. In Poland, we have seen a growing temptation for years to avoid the rules and principles of responsible and secure fiscal policy. Polish Development Fund, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and institutions outside the state budget - 51 new funds have been created since 2016. They are indebted on behalf of the State to finance government programmes, excluding the parliament and national definition of sovereign public debt. At the end of 2020, outside parliamentary control, this debt was 220 billion, probably now, this year, if it goes well, it may not exceed 300 billion. The increase in public debt was planned and carried out without the State budget. This is a very serious charge that the Supreme Audit Chamber points out. It can be concluded that the government wrote one in the budget and did what he thought. This has resulted in a significant blackout of the real picture of public finances. The financing of debt outside the budget - what was mentioned here - causes increased costs. In addition, part of the expenditure from the State budget identified as expenditure carried out in 2020 has not actually been incurred in that period, but has only been transferred to the accounts of the funds for which it remained unused until the end of 2020. As a result, they were included in the 2020 deficit and will not burden the state budget in 2021, i.e. Forty-fifty billion gambles. Of course, it's not really a bad thing, but it's something you have to talk about. I know there's some savings here that you had to keep, but you don't have to hide them. The 2020 budget is a broad stream of expenditure outside the stabilising expenditure rule. The government seems to have forgotten the existence of such an instrument as an expenditure rule. In the Public Finance Act - which was suspended, but still in force - debt limits, you can say, have ceased to be respected, but what can be explained and what other countries have been doing in terms of rising debt levels. But it all has some limits, and it feels like it's being used to loosen up, that lack of rule, up to a little bit of a well-thought-out financial policy. As far as investments are concerned, we can see that they are at a very low level, private investment. We know what this means, that they are at a lower level: some actions are a little deterring entrepreneurs, the investment rate has fallen to 17%. And yet it was announced at 21%. As far as the NBP cases are concerned, there are, of course, a number of comments. I think that this intervention, when it comes to currency buying, served certain objectives, and it was also about making a greater contribution to the budget. There are still many things worth saying about local government, but I think that you will tell Krzysztof Paszyk about this. You're welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u20	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Confederation on this issue will be presented by Mr Artur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I listened to the speeches of the representatives of Law and Justice and the President of the NBP and I heard... [[Voice from the room: Don't you need masks?]] ...as far-reaching complacency as rarely happens here on this platform. For starters, I heard from him that the emergency shield was working perfectly. So perfect, that for example. The fitness industry has just filed an application, a collective suit against the Treasury, demanding compensation for illegal lockdown and explaining that from an anti-crisis shield, which was so phenomenally built that it saved everyone - you know - a little over 15% benefited companies in the fitness industry. The remaining, more than 80%, were left to themselves, but, of course, under the gigantic penalties of 30,000. zł mandate for opening the gym because Law and Justice so requested. [[Because they had to work in black.]] Mr Glapiński also said that unemployment did not increase. This is a great success of the government. Do you know why unemployment in Poland hasn't increased? Because Poles simply cannot afford to be unemployed. When you shut down the restaurants, pubs, gyms, theatres, operas, movies, all those people had to do something. And you know how that turned out? It ended so that in my Music Theatre in Gdynia there is an actor who now brings me pizza, and he is not unemployed. The great success of your government. Your government is working so brilliantly that this actor from the Music Theatre is not unemployed, thanks to you. He's delivering pizza now. Statistically, it counts as working, doesn't it? He didn't register as unemployed, Mr. Chairman. A great success of yours. You're talking about the fact that Poles' income is growing, but you're completely forgetting that inflation exists. And about inflation Mr. Glapiński said such nonsense that he should be fired. You're talking about income rising. You raise the lowest national laws, thus increasing the national average. You forget to tell Poles that this also increases the rate of ZUS, you forget to tell Poles that it increases all prices. You drive inflation, you make the price of everything rise, especially services, because employees are suddenly getting more expensive. You don't care. Oh, and, uh, I'm sorry, because I'm running out of time -- the tax on these employees is higher. Thanks to the fact that you raise the lowest national, the Treasury gains the most, it gets more than this employee gets. You're evil geniuses. You're just evil geniuses. It's about inflation. He said about inflation that it did not affect the wallet of Poles. It doesn't work, we're getting better with inflation. Everything's getting more expensive, and we're getting better. The government of law and justice is making us more and more expensive. You guys are really geniuses. Listen up, guys. There's a lot to talk about. I brought this prop with me, and he's already a little out of date. I'll show you here because the cameras are recording this way. This is the 35 taxes that raised the Law and Justice, but the board does not take into account the last months, because this is an old board, more than six months ago. Now there's over 40 of them. This is your way of patching a hole, ladies and gentlemen. This is your way of making it happen, even though we know perfectly well that you have to patch it up. You're talking about an anti-crisis shield, you're still bragging about how it helped entrepreneurs. I don't remember a businessman working on an anti-crisis shield because, as we suggested, a team that created an anti-crisis shield, people in the industry, you said that law and justice couldn't handle it. What did your representatives say? They said it would be best if the opposition kept quiet. 'Cause if it's quiet, it won't bother you, maybe it will. You've been so insolent. You didn't want to listen to people in the industry, which is why these industries are acting against you right now. You've created an anti-crisis shield on the basis of the "it seems to us." Although none of you have ever led anything in your lives alone. In this team, which created the shield, there were no people from the industry, there were people from the Treasury companies and from ministries who have no idea what it's like to run their own business. Minister Patkowski is here with us, who said that the middle class is the one who makes 4,000. gross zloty. So the middle class according to the wizard of Polish finance is a man who earns enough that he is able to rent an apartment in Warsaw and then ride on mineral water for the rest of the month. So congratulations on your well-being. Congratulations to Mr. Glapiński, congratulations to this government. It's time to go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u22	Thank you very much, sir. And don't comment on your comments when presenting your position, Mr President. And now Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wouldn't really exaggerate if I started by saying that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki had raped public finances in 2020. Creative accounting, pushing expenditure beyond the budget bill, but above all clearing debts from earlier years under the cloak of COVID-19 has already become a routine in the Ministry of Finance. This situation is best illustrated by the discrepancy between the government budget deficit, which amounted to PLN 85 billion in 2020, and the corresponding public debt calculated according to the EU methodology, which amounted to PLN 290 billion and reached - note - PLN 1 336 billion. Difference? Over 200 billion PLN is almost 10% GDP. This is the sound public finances according to Prime Minister Morawiecki. How did you hide it? It is not true that this is the result of an epidemic and the government's support for the economy. During that time, various entities were handed over treasury bonds and loans instead of grants not to fight COVID-19, but to implement the policy of the Government of Law and Justice, which is to ensure that it is re-elected. This money - a total of PLN 30 billion spent without deficit - received, among others. universities. After all, yesterday we heard how much you need to change and submit ideology at universities to your own politics. It is of course public television and Polish Radio, but also infrastructure companies where you can classically waste money. Of course, we also have a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund, which should be used to set aside future generations for pensions. You guys are just eating him up, and the money's steaming him up. And that was another PLN 11 billion. This is, I repeat, the cost of law and justice policy, not any COVID. The fight against COVID is of course another debt hidden under the carpet, because it is PLN 166 billion of BGK and PFR bonds. On the other hand, as far as macro data are concerned, Mr President, I will tell you what made you maintain a slight decline in GDP. This is mostly export. The positive balance of trade in goods abroad was record-breaking, the highest since the 1990s, and the surplus on account amounted to PLN 82 billion, i.e. 3.5% GDP. [[Voice from the room: I think that's good.]] It is our business partners from abroad who help us, and you can only insult them or force them to sell shares, as with TVN. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: They do not require...]] The investment rate has once again reached the bottom. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But don't disturb me. I have the right to express my position - truthfully, and not in accordance with your message of the day -. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: There is a technical error here.]] Member, wait a minute. Wait a minute, Member. Once again, I ask you very much, Mr President and colleagues, not to comment or interfere with the speech. Mr. Chairman, you'll have time. After all, there is plenty of time for this to be addressed. [[Voice from the room: We are under provocation.]] There you go. So, so you gentlemen can calm down... [[The voice from the room: That's too much.]] ...this surplus in exports we have thanks to our partners from the European Union (the bell) - I understand, Mr Marshal, that I can finish - while the investment rate has once again reached the bottom. Was it so bad everywhere? Ours was 16.7%. This is the lowest rate among the 11 countries of the European Union combined in Central and Eastern Europe. For comparison e.g. in the Czech Republic, the investment rate is 25% GDP, in Hungary - 27% , above 20% is in Estonia, Croatia, Lithuania, Latvia, Romania. The world will not wait for Poland, we will simply be poor. Inflation - a lot of people talked about it. They drive first-needed products, such as food, housing, energy carriers. That's also the effect of your politics. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will not support discharge for the government. We call for the report on the implementation of the budget to be rejected for 2020. I'll deliver this to the marshal in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Surprise, surprise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u24	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Girzyński to present the position of the Polish Case Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2020 budget was originally adopted as a balanced budget, and it certainly was a success of the government. Even if this sustainability was the result of a certain financial engineering - because it was, it is not a secret - it is a certain achievement, which was difficult for previous governments. On the other hand, the problems started during the implementation of this budget. They were partly unblamed by the government, but they were partly culpable and I would like to say so. What happened in the spring of last year, the appearance of the Coronavirus that touched the whole world, was something that turned the world economy upside down at all. And it's not weird, we're all scared. Fear is natural, even when someone watches a horror movie and knows it's just a movie, then if there's a scene that freezes blood in his veins, he gets scared, it's a natural reflex. But after that first reflex... And here the government's actions in the spring of last year were also in some way rational, because it reacted as it reacted, because it had to be dealt with somehow. At that time, they really tried to introduce shields, and it really worked. Even if there were losses in the economy, there was a proper response. Unfortunately, when we realized, and everyone realized that the coronavirus and the whole epidemic that affected the world was something that we had to learn to live with, then the further reactions were completely irrational. [[Applause]] What was done in the world - and also in Poland - since September last year, was something without logic unfortunately. What the medical board supposedly did. We already know that by leaking out of the media today. And it wasn't the Russians who let it go, it was our services playing internal factions, let's just say it. Because if the Russians snuck into those boxes, they'd still be monitoring them and not reveal anything. Today we know that this shield did not really work at the time, and the decisions were made completely unrealistic. Because closing individual industries, such as the fitness industry, the hotel industry, making some weird recipes that can only be every third or every fourth active room in the hotel, as if three empty rooms caused that there would be no transmission of virus between them, were all irrational actions causing certain losses in the economy. These losses were skillfully - in some way thanks to the policy of the National Bank of Poland - levelled, because the national bank, and here I will also refer to the National Bank of Poland, behaved like all central banks: he printed money. He did it quite well, and that's what a bank needs to be praised for, because when everyone prints, we can't be the ones who don't print. On the other hand, what else should the National Bank of Poland be commended for? For doing something that other banks don't do, defending Polish cash. What we have in the world today is absolutely unacceptable because we are trying to eliminate cash by taking away our freedom - by taking away our freedom. There are some doubts about the NBP's interest rate policy. I appreciate the fact that it defends some credit pressure, but it also devalues our savings, and we actually have today, given inflation, negative interest rates, and anyone who has savings, loses. I would also like to point out that the inflation targets (the bell), as Prof. Glapiński said, are those external stimuli that occur, but the bank should consider instead of saying that they have happened, because we all pay for the emissions, we know. In summary, near the Polish cases will be against discharge in connection with the implementation of the state budget. However, despite some reservations, we welcome the report of the National Bank of Poland, which actually supported our economy in this difficult situation. I would like to draw your attention - and this is the last sentence - to one thing that needs to be regulated, because the Polish state should not pretend that there are no matters. There's a problem with cryptovalut. This issue must be taken up and this is a challenge for the National Bank of Poland as well as for us. We should settle this normally, not pretend that this problem doesn't exist, because in the situation that happens, people run away in this kind of solution and we have to help everyone to do it rationally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u26	Thank you very much, sir. [[The voice from the hall: Zbyszek, but you have nothing to applaud.]] Mr President, this remark was inappropriate. And for what? Mrs Hennig-Klosko, we would ask for a change to the proposal, because it is incorrect. If you wish, please come to the Registry. Now, please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Costowniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating the implementation of the 2020 budget, a budget that is probably unique in every respect because of what happened not only in Poland but also in the whole world on 15 March. In mid-March 2020, as a result of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the world economy experienced a negative supply and demand shock on an unprecedented scale, which has quite significantly affected macroeconomic processes in Poland and in other countries affected by the pandemic, including the sudden slowdown of economic activity and the collapse of current trends in most macroeconomic categories. The situation caused by COVID-19 forced an update of the basic budgetary and macroeconomic parameters. I think we all agree on that. Ladies and gentlemen! The suspension of the stable spending rule by the European Commission - not, as some in this House say, by the Polish government - was a signal when it comes to the possibility of very many financial instruments being used by individual countries to save economies, not only European but also global. In the wake of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the immediate response of the government was a number of simultaneous and constantly modified actions, in line with the reported needs and expectations, focused primarily on protection. Here it is important to emphasise the protection of health, as well as jobs and to ensure the financial security of businesses and citizens. This was achieved primarily by creating an entire anti-crisis system, which included packages of laws, including a package of laws called a financial shield. Thanks to the above actions in Poland it was possible to avoid, ladies and gentlemen, interrupting the supply chain, as many have already said here, e.g. maintaining a high level of exports, the mass bankruptcy of Polish companies, Polish companies, therefore we have such a good rate of unemployment, the loss of liquidity by companies - and here a very low bow towards not only the government, but also the National Bank of Poland, which in due time applied, also immediately, instruments that allowed companies to maintain, as I said, liquidity - and thus a significant increase in unemployment and the dramatic deterioration of the situation of households. According to Eurostat data, Poland had the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union for the first time in January 2021. I think this is a very good first commentary on the whole budget implementation situation, but also on the use of individual instruments that allow for a relatively normal transition through what we call a great economic dullness, not only in Poland, but also in Europe or in the world, related to COVID-19. The data published by the CSO shows that the economic situation in Poland in 2020 was generally better than the one envisaged at the stage of preparing the macroeconomic scenario for the revision of the Budget Act, which took place in October 2020. We talk a lot here, that's what we say, fairy tales. Some even talk about barbarism. So that we do not give in specifically to these fairy tales, maybe I'll give you a few macroeconomic indicators and numbers with which it's probably the hardest to discuss and which are the easiest to interpret, ladies and gentlemen. The level of GDP in Poland set at the beginning, in the first budget, because remember that it was updated, was 3.7%. The implementation took place at 2,7% In minus. You could say that's wrong. Of course, in relation to what we assumed at the beginning of the year, not knowing at all what the pandemic would be, you can say that, but putting it together with a value of 6.4% on the downside for the European Union, you can say that this is a very good result, although none of us would want this result in a normal economic situation, because then it would actually be a negative value. But let us remember that the level of GDP in Poland was almost 2.5 times better than in the European Union. The economy of the European Union has shrunk by 6.4 points, and the Polish economy - only by 2.7 in relation to what we planned. Indeed, individual consumption decreased by 3.1%. investment has also fallen, but it must also be made clear here that investments at this level have been sustained mainly because of how the Polish state reacted to the whole crisis by pumping huge money into the sphere of domestic investment - I am thinking about state investments, directly: government - but also in local governments. One of the messengers mentioned export. Indeed, this factor, this export value, was excellent in 2020. Exports at minus 0,2% in relation to the assumed result, looking at the scale of the European Union. There were countries where the level of exports dropped by several, several, even to tens, percent. Here very low bows mainly for two areas: for industrial production in Poland, which was maintained at a very high level, thanks to the strong support of the Polish government, anti-crisis shields and financial shields, but also very strong support of the National Bank of Poland, about which literally in a moment, and for large agricultural exports. State budget deficit of minus 3,7% in relation to GDP. You've talked a lot about public debt. Public debt actually rose to 57% , but if we look at the values that are in the European Union, we will see that debt in the European Union reaches 92.5% If I'm reading the chart correctly. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that public debt has increased everywhere and this is not only a problem of Poland, but it is a problem of the increase of public debt worldwide, I think that so far unprecedented in some areas of our globe even during World War II. Indeed, countries in the world have borrowed a lot of money, pumped it into their economies - see the United States, see also the European Union. Pay dynamics. Real wage growth has been maintained in Poland - real wage growth is 1.6%. And I will go, ladies and gentlemen, to the interest rates and the role of the NBP also in this budget implementation process and retain at a certain high level the coefficients of our economy. The role of NBP, ladies and gentlemen, was invaluable. The NBP, which has a primary inflationary target, has gone far beyond what is the basis for its activities. The National Bank of Poland and the Monetary Policy Council strongly engaged in shaping positive elements of economic life in 2020. Let me remind you - from March to May three interventions in the area of interest rates. It's rare. The response time - immediate from the NBP - is one of the elements that caused... [[We're gonna cry.]] ...that the level of these indicators was relatively well maintained and the Polish economy did not take it so hard. Pawn pawnshop rate of 0,5% , a deposit rate of 0%. This caused Polish companies, ladies and gentlemen, to benefit from cheap money to maintain their liquidity and to maintain their... [[Game in the O.R.]] I did not disturb you, Madam Member. ...the possibility of further shaping production and exports. What is extremely important is the level of unemployment - the lowest level of unemployment in the European Union. All these actions of the government, but also of the National Bank of Poland and Parliament, because this must be clearly said, and the pumping of more than 200 billion PLN caused that in Poland the economic situation, especially in the area of unemployment, seems to be a good situation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - all social programmes in such a difficult social and economic situation in Poland have been maintained. This, in my opinion, is the best indication that this budget is supported by all of us, regardless of political interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u28	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u29	Dear Marshal, High Seym! In my speech, I would like to focus on the commentary on the NBP report on the implementation of monetary policy objectives last year. Art. 227 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides: NBP is responsible for the value of Polish money. Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 The NBP Act states: The primary objective of NBP's activities is to maintain a stable level of prices. These are the constitutional tasks of the National Bank of Poland. What about these tasks? Well, it's quite different from the one presented in Mr Glapiński's speech. Firstly, in the last 2 years the price level has increased by 8.2%. [[Applause]] For 24 monthly observations in 22 cases, inflation remained above the inflation target. Only in the last quarter did prices rise at a rate of 4.5% year to year. These are no longer short-term deviations that the President was talking about. It's a systematic crossing of the target. [[Voice from the room: Drama.]] For almost 2 years the National Bank of Poland has not carried out the basic objective of maintaining a stable level of prices. Secondly, in the last 24 months Polish gold has weakened against the main currencies, including the US dollar by 3%, to the euro by 8%, against the Swiss franc by 10.5% - Ladies and gentlemen of France, thank President Glapiński... [[Scandal.]] ...and against the British pound by over 12%. The NBP did not implement so a constitutional obligation [[Applause]] taking care of the stability of Polish money. On the contrary, last year we saw foreign exchange interventions carried out by the NBP for a very little understandable purpose, which of course led to a weakening of the golden rate, and this is, after all, an act contrary to the objective of the policy and constitutional obligation of the NBP. What are the consequences of this? As a result of price increases, the purchasing power of the average monthly salary decreased by about PLN 250 and the average pension by more than PLN 100. This, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing more than an inflationary tax imposed on all of us. [[Applause]] And we're paying that tax. In total, the income of the population in the last year has been reduced as a result of this loss of purchasing power by more than PLN 45 billion - so much we have all lost in terms of the ability to buy goods and services. And, of course, this inflationary tax is, above all, burdened by less affluent social groups. In this regard, it is shocking that, of course, this does not apply to members of the NBP's board of directors who raised their salaries last year by 20%. [[Applause]] The NBP is responsible for this cost to the company with the government. In the last 18 months, the supply of cash in circulation and reserve money has increased by almost 50%. This is the highest increase in 20 years. I'm warning you, this hot money is waiting for an opportunity to spend. But NBP doesn't see any reason to change politics. We have heard here the complacency of your NBP President's boast and the assessment that the cost is the result measures of transitional and monetary policy-independent factors. In my opinion, the NBP really follows fragile ice and does not take into account a whole range of risks associated with the consolidation of these market trends, including the persistence of certain demand factors. First of all, I mean increase in wages. How can an increase in wages of 10% per year be seen as a factor independent of monetary policy? This is the proof that there are secondary monetary effects of all the shocks that took place last year. Industrial production is growing by 10%. per year. This, of course, should be our pleasure, but this creates certain pressure on costs, and in a situation where there is no labour force, we will have to shift labour costs to prices. Moreover, the policy of almost zero interest rates did not translate, my dear country... We have heard opinions that this is such a great factor in supporting the economy. No, ladies and gentlemen. Credit levels have not changed since last year, throughout the year. [[Applause]] The interest rate policy, i.e. zero interest rates, only supported the government because it reduced the cost of borrowing and issuing bonds. Let's not talk about helping the economy. It wasn't there. Finally, as I said, it is about inflation expectations. This is a very important factor that shapes the behaviour of market participants and, in our case, it is amazing that in the subsequent communications of the Monetary Policy Council, there is no concept of inflation expectations at all. This is a very big oversight. Ladies and gentlemen! For the last two years, we have therefore faced a situation where the National Bank of Poland has focused primarily on supporting government policy at the expense of rising inflation and weakening the gold. This is, in my opinion, a clear violation of the constitutional and statutory obligations of the central bank. [[Applause]] The Civic Coalition Club will oppose the adoption of the information of the President of Glapiński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u30	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u31	I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club regarding information on guarantees and guarantees given in 2020 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. In 2020 the Treasury provided four guarantees of PLN 5 billion in support of investment activities. Three of them concerned railway infrastructure implemented by PKP PLK, one concerning the BGK guarantee for the National Road Fund implementing road infrastructure as part of EIB financing. These guarantees do not raise objections. The State Treasury guarantees were also covered by BGK's obligations arising from bonds issued to the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, for a total amount of nearly PLN 117 billion, and the commitments of the Polish Development Fund resulting from bonds issued for the execution of shields, for a total amount of PLN 70 billion. In addition, BGK, as a state legal entity, provided a guarantee of 75 000 in support of entrepreneurship. entities for the amount of PLN 25,6 billion and under the shield of the Liquid Guarantee Fund - 1600 guarantees for the amount of PLN 15,5 billion. In total, therefore, BGK granted a guarantee of over PLN 229 billion. The guarantees given by BGK alone do not raise objections as such, it does not raise objections Also their service. The purpose of these emissions is also not reservations. It was helping industries at risk of pandemics, unfortunately, helping a hole like a thrush. What is highly worrying or even alarming is the fact that because Polish debt limits, government debt limits against GDP of 55% According to the Public Finance Act, 60% According to the constitutional provision, they do not take into account PFR or BGK bonds, that PLN 229 billion is outside the constitutional limit. It was therefore a specific programme of quantitative relaxation. And not so much the fact that there are limits, but the fact that, in the current state of the state budget, we are approaching these limits dangerously... If not for this fact, the loosening program would look like it looks elsewhere, i.e. the Treasury would issue bonds to finance aid packages. However, under the government of PiS the public debt increased by 60%: from PLN 900 billion in 2015 to nearly PLN 1.5 trillion this year. Expenditure on bombastic projects such as the excavation of Vistula Mierzieja, now planned reconstruction of the Saski Palace, monstrous amounts paid to sweaters or friends stuffed in profitable companies of the Treasury or supervisory boards, gigantic funding of the Church, its agendas such as the undertakings of Mr.Rydzyk, non-existent respirators, envelope elections and hundreds of similar ones. All this caused a sharp increase in public debt. The Prime Minister Morawiecki's government is therefore trying to hide the scale of the drama by pushing it beyond the budget by means of accounting tricks and releasing funding for programmes, passing it on to around budget entities. By issuing bonds, by adding money, it's made more. There's inflation. First board, please. Currently inflation in Poland is the highest in Europe. There you can see red inflation in Poland - the highest in Europe, followed by Hungary and the Czech Republic. Prices in Poland - I would like another board - are soaring now. Here we have food prices, agricultural prices - I will ask the next board - we have here a weakening one, as Mr Dariusz Rosati, a gold one, spoke of in relation to all currencies. Another board, please. Here we have electricity prices that are just beginning to grow. Hard money has run out and, worse still, it is not known whether the government will now receive any funds from the Reconstruction Fund. The refusal to respect EU legislation threatens that we will not get it. It's an alarm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u33	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The 2020 budget is another budget in recent years which has not foreseen any compensation for the loss of PIT income by local governments due to the income tax exemption of persons up to 26 years old, the reduction of the lowest tax threshold from 18% to 17% and the increase in minimum wage and changes in service of years. I will show how it looks, on the example of a specific municipality of Trzcianka, the district of Czarnkowsko-rzcianecki, Wielkopolskie Voivodeship. As a result of tax changes, the municipality of Trzcianka was deprived of tax revenue from PIT of PLN 0.5 million in 2020. Between 2016 and 2018, the increase in income from PIT amounted to PLN 3.8 million (Dawn) and the increase in salaries of teachers and employees in the budgetary sphere amounted to almost PLN 9 million. In 2020 the budget of the three schools amounted to PLN 44 million with barely 20 million state subsidies. Between 2016 and 2019 educational expenditure increased by more than 8 million PLN and the subsidy by only 2 million PLN. Government grants for commissioned tasks therefore cover only 70% the costs of carrying out the tasks of the municipality. The rest of the city has to make a profit. The state - I am talking about the majority of the parliament - looks at local governments through the prism of politicians, politics as something that needs to be combated, and I will remind my dear colleagues that local governments are local communities, these are people. These people today have a big problem, because from year to year this money for very socially sensitive services is getting less and less, and especially as regards local government, education is an investment in subsequent generations. Unfortunately, this budget is not conducive to the development and growth of these local communities. We turn to this as the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party every year, telling you that this is not the way. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say today that once again you are not taking into account this extremely important problem. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u34	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Sipera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2020 was a specific year, a year which no one predicted, a year which, first of all, was characterized by the fact that we had to change the provisions of the budget law, but also all the dynamic issues that affected Poles during this period were over-normative. Besides, the president of NIK explicitly stated in his report that it was a year, it was an incident. This is also the way it needs to be treated, and I would ask you very much to remember that, too, from the opposition. The question of this challenge, which was this year, the huge unplanned expenditure in the state budget, in the changes to the budget, but also in the issue that no one ever anticipated, 80 million police controls that had to control... As we hear today, some say: COVID, maybe some COVID then was or was not. Of course, it can be described as pastiche, but these are facts. Therefore, I will focus on only a few aspects of expenditure, generally speaking, of the state administration, including primarily the functioning of the Prime Minister's law firm, as well as the activities that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has in his duties. The budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers increased enormously in this specific year, because from 1 billion to 10 billion, precisely because there were unforeseen situations related to COVID. During this time, it was necessary to coordinate - please countries, no one predicted this, and it had to do so - to prepare all coordination, establish a network of hospitals, decide on these elements, then prepare for vaccination actions, etc., etc. [[And 100,000. People died.]] This had to be done, but on the assumption that we also carried out all the duties assigned to the Prime Minister's law firm, which he has every year, and that is a lot, because running all the cases in the country requires such coordination, and the additional elements of the COVID have imposed on this particular zone. In 2020 only 34 people were appointed to the civil service, but this was due to this specific period. They were all graduates of the National School of Public Administration. The units that the Prime Minister oversees, which during this period were functioning and were positively evaluated by the NIK, with only some elements of comments, are very, very many, but those that are worth mentioning, which function as important democratic elements, are the National Institute of Freedom, the Civil Society Development Fund, the Public Use Support Fund, as well as the Eastern Studies Centre. Marka Karpia, Instytut Zachodni, Rada do Rozbiorcji, Instytut Co-operation Polsko-Hungarianjska, Instytut Europeanzne, Polski Instytut Ekonomiczny. The second important and perhaps even fundamental aspect, because here the decisions for which the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration was responsible were those of the largest components: the police, the fire department, the border protection service or the State Security Service, the Central Command of the PSP. The expenditure that was incurred last year is almost PLN 26 billion, in this specific period with an additional component that has been running for several years. I will mark this because we have recently had the opportunity to talk about this at a meeting of one of the committees, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, where it was a good assessment. Special funds, including above all the Police Modernization Fund. For this fund it was almost PLN 1600 million. Very well-placed funds, well used, so needed, among others. during the period when there was a need for additional police and other services duties, such as fire department, SOP or border service. Those measures were necessary. At this point, it is also a matter of thanks to all those who led it: from Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and Minister Zieliński, who were the initiators, to other ministers, i.e. Minister Brudziński, Minister Witek, Minister Kamiński, who continues to do so. This program fits perfectly into the element connected with the functioning of the Polish state and gives us stability. What was done in 2020 was a visible effect, among others. these investments. There are things that are also very important, which are often less noticeable, but concern the safety of Poles and touch on those elements for which the State is responsible, for which the Minister of Home Affairs is also responsible. Coordination with the Emergency Notification Centre. It is a very important component, which was also rebuilt last year, which protects the safety of Poles and shortens time. As you know, last year there were specific responsibilities, not only resulting from the rescue itself, but also from the service of the COVID, a huge expense. Ladies and gentlemen, one more important thing. A number of these funds, which were transferred by the government, were spent by the voivods. And here also a huge bow and thanks to all those who were responsible for this in the voivodships, because this implementing structure was just executed by the voivodship offices, agendas and inspections. A huge effort was made last year to do these things. It is a real thing because it shows how the state works together and how it performs its functions with the help and cooperation of local governments. And the last two issues, two or three digressions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still an element in public space that local governments are being deprived of funds. In COVID this year - I checked this information, please check how you do not believe - the loss of income of all local governments in Poland amounted to 1.9% and in 2020 alone additional investment funds from the government of local governments received PLN 12 billion. These are the facts that exist. And talking about it all the time about how there's a tragic situation... This is also what we expected from the NBP president, but precisely because we have a government that currently governs the Polish state, the Government of Law and Justice under the direction of Mateusz Morawiecki, who can make decisions, quick decisions, concrete decisions, we have a situation that gives a good answer that this is a pillow. Yeah, it actually worked. Like a pillow, because it secured it, it did what had to be done. Mr Dziambor talked about the fact that it was the PiS that led to the situation that some of them were shut down and so on. No, ladies and gentlemen, these were applications submitted by companies. The answer was quick. If someone met the requirements, they would receive money immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not responsible for the gray area either, for everything. Some people couldn't put it together, but in this case it's not the government's fault, it's another structure that needs to be leaned on as if it were another topic. And finally, the last topic I wanted to bring up, which I was also interested in. If any of your fellow Members who are sitting in this Chamber have created a budget... I was the creator and contractor of a dozen budgets in my life. I hear a discussion about it. If there were money in the budget and the possibility of using it as non-extinguishable resources, but this would not be done, we would actually be dealing with what Mr Kowalczyk said. A boss like that, I don't know, the old man, the mayor, the president, he's miserable. Those measures are. [[But there was no means. Deficit...]] Mrs. Member! Don't yell at me because you're screaming all the time. This is the system you have: screaming, screaming and screaming. Let's talk about arguments, let's talk about specific things. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! Show me someone who doesn't have a deficit in local governments unless they're outstanding. Everyone's got to go and everybody's got to deal with it. Do not accuse the Polish state, the Prime Minister, the Government and the majority of Parliament that they are using their time. If we're settled, we'll see in the election. Today I am glad, I am proud that Prime Minister Morawiecki is just the person who gives this tone, knows about finance, knows that it needs to be used. You are shocked that we are able to go through this situation as a Polish country in quite good condition. It's not perfect, of course, but no elements of the law have been violated anywhere. And today there is information from this Chamber, first of all that the state budget was implemented in accordance with the law and is assessed positively by the NIK, although with comments that are clear. This is not a negative assessment and please do not lie to the fact. [[Voice from the room: It needs to be complete.]] The second thing is the issue of funds that are funds that were and are commitments. There is no violation of the law. That's what was taking advantage of the opportunity. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this policy pursued by the Government of Law and Justice will not be the policy that the Minister spoke of: there is no money and there will be no money. The money's there, it's there. And it's money for the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[That punch line was excellent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u36	Thank you very much, sir. By giving the floor to Mrs Krystina Skowronska, I also wish you a happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u37	Thank you very much, Marshal. But we're getting to the point. That's the kind of wallet you left to the Poles. This naked wallet, these debts will have to pay off the next generation. [[Applause]] And what we're trying to say is it was the year of the biggest scandal. [[What happened?]] Here's the evidence: the Supreme Auditorium report. Have you read it thoroughly? Did you understand that the Supreme Board of Control has shown how many mistakes you've made? Mascot scandal, case with envelope elections - PLN 70 million, case with masks - PLN 50 million, case with stitching masks, sewing - PLN 265 million. The subcarpatha proves it, Stalowa Wola is leading it. So? And you didn't do anything about it. What did you promise? [[Voice from the room: Fighting...]] You promised me it would be better. But who's better? Yours. Fat cats came out at the end. We also want to say that in this regard, the unaccounted and promises of cacanks... Medical Fund - yes, promised, no money, no implementation. What will Poles remember from last year? The exceptional cost that Mrs Leszczyn spoke of was said by Mr Rosati. For two years, 8%. Who chased us away in Europe? Hungary. You're comparing each other. High inflation - Hungary. I was gonna say we're gonna see this year through the COVID prism, ambulances, protests by health workers. How much did you give them? 10 billion PLN. Okay. But how much did you give public television so far? 10 billion PLN. Who did public television cure? [[Applause]] [[What's year to year or what?]] Oversized deaths - 100,000. persons. Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]] And if we're talking about health care... You guys like comparison, that's great. We - 5,3%, Germany - twice as much, France - twice as much, Slovakia - almost 1,5% more than us, Hungary - more than us. So who are you guys finally comparing yourselves to? What about unemployment? There was a fellow Member here who said that the actor had to deliver pizza. [[Voice from the room: Lowest, second in Europe.]] Yeah, yeah, but we have to assume that 1 million people have retired and we're gonna have to pay them. [[Were you trying to get them to work?]] What we're trying to say is that the young people have an empty wallet. That's the empty wallet you leave to the Poles. [[Applause]] You didn't do anything. There's the highest debt, the highest deficit. The Poles will have to pay it back and we will remember the cost. Finally tell the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. [[But I'm still here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure - yes, I have the pleasure of presenting the implementation of the state budget in 2020 in the field of health protection, part 46. The implementation of the state budget took place in difficult, extreme conditions and posed huge challenges both for the government and for the management of the Ministry. Despite the difficult economic situation caused by the COVID pandemic, this was the next year of the increase in health expenditure, to an extent exceeding the growth required by the Act guaranteeing the level of 6% in the end. GDP for health protection in 2024. The total public health expenditure in 2020 amounted to PLN 116.5 billion... [[Game in the O.R.]] Member, wait a minute. Can I ask you to allow me to speak with you? I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. Total public health expenditure in 2020 amounted to PLN 116.5 billion, representing 5.5% GDP, and they were higher by PLN 8.7 billion than the reference value required by the Act, which should be 5.3% GDP. It was also an investment of almost PLN 14 billion higher than the expenditure on health care in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Government of Law and Justice, the current management of the Ministry is very determined to give priority to the expenditure on health protection, despite the often difficult economic situation. Special growth dynamics date back to 2016. And so in the years 2011 and 2015 - yes, we like these comparisons, Madam, because these are the times of your incompetent governments - the increase in health expenditures in your five-year-old was 14%, by PLN 9.5 billion. [[Voice from the room: Deaths now.]] Between 2016 and 2020 this is an increase of 44%, or PLN 30.5 billion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, please. Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: NFZ.]] Can you read these numbers? I particularly stress this data, because very often in the public debate Poles are told that the expenditure on health protection is insufficient, and the lamentation is rising. We are aware of many tasks and needs that are still ahead of us, e.g. on psychotherapy, long-term care, drug monitoring, drug harm, etc. But the progress that has been made in this area Made, it's just great, it's amazing, it's incomparable with any other period. You can't lie and scream what you're trying to do. Besides, we're used to the fact that you're using a lie, you're throwing a lie straight in the eye, and you're using it publicly. But numbers and data are a fact and you can't lie about it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we add to this PLN 116.5 billion in 2020 expenditure on health protection from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, which amounted to more than PLN 10 billion, then count how much these expenditures amounted to. Definitely over PLN 120 billion. In 2015, annual expenditure on health care for your governments amounts to PLN 79 billion. Compare: 79 billion annual health expenditures to 116 billion in 2020. I don't think there's any point in discussing this anymore. Revenue in Part 46 was realised with an excess of 18% bigger than planned. How much was the expense? Health expenditure in Part 46 was at PLN 6.4 billion, i.e. 26,5% lower than in 2019 But, ladies and gentlemen, this needs to be clarified, because this argument is about to be raised that budget expenditure has fallen at the disposal of the Minister of Health for Health Protection. In the previous year, in 2019, 2700 million were allocated to the NFZ, which was used in 2020. Thus, PLN 6.5 billion must be increased by the actual resources that have been earmarked for health protection, 2700 million, and therefore there is no decrease compared to the previous year in this part of 46 and even increased. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as spending is concerned, it is known that it is mainly for health protection. The largest position, almost PLN 2 billion, is so-called. other activities. We have expenses such as PLN 500 million for the purchase of equipment, PLN 230 million for the purchase of vaccines, for benefits on COVID, which were then transferred to the COVID fund, and others. Of course, as far as the rest of the positions are concerned, clinical hospitals, highly specialised services, medical rescue, public blood services, as usual the budget was almost entirely implemented, in 99%, and included planned expenditure. Next item: higher education and science. Here the main item will be teaching and research activities of universities, material assistance for students and PhD students, as well as assistance for entities operating in the field of science and higher education. Without going into details, for example. on the use of European funds, because this has also been the case here, I would like to stress that despite such a difficult situation in the previous year, beyond these traditional expenditures in part 46 - health protection has emerged new positions. The management of the Ministry had the courage to take some new initiatives despite the difficult economic situation. Out of these expenses PLN 6600 million was created Medical Fund and in 2020 PLN 200 million was allocated for this purpose. You just said the medical fund was supposed to be, and there isn't. That is the truth coming from the opposition. In 2020 for this purpose... [[It was supposed to be $2 billion.]] ... 200 million PLN has been allocated. These are money which, according to the fund's objective, is to finance access to innovative drug therapies, treatment abroad, treatment of civilizational diseases, etc. Every year, according to the Act, no less than PLN 4 billion per year will be allocated from the budget, from voluntary contributions and donations. On 31 December the amount of PLN 200 million, which was used in part, was paid. Only 31.2% were spent , mainly for treatment outside the country and for medicines under emergency medical technology schemes. The remaining PLN 185 million with a certain end to be used in 2021. Why such low use? Since the funds were only received in December of the previous year and there was no time for use. So it is not true that the Medical Fund was to be created, and it is not. [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't.]] For the first time, the National Oncology Strategy programme for 2020-2030 was launched, for which 200 million PLN was allocated. For 2021, PLN 450 million is planned for this purpose. Despite the difficult economic and social situation, in addition to the continued 12 years of investments, new multi-annual programmes have been launched, such as the Central Integrated Clinical Hospital in Poznań, the Clinical Hospital and the Medical University in Szczecin, the regeneration and expansion of the oncology centre - an institute in Warsaw transformed into the National Institute of Oncology. The refund of medicines for pregnant women has been introduced, so-called. Weight+ programme. Compared with previous years, the implementation of computerization in health care, which was limping, has been significantly accelerated. E-direction has been launched, the patient's online account, which is extremely useful, especially at the moment when the program is being implemented. This year it already operates in many cities. It's a free, extensive diagnostic program, often on site with a medical diagnosis. At the moment it is already implemented in several cities for people over the age of 40. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the issues of reservations which have emerged that the expenditure on medical rescue has fallen, which is also not true, because the resources allocated for this purpose are in different parts, mainly in the voivod's budgets, and they have increased in these budgets. There was also a reservation that expenditure on specialized services had fallen. Well, ladies and gentlemen, some of the high-specialist benefits have been included in the basket of guaranteed benefits, as they are no longer considered to be high-specialised benefits due to the progress of medical knowledge and technology and are financed as standard medical procedures from NFZ funds. Finally, the assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber committee in Part 46 is a descriptive assessment, i.e. neither negative nor positive, and the main reservations that the Supreme Audit Board has formulated relate to irregularities in the spending of certain budget resources, e.g. when concluding contracts or purchasing equipment. The number of irregularities is estimated at approximately 0.45% or 0.46% all the health expenses, so it's a fraction. Nevertheless, this is a very serious matter for us, but I would like to point out that some of these funds - a considerable amount already claimed by the Ministry - have been recovered, some are being recovered. Part of this expenditure did not have to be implemented according to the procurement procedure, because this was allowed by the COVID Act, so that the case does not look as drastic as you present, and we must wait until all proceedings have been completed. The Supreme Audit Office itself acknowledges that the conditions under which it came to work, to make quick decisions, conditions that had never existed so far, and were therefore relatively difficult and dangerous, where there was a great deal of pressure at risk of spreading the epidemic itself, and everyone under this pressure acted, conducive to mistakes in decision-making. First of all, the Supreme Audit Office recommended that the Ministry of Health prepare a proper procedure for future events so that such situations do not take place. I hope, Minister, that the Ministry of Health will or has already started work on this procedure, as recommended by the Supreme Audit Chamber. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request a positive assessment of the report on the implementation of the State budget in part 46, despite the reservations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I think I've explained it to some extent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u40	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the floor of Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u41	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few words of truth about your fight against the VAT mob, the gambling mob. Hard data: tax arrears at the end of 2020 amounted to almost PLN 120 billion. I mean, if it's like... VAT increased from 42 billion in 2015 to 95 billion. [[Applause]] 142,000. taxpayers, which is just over 5%, are behind with PLN 89 billion. Those same taxpayers had legalized a year earlier with an amount of 86 billion. Why pay? 15 billion is the amount declared and not paid. [[Scandal.]] In the slang of tax inspectors, it was a sucker's method - that's what we used to call it. When checking a contractor, such a crook is clean, after all he made a declaration. This would not have been possible if it had not been for the dismantling of the tax control and omission of the establishment of the Central Register of Invoices. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] It has not been implemented in the last six years, and according to your own estimates it was 36 billion a year to the state budget. The state's excellent effectiveness illustrates what is happening in the area of gambling. Since March 2017, 2437 entities have been punished since the creation of the cash register. Administrative decisions were imposed on almost PLN 1.5 billion. In fact, PLN 45 million was obtained, out of which PLN 31 million was voluntarily executed 14 million. In 2020 - PLN 350 million and voluntary contributions - PLN 600 000. zł. Not even a zloty-zero was executed. [[Applause]] Effectiveness at 0.17%. That means the cashier's organs weren't too much of a liability. But it lasts four years. The failure of the organs of the cashiers is surprising, especially since of the total number of 2437 people punished for more than half of the number of punished - 1664 penalty entities were imposed at least twice, and on 1/3, i.e. 912 persons - at least three times. So we're dealing with a redecisive situation, and the organs remain extremely understanding and inconsequential in their actions to claim debts. Zero effectiveness in the enforcement of penalties is accompanied by the generation of gigantic costs exceeding the obtained, miserable very, proceeds. Cashier costs, e.g. in 2020, this is PLN 3 million for pay for inspection and testing of automatic machines, a dozen or so people were earning on it. The record player only in the second half of the year - 423 thousand. zł. [[I think he's a friend of the Prime Minister's.]] Added to this are the costs of storing occupied slots - 12 600 PLN. I'll remind you of that army of officials that's doing this. What's the deal with this fake fight against illegal gambling in this fake fight against the mob, including VAT? What is the point of such repeated punishment and non-execution? Why so lenient? Is this just a failure? I can't really believe it. Isn't that an admission to robbing the state? [[Applause]] Perhaps unselfish. We also have examples of involvement and officials of the Ministry of Finance, and employees of the KAS in this type of activity. Disassembly of fiscal control. Marian Banasia's pseudoreform brings results today, unfortunately. All I can say is we warned you. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u42	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anita Sowinska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u43	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. It must be objectively stated that 2020 was one of the most difficult for the financial management of countries. The pandemic has caused economic and financial shock, which has led to the need to make quick decisions to protect jobs and maintain the liquidity of companies. In response to the crisis, the central banks of most developed countries have reduced short-term interest rates to minimum levels. In Poland too, the Monetary Policy Council reduced interest rates below 1%. In the short term, it can be said that this decision has provided adequate liquidity in the economy. However, it should be noted that part of the NBP's activities, particularly those undertaken in the medium term, were insufficient. The main task of the National Bank of Poland is to maintain a stable level of prices, i.e. to prevent excessive inflation. According to the monetary policy strategy, the NBP's objective is to stabilise inflation at 2.5% with an acceptable variation interval plus minus 1 percentage point. Has this objective been met? In 2020 inflation was an average of 3.4% I mean, barely, barely in the limit. Unfortunately, 2021 brought a significant price increase. In the first half of this year, Poland and Hungary are countries with the highest inflation levels in the European Union. In April the price increase year-to-year was 5.2% , and in June - 4.4%. We are in second place in price increases, ahead of us (the bell) only Hungary. It burns everything. Services by 6%, housing costs - 6% , including the increase in waste prices is highest in Europe. Fuel - an increase of 27%, food - 2% but already poultry meat - 21%. Each of us feels expensive in our wallet, and there's no indication that anything is going to change, because the NBP is passive here. Another problem is the circulation of cash that NBP doesn't know what it supports. The value of all banknotes held at the end of the first quarter 2021 is PLN 327 billion. This is the highest value in history and represents an increase of 24% compared to the end of 2019. Keeping money in a drawer instead of in a bank involves real risks such as tax avoidance, black or partly black employment, so as to pay minimum rates and some pay under the table. Too much cash is also a risk of creating a speculation bubble in the real estate market and uncertainty about the further increase in inflation. I therefore have two questions for the President of the NBP. Will you take and what action in the next 2 months to reduce further price increases and what are the reasons why you support cash growth in circulation? The answer to these questions is based on our vote in favour or against the adoption of the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u44	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, in every speech of each of your parliamentarians, we are talking about security issues, we are talking about issues related to the specific dimension of the year 2020 due to the pandemic, at COVID-19. And it was actually a special year. What was behind these expenses and, above all, the revision of the state budget, which took place on 28 October 2020, was undoubtedly the word security, security of Poles and Poles. And this, in my opinion, in the opinion of the Law and Justice, has been carried out in an extremely exemplary manner. We talked about issues related both to fiscal policy, to policies related to the strict state budget, but also to what is most important... The speech by Gabriela Masłowska, who very clearly highlighted issues related to the proper financing of health services. [[You've got to be kidding me.]] She stressed and said this very precisely how much expenditure on health care has increased in the rule of law and justice and in a special way in 2020. Safety isn't just about health care. These are also matters relating to uniformed services, and these are also matters related to the budget of the Minister of National Defence. We have allocated nearly PLN 52 billion for this purpose. It is a huge budget, which was implemented by the Ministry of National Defence in an extremely exemplary manner. I would like to emphasise, because the debate was defined, there were allegations that we increased the national defence budget by 3 billion by October 2020, not by 2 billion, but by 3 billion. And that was the charge. In my view, this is a huge advantage. The great advantage that we have increased these expenses is that we are also looking at safety not only from the point of view of health care, but also from the point of view of the operation of uniformed services, national defence services. By PLN 3 billion - no, as the Member said, PLN 2 billion - we have increased this budget. But the increase in defense expenditure did not just happen. It was followed by an increase in the volume of GDP on the basis of the calculation of defence expenditure. This involved an increase in the percentage of GDP in line with the rule in Article. 7 of the Law of 25 May 2001. We implement the laws, we act in accordance with the constitution. Hence the change in this matter. What I also think is extremely important is the actions of the national defence department associated with COVID-19, with the pandemic. During this discussion on the 2020 budget implementation report, it is worth mentioning that expenditure related to the eradication of SARS CoV-2 infection has been implemented from the national defence department's budget, with the prevention, prevention and eradication of the effects of the infectious disease caused by it. The expenditure for this purpose from the national defence budget amounted to more than PLN 234 million. It is an incredible commitment, above all, to soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army and soldiers of the Polish Army in general. Today, during this discussion, we should thank them very warmly for this debate on the report on the implementation of the budget and not accuse them, as the Member alleged, that they had received some extra money there. Today we thank the soldiers for being so deeply involved in pandemic cases, and they have helped citizens so much. I would also like to draw attention to the actions of the police, to the fire department, to the actions of the Border Guard, to the incredible actions, to the incredible dedication and commitment of these services to the very exemplary implementation of the State budget for 2020, but also to the support of COVID-19. And how well the police are doing these things, we can see from the statistics that citizens feel safe. [[On women's strikes, we see.]] 80% Poles feel safe in their place of residence. Also, when we look at the indicators, we see a marked drop in crime, such as criminal crime. We have a drop of more than 7% here. We also see a decrease in the number of juvenile criminal proceedings. There's less than 20% of them. We also see a huge drop in drug crimes. This is undoubtedly due to the exemplary actions of police officers. This is a success in implementing the state budget in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u46	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Construction and investment are the flywheel of the economy as a whole, but unfortunately this area has been assessed negatively by the Infrastructure Commission. It is hardly surprising, since Prime Minister Morawiecki himself admitted that the National Housing Program suffered a complete fiasco. You assumed there'd be 2.5 million apartments by 2030. To achieve this, you have to build 200,000. apartments per year. For six years, you've only built 26,000. apartments, i.e. Four and a half thousand. per year. At this rate, we will reach 2.5 million apartments, ladies and gentlemen, in 550 years' time, in 2571. Then we will have full saturation when it comes to apartments that were set up in the National Housing Program. Yes, we can really expect that, but if it was supposed to be an unreal, utopian idea, disconnected from market realities, that's the result. If ministers were changing - Smolinski was there, Nowicki was there, Soboń was there, now you are Minister Kornecka - if the rules were changing, some were withdrawn, replaced by others, that is the result. Transport. Transport is above all creative accounting, which was mentioned by the president of NIK. Indeed, the non-extinguishing measures distorted and obscured the picture of both 2020 and 2021. Finally, short information may not directly concern the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it's easy to put your boots on, go to flooded and flooded areas and promote yourself there, but maybe you need to look at the statistics. Our government, 8 years old, is 731.7 km of built flood shafts. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Four years of PiS is only 120 km. [[Disgraceful! How embarrassing are you?]] That's 7%. , ladies and gentlemen. Dressing and lansing is easy, and taking care of the safety of Poles - unfortunately not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki again tells us that our country's finances are doing great, but that's not true again. Only last year you broke the debt record. You've increased it by about 290 billion zlotys. The public debt at the end of last year amounted to PLN 1330 billion. This means that each Pole is already in debt for 35 thousand. zł. That's the truth. Why don't you say you have to pay it back? Let's see what inflation is like. The second highest in the European Union. President Glapiński says that inflation is only temporary. He's just been saying that for the third year. Looks a little ridiculous. Now let's get to the details and see how you spend public money. In the context of maritime affairs, for example. 14 million PLN was spent on the construction of a ferry, which even the project does not exist until today. And all you have to do is look at what the Supreme Auditorium said. I would like to quote to you: NIK has a negative assessment of the actions on the reception of the inspection vessel purchased for the purpose of the inland waterway service. Attention, I quote: The ship's reception was made despite the fact that it was not checked to see if it was working properly. It's a joke, isn't it? [[Bravo, bravo PiS!]] How do you spend public money? No actions related to the liquidation of the Ministry of Digitalization have been carried out. This is another example. It is clear from these actions that you have incorrectly completed the closure of the books, have not fulfilled the obligations associated with... etc. This is generally a clear example of the fact that this government should not be given discharge, because the way you treat public money is simply the reason for this government to resign. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u50	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition, will end. [[Why isn't there a switch?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let's separate two realities: the reality of the PiS from the reality that you can see around and which you can objectively measure. The reality of the PiS so far was colorful and shiny, milk and honey flowing. But it breaks more and more, cracks at the seams and starts to come out of it with dirt and bugs. And it smells bad. The reality of non-PiS can be measured - numbers, measurements, patterns, rankings. They don't lie and they're objective. The Prime Minister tells lovely stories about the budget surplus in June at the level of PLN 25 billion. Only that part of the expenditure was already incurred in 2020 and since the beginning of the year BGK has issued 28 billion debt, which is not in deficit. Your figures for 2020 show a deficit of 29 billion, and SNA figures show a deficit of 161 billion. You've run over a small 132 billion. It's nothing to you guys. It's nothing. It's nothing to you. Billions, millions of dollars are spilling through your hands. One billion for closed Ostrołęka, 250 million for masks as part of the Polish sewing houses project, 133 million for envelope elections, 14 million for rusty keel. You can take so long. On the other hand, thick bubbles for fat cats: wives, uncles, cousins, former drivers, relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit in companies of the Treasury, foundations, agencies and agencies. Because they want to do business and earn money. No wonder that in the Transparency International ranking we fell from 29th place in 2015 to 45th place last year, and in the ranking of freedom of press RSF - from 18th place to 64th place. You don't like the way you look at your hands. Money likes quiet. [[Applause]] Your economic data (the bell) and budget data are a complete fiction. Your investments are complete fiction. Your plans are complete fiction. But they look nice on slides and on public television, which you finance every year at the level of PLN 2 billion... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. ...to look good on this TV. We'd like to... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u52	Now you have the floor of Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u53	Thank you, Marshal. The remaining time for the club will be used to clarify some inconsistencies - I hope these were misunderstandings - made by your Members. First of all, when it comes to Mr Dziambor - he said his words and went, and unfortunately he misses the truth very much, because every entrepreneur, I declare here to Mr... Bring me a Member who has met the criteria, submitted a proposal and has not received financial assistance. Few of this, when it comes to the Social Security Office, did not have to meet any criteria at all, and it was also important financial aid. The suspension of the ZUS for 3 months, financial assistance from the PFR to keep jobs - if he worked honestly, legally employed people, then he had to get the money. So I call on Mr Dziambor to bring me such an entrepreneur. If he hasn't received any help, I'll intervene with the MPs. As for the theatre and giving such examples, I would also like to know how much theater received financial aid, because it also certainly received it. So it's a little ridiculous to talk about such things. [[Voice from the room: They didn't receive much, Mr...]] Another thing that came through here really hard... And, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska said it was budget rape. I don't know what makes anyone think they're raped or expected. However, the fact that the budget has been realized... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[There is no insinuation, sir.]] ...realized very well in these difficult conditions... [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] Member, please don't shout. If you use one of these... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, you're bothering me again. How can you do that? Why use comparisons like this? [[Which insinuates... rape.]] I didn't use that word first. Why use words like that? So, of course, the grudge... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please don't yell there. ...to the government of law and justice that the economy didn't collapse during the pandemic... [[I can tell who he's talking to.]] I understand the opposition's grudge is about that. The economy didn't collapse, unemployment didn't rise. That's regret. Effective financial assistance for entrepreneurs has caused us to actually walk through dry feet. And it hurts you, I get it. However, there is one more thing I would like to say. Mr Paszyk spoke about the municipality of Trzcianka, how poor she is and how badly she lost her income. So let me just remind you of the current income, because this is the indicator. 2015 - 70.5 million, 2019 - 98 million, 2020 - 108 million PLN. Current income - increase by 55%. Compare the growth rate of current income in the years of the PO-PSL governments, you will compare how the local governments lost it. So talking about such things is absolutely nonsense. Another thing is inflation, which has been stressed many times. In fact, inflation at the moment is greater than the inflation target, but we're talking about a quarter, six months. In the medium term, I'm sure it'll fit in the inflationary target forks. Increase in wages. Mr Rosati said it was wrong because there is wage pressure. I understand you'd like employees working for a bowl of rice to hang at the employer's doorknob. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We really don't want such goals in economic policy. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: It was your prime minister's wish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u54	Thank you very much. We have Members of Parliament who have been asked questions. The list of Members notified is closed. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. As the first Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2020 is the last year of operation, the activities of the modernisation programme for uniformed services. This programme was in force in the years 2016-2020, it is an extremely necessary programme - over PLN 9 billion for uniformed services, over PLN 6 billion for police, over PLN 1700 million for fire department, including PLN 500 million for voluntary firefighters. This programme was very well placed in state security policy, it was very well implemented and implemented by Minister Błaszczak, then by Minister Brudziński, then by Minister Witek, and now it is continued by Minister Kamiński. I would like to ask - and I have this hope - whether this programme will have a continuation, because it is necessary to adopt the relevant law in a moment so that (the bell) this programme can continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u56	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u57	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's not as pink as my predecessor said. The scandals continue. If it wasn't a big deal, why'd you bring in a bill on civil servants' impunity? The scandals: masks, ventilators, sewing masks and others, as the previous Members said. 10 billion PLN for your term of office for TVPiS. Each year 8 billion zlotys from VAT, i.e. Poles paid 40 billion zlotys out of their wallets. Security? But of course, promised in 2016 black hawks - were not bought, in 2019 Pegasus was bought to observe us. So? And you say it's that good? Health workers, nurses, paramedics, labists, teachers protest, ZUS workers protest. If they are not to work for a bowl of rice, Mr Kowalczyk, why are they protesting? I'm gonna go tell them not to go to that protest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 100,000. people - excessive deaths. This is the dimension of last year's budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u58	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome. Mr President, please put your mask on nicely. I'm talking to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The public debt calculated according to the European Union's methodology increased by PLN 290 billion in 2020 to around PLN 1336 billion. The earlier increase in public debt calculated according to this methodology by a similar value observed in 2020 lasted almost 10 years - a quote from the Supreme Audit Chamber report. I ask the Minister of Finance to justify the need for such a public debt. The second thing, also from the NIK report - experts employed in 2020 in the Ministry of Justice earn up to 16 thousand. zł, but there are not enough qualifications for high wages. Please respond to the Ministry, who were these experts, on what basis they made just such amounts and what tasks they were doing. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u60	Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In an hour, the meeting of Prime Minister Morawiecki with farmers in Podlaskie Voivodeship will begin, in a typical farm holding American blueberry, so that there will be a lot of assurances, as the government supports farmers, cares for agriculture. In the meantime, the numbers say otherwise. In 2015, the budget for agriculture amounted to PLN 55.6 billion, and at the time when PiS took over power, this budget was increasingly lower: PLN 54 billion in 2016, PLN 48.4 billion in 2017, PLN 49 billion in 2018, PLN 47.5 billion in 2019, PLN 48.2 billion in 2020 and PLN 50.3 billion in 2021. What will be the budget for the next year? Cut again? Don't tell me you're friends of the village and agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u62	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question was something else, but I want to refer to what the highly venerable Zbigniew Girzyński said. Well, he said about the fear that Europe and not just Europe have. Well, I understand that people are afraid, but nations should rule the elites of the fearless who are not afraid. Meanwhile, the elites were not only afraid, but still infecting people, fearing people more than humans and infecting people with fear. It's caused a lot of damage. The great honorable Paulina Kloska said that exports have increased. Because exports have increased because other governments have harmed their economy even more than our government. And comparing ourselves with the dead body of the European Union is pointless. The European Union is a dead man and comparing itself with these countries is no good. On the other hand, I wanted to ask if the government realized that his actions resulted in a loss of about 140 thousand. people who died excessively, and about 700 billion PLN of loss? This fear cost us enormous money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u64	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u65	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! I noticed that President Glapiński was in a very good mood, and that President Kowalczyk was also in a good mood. I don't know if this good humor is because dramatically high inflation drains citizens' pockets, drains people's pockets, that prices are getting higher, everything is getting more expensive and wages are getting less and less worth it. Let me remind you that prices of goods and services have increased by 3.4% , food prices in the last two years - by 10%, housing prices, energy carriers, i.e. very important things - by 7.3% Only last year. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, is this really a government policy that does not respect hardworking Poles and Poles. Due to this high inflation, these hard-working Poles lose their savings, retirees lose their savings, and future pensioners lose their future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, when will the government and NBP finally stop this spiral of inflation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u66	Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about part 85: Voivodeship budgets, in the section on the protection of monuments. My voivodship, Opolskie voivodship, has been at the gray end for many years as regards the budget in terms of culture and the protection of national heritage. We know that the total budget is increasing very much, at the moment it is almost PLN 150 million. I would like to ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration about the way these funds are distributed, because budgets in different voivodships sometimes exceed several amounts, as is in my voivodship, and the needs are comparable, some monuments really require big money. The second theme is part 43: Religious confessions and national and ethnic minorities. I would like to thank you for the amount of minorities they receive, but it is far too low in relation to the needs that exist. Does the Ministry also provide for certain actions that would cause this amount to increase regularly every year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u68	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year local government revenues increased by PLN 26 billion. In many years since 2000, of course, these revenues have increased, but the greatest growth rate, as you can see, is in recent times. Looking at local governments, as far as the state budget is concerned, it must be said that the share of local governments in taxes has virtually continued to grow. The exception is last year's... [[Percent didn't, percentage didn't grow.]] Member. ...when PIT decreased by PLN 1 billion, while in the case of CIT there was no decrease. But in general, as Mr Sipiera reminded us here, last year local governments received PLN 10 300 million from the Government Local Investment Fund for investments. The educational subsidy increased last year by PLN 3 billion, but in the last three years by PLN 7 billion. It's a very big increase. On the other hand, when I look at this issue from an investment point of view (the bell), I think that local governments should invest more using this money. [[And in relation to GDP?]] Mr Krzysztof Gadowski... Because in the last two years, local governments have had this money, and yet they haven't invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u70	... The Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I am directing my question to the Prime Minister. I wanted to ask what funds he spent in 2020 on the promised compensation for the increase in the price of electricity for Poles. [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero!]] Those were electoral promises, those were promises made every year by one and the other minister. I'd like to hear what kind of money came out. [[Applause]] By the end of December 2020, there was a "My current" programme. This was the second edition of this programme, for which really 1,100 million PLN was allocated, but more than what was spent, amounted to 226 thousand PLN. applications not covered by this programme last year. Count it down to one request. It was supposed to be a $5,000 grant. PLN, today this program changes, says 500 million PLN, and 3,000 PLN. PLN surcharge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you want to secure the rise in energy prices in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u72	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2020 is probably the first official document in which I read that GDP fell in 2020 while increasing unemployment and lowering wages. In addition, I read that household moods have deteriorated significantly and inflation has been 3.4%. This is a message that is very different from what the President of our country said, who informed us that the bread may have gone out of its way, but for this he had stooped oil. Let's get to the point. President Glapiński! I would like to ask you how much our gold reserves are today in kilograms and to what extent these reserves have changed in 2020 and in the first half of 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll have the information in writing, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There was information.]] [[Voice from the hall: In tonnes, not in kilograms.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u74	Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u75	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! I wanted to ask about the resources for sport and tourism, especially at such a difficult time when this industry is experiencing problems, but also about resources for local authorities, because on 13 July this year. Local government officials from the Mogile and Inowroclaw districts signed a letter of intent. the acquisition of the former railway line no 231 Mogilno - Kruszwica, which was closed in 1996. The local government intends to take over this line and build on that former line a bicycle path linking Mogilno and Kruszwica, which is to run through four municipalities: Mogilno, Strzelno, Great Lakes and Kruszwica. I have a question: What measures are planned and will there be an increase in resources primarily to develop this type of tourism, as well as how the budget (the Bell) will be increased on these issues? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u76	Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say that your boundless complacency, which I have already mentioned here during my speech, will have to meet in court because there has just been a collective lawsuit in the fitness industry against the Treasury, the fitness industry that you have closed so eagerly, without feeling that you will have any consequences for it. The anti-crisis shield has helped so much that - as I mentioned in my speech - more than 80% These clubs couldn't use it because they didn't fit in the fork, i.e. Someone didn't see anything, and it turns out it's gonna be hard. We have a situation in which you are bragging that you have spent over PLN 200 billion on an anti-crisis shield, and the Prime Minister recently boasted that the budget surplus is PLN 25 billion. I mean, I understand you're getting ready for the compensation that's coming. Tell me where you're gonna get the money and where you got the money for this 200 billion PLN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u78	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u79	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Reading the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the digital part can make you wonder. Here's NIK who rejects the opinion of the report of the Fund responsible for the implementation of the Central Vehicle and Driver Records, because it states that it has been prepared on the basis of incomplete accounts that the data provided by the Ministry is unbelievable that these data do not correspond to reality. The NIK politely urges that the accounts of the CEPiK include economic operations that are consistent with their economic content. Minister, what do you think the IRS would do with a company that submits financial statements prepared on the basis of unbelievable and incomplete accounts? How would you approach a business that reports data that doesn't comply with accounting records and that doesn't match the facts? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u80	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In many statements of the opposition about subsidies, there are allegations that the Government of Law and Justice does not care about Polish local governments. But the budget figures say something completely different. In 2019 the total subsidy amounted to over 61.7 billion... [[And the percentage, and the percentage?]] ...and in the report in 2020 it amounted to more than 67 billion. The education subsidy itself has increased over... [[Percent, per cent.]] Don't bother. On the other hand, compared to the time when you were in charge, this subsidy was 10 billion less. [[Voice from the room: What is this comparison?]] Minister, is this trend in increasing subsidies an annual increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Since when is one nominally analyzed?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u82	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The inflation is shocking. Every day we go to the store, we grab our wallet, and we don't know how much bread, butter, everything. We feel like we're losing our money in our wallets, and we're losing our savings at the banks. The profits that are in the banks right now, it's just a minus, a minus, a minus or a zero at the most. As a result, the NBP President today suddenly declares that inflation is transient and has an impact on it so-called. objective factors. Ask Mr Glapiński, Minister, whether these objective factors are also in other countries and how this has affected inflation in other countries and whether it is true that in other countries this inflation is much lower and there is even deflation in the euro area. Please tell us how increased inflation affects the settlement of public debt. And finally, tell me what's in the ATMs or the money we take out of the ATMs isn't empty money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u84	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have a question about the state budget for 2020. As Prime Minister Morawiecki is a Member of the Silesian Voivodeship, I will ask a question about the Silesian Voivodeship. I would very much ask that the Minister, because he represents the government today, present some three spectacular investments or tasks which were co-financed by the state budget in 2020 in the Silesian voivodeship. If the Minister doesn't find three, I'll have at least one to present it to the district voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u86	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A very important part of the state budget is the part dedicated to agriculture and rural areas. For a year now, he's seen in government benches the Minister of Agriculture as if he's disappeared. I don't know if he's got fat cats in his head, especially fat cats, but it's not all agriculture. So today I would like to ask what it is like, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, that when you came to power, you promised 1,2 GDP is allocated to Polish agriculture. Today you rule, for 6 years Poland has supposedly not experienced better prosperity time, and spending on Polish farmers is 0.38 GDP. After these six years, it would be good to stand here and explain why you support Polish agriculture so miserably (the bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u88	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question about what was supposed to bring savings in last year's budget. It's about the savings that are related to the reconstruction of the government. I asked many times in interpellations, these interpellations were three or four, what were the costs of this reconstruction and what savings we gained thanks to it. So I'm asking you for this answer, to give me specific numbers, because in any response that you have received from you... There were even answers that it was uncountable, or that these were costs that could not be estimated. And yet you said we'd save money on this reconstruction. I ask for a specific answer, a specific number, and just a specific amount of money that we've saved from the reconstruction of the government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u90	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Civic Coalition. [[Mr. Marshal, Law and Justice.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 2020 is a very difficult year for all of us, for parliamentarians, but above all for residents. What needed to be done in 2020 is, above all, the fight for jobs. And in this context, I have a question for the Minister: What measures have been transferred to protect jobs? How many actors have reached for resources, support, and how many jobs have been saved? And also if you could introduce the Minister and tell him how territorially the case was. How many resources, how many entities have benefited from this? Were there also cases where someone reached for the means he shouldn't reach for? Because at least there was such information that there were entities reaching for money, while (the bell) did not defend jobs at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u92	Thank you very much. It was Mr Kazimierz Moskal, of course, Law and Justice. Sorry about the mistake. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u93	Mr. President Kaczyński! High Izbo! It's been six years since everything's been expensive. Here's my notebook where I write down monthly expenses, probably like millions of Poles, Poles who have to make ends meet. Unlike the government, I don't throw expenses into a second notebook or hide anything. In 2015, strawberries - 4 PLN, now - 10 PLN, the price of eggs increased from 50 gr to 1.20 PLN, apples - from 2 PLN to 5 PLN, Italian - from 2 PLN to 4 PLN, lunch on the city - from 30 PLN to 50 PLN, repair of the bike - from 150 PLN to a minimum of 300 PLN. Bachelor's fees increased from PLN 300 to PLN 500. The apartment cost 170,000. in 2015 and now - 270 thousand. I spent $2,000 a month on my life. zł, and now I'm barely 4,000, and I haven't changed a thing. I walk around, turn out the lights, ride my bike, change my car and dress up in lumpexes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Speaking of which, lumps are the only places that didn't get expensive. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club. Do any of the government members who are so eager to spend our public money run this diary? You don't have to answer that. It was a rhetorical question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u94	You don't have an MP? Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. [[Thank you, Marshal, for the first time, you haven't turned off my microphone.]] Well, that's special. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! My question concerns the financial results of the Treasury companies in 2020. What was their share when it came to budgeting in 2020? That's the first one. And the other. I spoke in my speech about reducing investment. I especially mean private investors who are afraid to invest for many reasons. It is a question of legal instability, different financial solutions, but also lack of such certainty, security. What measures have been taken to increase interest, stabilise private investors in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u96	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Unfortunately, the President of the National Bank of Poland is not with us. He ran away very quickly from this debate, which I regret. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you about the thread that Mr Rosati has already mentioned here, namely: Are you and when are you going to learn from your own monetary policy? As you can see, she's not effective. Last year's investment rates are at the lowest level in the region, we are 11th among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Thus, low interest rates, which result in a loss of capital for both private companies and citizens who save themselves, do not contribute to the growth of any investment. At most they cause a bubble in the construction market, in the real estate market. Is the government going to... Does the National Bank of Poland intend to adopt any policy to restore balance in monetary policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u98	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government likes to brag about how well it manages the state budget. Recently we heard even from the Prime Minister that there is 25 billion PLN surplus in the budget. We hear about the next megalomaniac investments: the Central Communication Port, the excavation of the Vistula mine, and recently the Saski Palace. In the meantime, reality checks out these dreams of power. In November you declared that rail infrastructure contracts would amount to PLN 17 billion, and now it seems to be only PLN 12 billion. Perhaps even half of the assumptions will not be made. The more you talk about rebuilding the railroad, the more these investments inhibit. Other companies in the railway and construction industry are failing. Because of your inability, mass layoffs began. Stop dreaming about palaces that won't rise. Save the railroad while you still have a chance. When are we going to be able to provide funding for the railroad in the perspective of (the bell) the EU for the years 2001 to 2027? Last sentence. I call on the government to set up a transitional mechanism as soon as possible to ensure that investment is maintained in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u100	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The NIK report has clear conclusions: transparency of public finances needs to be increased. I have a very specific question. How are you going to increase financial transparency? What are you going to do and when? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u102	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. I don't see your MP. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget year 2020 is not only a year of very embarrassing financial scandals - massage, respirator, envelope - but also a year of the record-breaking of nepotism by the politicians of Law and Justice. It is also a year of unused budgetary opportunities. For the first time, the Committee on Infrastructure has not given a positive opinion on the implementation of the budget in part 38, although the majority in this committee have Members of the Law and Justice. Why? Because PLN 7314 million was not spent last year. That's 28%. the sum allocated to transport. It is even worse in the MON, where the scale of advances has increased by 7 billion - to 28 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will bills and receipts protect Poland? Answer us that question. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u104	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek Club Leży.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions about the general reserve and the special reserve. As far as the general reserve is concerned, it was an amount of PLN 480 million. Some decisions have been taken by the Council of Ministers in recent days of December. It is about the National Election Office and giving it 57 million PLN. Is it normal that such decisions have been made in the last days of December? Is this budget cleaning? It's definitely worse when it comes to targeted reserves. There were 35 billion PLN in these reserves. Please answer the question about reserve 73, 74, 75. Also in the last days of December, decisions were made about the creation of these reserves, and the information we have indicates that they were not distributed and used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What were the reasons for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u106	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that 2020 was difficult for the Polish economy due to the pandemic is true, but you can no longer listen to manipulations and lies about the fact that [[Applause]] You've dealt with the crisis. The proof that your government has failed to deal with the crisis is the numbers. They don't lie. I will refer not only to 2020, but also to the years 2007 and 2009, i.e. to the years of the global crisis that fell upon the government of Donald Tusk. Gross domestic product increased by 1,7% in 2009 , fell by 2.8% in 2020. The government budget deficit in 2009 was lower than expected and amounted to 23.8 billion. In 2020 it increased enormously to 85 billion PLN. The investment rate in such an extremely difficult time bell remained at 20%... Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome. ...and dropped to 17.1% in 2020. You financed... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u108	Member, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr. Adam Glapiński. The constitutional duty of the National Bank of Poland and the Monetary Policy Council is to ensure price stability in Poland. I have a question for the president. Are you going to do that? Prices in Poland have been highest in 20 years. This is about the rate of increase in average prices. This reflects most on the level of life of the average Polish woman and the average Pole. As far as the inflation basket is concerned, 28% is an increase in food and non-alcoholic drinks prices, 20% - use of dwellings and energy carriers, 9% - transport. Meanwhile, the National Bank of Poland took an unprecedented action to weaken the gold at the end of last year. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u110	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating the implementation of the 2020 budget. This debate is fundamentally false because the government is not presenting us with real spending for 2020. He did not provide expenditure, excluding the State budget, so-called. non-budget, e.g. by BGK, KZN, Polish Development Fund, CPK. The budget hole for 2020 was not indicated by the PiS 85 billion PLN, only about 200 billion PLN. That's the real scale of the budget hole. What do you leave for young people? It's inflation and expensive. It'll be your trademark. Why are you hiding the real state of public finances from Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u112	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish people and Poles simply feel robbed by the PiS government. A few examples that justify such a feeling. The Self-Government Roads Fund was supposed to be 6 and 7 billion a year, and it was 2.5 billion. The aid for bus transport - was to be 800 million, was 139. Polish Wooden Houses - probably 1.5 billion PLN already flowed there, not even one house was built. But hundreds of thousands of zlotys a year sail to the PiS nominates. 57 million were paid for the envelope elections. Of course, the proposal is classified, although according to the legal expertise ordered by the National Election Office, this information has in principle the value of public information, to which citizens should be granted access in a manner guaranteed by law. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't build shafts, but you shoot shafts every step of the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u114	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Two serious allegations regarding the 2020 budget Firstly, the unprecedented scale of operations and mechanisms to reduce the transparency of the state budget and public finances - more than 230 billion out of the budget. Secondly, the huge scale of non-extinguishable expenditure, over PLN 12 billion, while in 2019 it was PLN 140 million. This year we have two budgets in parallel, which we have never had. And I have two questions for the Supreme Audit Chamber: To what extent does the 2020 budget reflect the actual state finances? Will non-extinguishable expenditure be cleared and checked when the budget for 2021 is audited? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u116	Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Implementation of the budget for the past year, and therefore the government's actions illustrated Perfectly in one sentence the head of NIK. A large-scale operation to reduce budget transparency was applied," he said. Personally, I think this is part of the whole strategy of secreting a lot of power actions in order to implement the party's privacy on state property. And here's a question for nobody -- I'm gonna send it in writing because nobody's here right now. Do you not think that I am so concerned that the exclusion of the application of the Public Procurement Law to contracts carried out in connection with the pandemic has also been used for this cover-up? An example is the Industrial Development Agency, which built a ghost sewing shop and released masks that are not of the slightest importance for protection against the coronavirus. More than PLN 250 million went into the mud, the ARP does not provide information, secretes this information, hides behind the company's secrets. And for such investments as the railway line (the bell) of the Czarnków - Rogoźno - Wągrowiec - Międzywodki - Szamotuły or bypasses of the Saw, the mouth and the Obornik unfortunately has no money and is still waiting for them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u118	Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition. I don't see your MP. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u119	I hope the marshal doesn't interrupt me. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you're not here! You've put 230 billion public money outside the state budget, beyond parliamentary control. NIK calls it an unprecedented concealment of expenses, once again. I call it a budgetary redecision, the largest in the European Union. You owe us and the next generations, you owe local governments, you owe health care. The debt of hospitals in Lublin exceeded PLN 1 billion. You are giving Poles the most expensive, galloping inflation - the highest in the European Union. But there are also inheritances - this is a decrease in the value of the gold, which will not please the franchise, and for which the NBP is responsible. You owe us and you owe us public money, but your well-being grows, just as the prices in the shops are rising, just as the taxes are rising - you have passed 40 new ones - just as envelope cases, masks and others that we may not know about yet are growing. But it also grows, and perhaps above all, social dissatisfaction (the bell) - the citizens who will settle you for it. We'll be against the report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u120	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The tricks of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who pushes state expenditures beyond the budget so as not to show the real debt of the country, have already come out of this speaker a lot of words. It is worth mentioning that Poland's debt increased by PLN 290 billion last year. This is the amount that we're going to get, if we add up the last 10 years, then we're going to get exactly the same amount of debt. You have indebted Poland over the course of the year to the amount for which Poland has indebted for the last 10 years. On the other hand, I have a question about an issue which is even more concerned with Polish and Polish portfolios, namely inflation. I would like to ask you, the President of the National Bank of Poland, who ignores this issue, and what we, Polish and Polish people, feel every day in our portfolios, what real actions the National Bank of Poland, the Monetary Policy Council, the Polish government are going to take in order to limit the second largest inflation in the European Union (Dawn) that we are dealing with in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u122	Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The budgetary debate is coming to an end, so it is time for conclusions. The 2020 budget had seven major sins. The first is to break the constitutional rule that the Sejm adopts the state budget for the financial year. The second is the repeated overestimation of official authority in the spending of public money. The third is spending outside the budget. The fourth is the spread of funds, agencies and institutes. The fifth is to exceed the permissible limit to stabilise the expenditure rule and destroy it in accordance with the principle: after us, even the flood. The sixth is an unprecedented increase in debt by PLN 290 billion and the departure into more than PLN 220 billion between the debt of the European Union's calculated methodology and the debt of the Polish methodology. Inflation, i.e. the cost caused by the irresponsible policy of the government and the National Bank of Poland, is the seventh main sin for which the poorest Poles pay the most. That is why we will not accept this report (the bell). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u124	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year the bill from the state per citizen amounted to PLN 29,754. That's over four and a half thousand. zł more than the year before. You'll probably say that these are pandemic-related issues, that you had to spend this money on helping entrepreneurs, but the truth is that half of this growth went to entrepreneurs for help, and the other half - for expenditure completely unrelated to pandemics. That's how you spend your money. Moreover, in one year you have increased public debt by PLN 290 billion and today every Pole is in debt to 35 thousand. zł. Inflation is the second highest inflation in Europe. We have expensive prices in Poland. Essential question: When will you finally tell Poles what is the truth about the state of public finances of our country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u126	Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about all the funds of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because we hear here about creative accounting, and these funds serve among others. That's the one. I'm just gonna name some of them. Some arise, others disappear, and I think that the Prime Minister himself is not fully aware. These are funds: construction of 100 bypasses, modernization of hospitals, investments in school, rail+, renovation, renovation for stations, development of bus journeys, local roads, Polish Audiovisual Fund, COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, Government Local Investment Fund. I could say that forever, but to be sure, I ask for a full list of all the funds of Prime Minister Morawiecki in writing. I have requested this on the committee, and now I would very much like to ask that such a list be made available to Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will also exchange the Solidarity Fund, the Justice Fund, the Reprivatisation Fund. God knows how much more money there is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u128	Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2020 the taxpayer added nearly PLN 15 million to the national administration's fight against illegal gambling machines only for the remuneration of experts and storage costs of occupied slots. What is it really about this fake fight against illegal gambling that we watch in every city on every street - the sign of "7777"? Could it be selfless to allow the state to be robbed? Or is this just an inept game? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u130	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state budget is the equation: income equals expenditure. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the state budget has more than PLN 25 billion in surplus, but the budget is primarily that everything agrees that the expenditure is just as much as the revenue is. And there's such a thing as creative accounting. I will not go into details because my previous speakers have pointed out almost all your mistakes, and certainly there are even more of them. If there's more money on the market than goods, inflation starts. Old rule: don't spend more than you earn. And that's what happens with us. If you spend money with a light hand, especially uncomfortable, left and right, the money starts to run out of money. What do you do? Local governments are burdened with crying and paying, new taxes are invented, and money is simply printed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then what do we have? Growing inflation, price madness, running away young people. I'd like to ask how much money we've printed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u132	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2020 will be remembered by Poles not only because of the raging pandemic of Coronavirus, but mainly because of the cost, the new taxes introduced by the PiS government, which are probably over 40 already, to decrease the value of money - we have inflation second in Europe, the highest - for the cost-effectiveness of savings and raging property prices. It's on one side. On the other hand, the lack of a reduction in public spending, the growing budget gap - in one year you have indebted the country by 290 billion, that is as much as in the next 10 years in total. Unfavourable investments and purchases, illegally closing further economic sectors, subjective treatment of local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, all this implies that you have failed to take care of the interests of Poles and Poles, and therefore you do not deserve to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2020 budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u134	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to the statements of the majority of the Seym, I have no doubt that you have mastered the propaganda to perfection. Because when I hear about a balanced budget, you're almost self-absorbed, you just forget to add that you're pushing billions out of the budget. When you talk about shields for entrepreneurs, you forget to add that you're skipping the constitution without paying the entrepreneurs the compensation they should receive in connection with government decisions. The fact is that prices are rising, the fact is new taxes, the fact is that electricity prices are rising. Today in Poland we have practically the highest prices throughout the European Union. They won't fall until we think about the future. Coal is not the future, the future is the RES and the smart energy policy of the state. Besides, not only energy policy, but also smart, honest policy, based on respect for work, entrepreneurship and self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u136	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to go back to the National Election Office budget and start with a rhetorical question: If bad people in parliament vote that they are allowed to rob widows, does that mean that an honest man can steal from them? The bad people in Parliament voted that it is possible to compensate for the expenses of the National Election Office and Polish companies, companies of the Treasury related to the elections not ordered by the State Election Commission, but by the Prime Minister of Morawiecki, the so-called. an envelope election. And the National Election Office paid almost PLN 57 million to two companies at the order of the Prime Minister. We cannot find out and once again we demand requests from the Polish Post and (The bell) State Security Printing Works. 'Cause here's my curiosity... Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. ...a legal opinion that once says that it is access to public information, and at the end... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, sir. ...doesn't reveal to her Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the United Rights of Law and Justice, the PiS politicians are trying to convince the public that when discussing the budget, we should talk about how much money has been spent for what purposes, but we should no longer talk about how it was done. And we should speak out about how non-transparent spending decisions are being made. I'll remind you of the Cultural Support Fund. To this day, we do not know what Prime Minister Gliński was doing by transferring money, who received it, how much he received and according to what criteria. Not to mention the Government Local Investment Fund, which was divided outrageously. I repeat: transparent spending, because it is public money, not private money belonging to the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u139	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. I don't see a Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't any either. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u140	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We would like to know what the Treasury debt is. What is the state of the Treasury? But I'm sure you don't know that either. You're jumping into money in the sharp shadow of fog and pandemics, and you're not even hiding from it anymore. It is supposed to be colorful in your world, and in the Doing Business ranking between 2015 and last year we fell from 32nd to 40th place. In the economic freedom index we fall from 42nd to 77th place. These are numbers, data, facts. Don't you see that? Can't you see you're leading Poland in the wrong direction? Indeed, the number of taxes raised, the introduction of new danins, various types of fees, the number of liabilities incurred - a debt that will be repaid for the next generations. And, of course, the crazy cost, rising from month to month inflation. This is Poland 3D, which can be described with words: debt, tribute, cost. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u141	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last year and last years of PiS are mostly expensive. Ladies and gentlemen, people are just terrified every day going shopping. And that's a hidden tax that you don't talk about, and it's mostly affecting the poorest. And what did we hear from the NBP president? The National Bank of Poland has no influence on this. I'd like to ask you how this is possible. Do something about it because we have the highest inflation in Europe, the highest inflation in the European Union. Why can other countries cope with this? The inflation's over 4%. There is drama about the increase in basic building materials: 100% steel up, wood 80% up, OSB plates 40% Up, it has a gigantic ratio to the square meter price. You're talking about cheap apartments, and really these prices are galloping in an amazing way. We need to take firm action (the bell) because the market for manufacturers and performers is in great danger at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u143	Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Domestic violence in Poland is a fact and kills. The number of cases of domestic violence has increased as a result of lockdown and coronavirus. For years, however, the huge money to help victims of crime, from the Justice Fund, has flowed to organizations associated with Solidarna Polska, the party of Minister Ziobra, foundations and associations that have zero or minimal experience in fighting domestic violence, are devoted to projects that promote the resort and minister Ziobra or Minister of Warchoł, go to the foundation of Tadeusz Rydzyk, go to communities that have declared themselves free of LGBT, go to wherever they really should not. In 2020 this money hit, for example. to defend faith and morality. With all due respect, such projects will not help victims of crime, women and children who die and are beaten by domestic violence. You created yourself a kingdom, with the help of Minister Ziobra, financed from a huge, separate budget (the Bell) at the expense of the victims of crime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u145	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u146	Thank you. I have the opportunity to ask this question by the courtesy of your marshal. Thank you. In the context of yesterday's discussion about the Saski Palace, its reconstruction, and basically the Square Palace, because we will not rebuild the Saski Palace because we are rebuilding its version, which was created in 1838... The state budget supplies the protection of monuments in a minimal way. Monument protection program - 113 million. Something is dripping from the Church Fund, there are tens of millions very strangely divided into voivodships. Isn't that a reason to think, shame, and raise this issue in the context of the budgetary debate? Why does the Polish state support the protection of monuments with such minimal measures? We're talking about the budget here. After all, if you were to add that money, it would turn out to be half the budget of the Institute of National Remembrance. National memory more important than material heritage - this should not be the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I encourage you to reflect on this and to make the whole sphere really look different in the next budgets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u147	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. Mr Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u148	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Maybe I'll start with the state of public finances. I absolutely cannot agree with the thesis on non-transparency. In 2020, the debt as defined by the Union was 57.5%. This is already a debt according to the EU definition. Deficit of the public finance sector according to EU definition - 7% gross domestic product. So I'm presenting this data, and I think it's transparent. As regards comparison with other countries, Poland's debt was significantly lower than that for the whole European Union, which amounted to 90.7%. , and the euro area - 98% gross domestic product. The average increase in public debt in the crisis year 2020 was also lower in Poland - 11.9% GDP - than the average in the European Union, which amounted to 13.2% GDP. Poland is one of the 13 out of the 27 countries of the European Union that meet the Maastricht criterion, which is below 60% debt-to-gross domestic product relationship. The fact that all major credit rating agencies confirmed Poland's high rating investment rating in the spring also needs to be stressed and maintained a stable outlook for the further period. When it comes to reference to inflation, I think it is the task of the National Bank of Poland. Nevertheless, I would point out that average annual inflation in 2020 and we are debating this year was 3.4%. It is therefore located in a 2.5% tunnel. plus minus 1 percentage point. There have been discussions about unexploded expenses. This was actually extended until November. Nevertheless, I would point out that from 11.6 billion expenditures of 10.1 billion unexploited expenditures are investment, property or infrastructure-related expenditures, so I think that they serve the promotional objective as much as possible. There was also a question about local government units. I have already repeatedly stressed that the situation of local government units for 2020 was not a bad situation. The total revenue of local government units was made at pre-pandemic planning level. They closed with a surplus of PLN 5.7 billion and planned a deficit of more than PLN 21 billion. There was also a question about spending money from the general reserve, from the special reserve, for individual items and their implementation in December 2020. Yes, indeed, the situation was that special reserves, new special reserves, had been created. The funds were transferred from these reserves to the Prime Minister's firm and were paid into the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. It was budgetary austerity measures. There was also a question related to some investments or actions in Silesia. I can mention this: in December 2020 funds were mobilised from the General Reserve of the Council of Ministers for each university in Silesia. This program has been implemented. These were amounts, if I remember correctly, from PLN 4 million to PLN 10 million per university. Each university in the Silesian Voivodeship, a public university, received such funds in December last year as a subsidy. There was also a question - it often appeared - about the budget surplus. Yes, indeed, after half of this year the budget surplus is perhaps even slightly higher than the Prime Minister said, but this concerns 2021 and not the implementation of the 2020 budget. There was also a question about the issues related to monuments and funds for the restoration of monuments. We are here in contact with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and we are trying to solve this problem in some way, and maybe this will happen within the budget for 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the rest, the scandals, Minister? What about the ventilators?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u149	The rapporteur of the committee, Henryk Kowalczyk, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u150	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to call for the debate on the budget to take place in a substantive manner. Unfortunately, what we listened to during this debate is just a set of epithets, speeches, various types of actions that really have nothing to do with the substantive assessment of the budget. Of course, this applies not to all Members, but to the majority, which is regrettable. It is therefore very difficult to discuss the budget, discuss its real problems if you only hear terms that do not agree with parliamentary terms concerning the budget. I would advise you, however, to be based on facts. The Committee on Public Finance is not a committee that deals with storytelling, beletrytics, but its work is based on facts. Of course, there are, of course, here and the substantive voices. I am now looking at Janusz Cichoń, who spoke about the problem of tax collection. This is a real problem. We're in full agreement. Indeed, this problem has been very clear in the assessment and discussion within the committee, but the fact is that tax revenues have increased considerably over the last years. I remember when we talked about the 500+ program in 2015 and it was said that there was no money for it and there wouldn't be. At the time I argued that at least PLN 52 billion of tax revenue was running away from the state budget and this proved to be the real amount. On the other hand, the fact is that, in fact, with more tax burden or the imposition of these taxes, tax arrears are increasing, and this is a task for the Ministry. And I hope that such discussions will be held both in the plenary room and in the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you for all the substantive votes. I have only a call for those who have spoken in a non-essential way to adapt to the substantive level of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you again very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u151	Thank you very much. Would the draftsman of the committee, Mr Zdzisław Sispiera, like to speak? [[Yeah, yeah. Now, Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The debate concerns the entire budget and the report of the NBP President. My report concerned guarantees, safeguards granted by the Polish State. Let me make a few comments on this, because the committee - as I said - has worked quite hard on this and has also drawn some conclusions from this. As regards the liabilities of the State Treasury granted to him as a borrower, COVID itself absorbed PLN 186 billion into the so-called. the pillow, which was supposed to secure business activity in Poland, so that there was no tragedy in the labour market. And it seems... Let's be honest here. After all, all of us, working since March on the COVID laws, said: this is what needs to be done. Of course, there were some disputes about how to do it, but there was no general discord, and it was not said not to do it. So that's what we said: that's what we have to do. Ladies and gentlemen, this cost Poland PLN 190 billion. [[Us.]] The state, that's us. Yes. In addition, these commitments, which are guaranteed, have already arrived here, i.e. 9.8 billion, are the national fund, the road fund that runs BGK. This is money specifically spent on roads in Poland. Next: PKP - almost PLN 1 billion, Industrial Development Agency - 48. And now these issues that affect EU spending, which is what we also need to absorb, the spending of EU funds. I don't think there's any discussion here that we should be doing this, either, right? What guarantees do we have? The guarantee refers again to BGK, with 75 billion, including 74.7 billion for the National Road Fund. Polish State Railways - 13 billion etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is specific money that goes on specific tasks. What are we talking about? We are talking about investing and developing, even though this crisis has affected us. In my view, therefore, this discussion should go in this direction in order to show exactly what they are going to do. The President of the NBP today said clearly in his speech and pointed out that inflation is transient. Of course you can say and you can, ladies and gentlemen, empathize that inflation is not good. [[For the budget, it's very good.]] Yeah, everybody agrees with that, so that's why. The purpose of NBP, one of the main or primary objectives, is to prevent uncontrolled inflation. But, ladies and gentlemen, do we want to have, like some countries of the European Union, 0%? inflation and 20% unemployment? I don't think that's the point either. Therefore, among others. that is weighing the right of those who are responsible for this, including among others. NBP. I believe in the words of the President, and I believe that this is temporary. There is also a question of the market which is developing in Poland, and certain costs - yes, ladies and gentlemen, development also costs. E.g. many entrepreneurs, many who exist on the Polish market, make certain moves by deciding. 'Cause you're not gonna assume the government's setting prices, are you? There's a kind of market game going on here. There is money in the market, and this is what Mr Rosati said. Yes, indeed, and that must be arranged skillfully. Despite tax cuts - some formations say very clearly that PiS increases taxes - we have left 56 billion PLN in Polish wallets over the last period. 56 billion zlotys of reductions are left in pockets. These are also measures that go towards investments that can minimally increase time inflation, but these are Poles' money in their own pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole thing has been going on - let's see, because this is also a very important aspect of this debate about the budget - an issue. The opposition is talking about big issues. The scandals are 0,003 of the state budget, if you call it scandals. As you ruled as an opposition, the opposition had a problem with the budget. 150 billion went into the budget with the OFE and everything was fine. But of course it's democracy, it's a ruling decision. Ladies and gentlemen! Give the government that currently exercises power in Poland some opportunity to create this policy. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are creating is the budget of large investments, rapid development of Poland. And I don't think there's any doubt, because it's not Prime Minister Morawiecki, it's not Mr Marshal, it's not your marshal or most of it in Parliament, it's world ratings that say yes, it's 4% this year, it's 5.4% next year. Ladies and gentlemen, what is 5.4%? ? These are tens of billions of zlotys in the budget of the Polish state. Are we going to grow again so that there will be inflation actually 0,5% or 0% and will increase by 1% or, as in some European countries, is minus 2, minus 5? I don't think that's what we're after. [[But that's a little much...]] And the last thing that's important, ladies and gentlemen, which, I don't think should be so hard... I understand the opposition must do this. And I also see in committee meetings that he is working very hard in this direction, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth scaring citizens because in democracy power is a passerby. It's not like someone got it for eternity. Fearing society is a kind of giving dangerous signals. Because if anything ever changes, those who were in opposition will rule. I think if we're talking about certain things, let's talk about specifics. What Mr Kowalczyk said, as Mr Kowalczyk said. Yeah, there are problems, nobody says there aren't. There are a lot of problems, because it's not like we don't have them, but we're talking about the philosophy of the budget about general issues. This budget is ambitious, it's creative, it's money. Ladies and gentlemen, what I often emphasise is that this is my own experience. I have been building budgets, and that is why I am grateful to the Prime Minister, the Government and the majority of Parliament that this is acceptable. Because we don't wait, we don't tell people: there's no money and wait, maybe someday when it's okay, we just say: money is, we spend it. Yeah, we owe each other, but not to buy palaces, just to invest. And of course, everything can be turned into pastis and you can say, as the opposition said yesterday, as if agreeing with the said reconstruction of the Saski Palace: higher wages, not palaces. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of law and justice wants higher wages, and to rebuild the palace, which is now a symbol. That's why it's important to serve... That's my last thought. There were votes to get the government to give up real debt. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone reads the papers... I understand that when someone was at the budget level of a small village, I do not know a dozen million zlotys, and today we operate hundreds of billions of zlotys - but the principle is the same, it is the same, it is only a question of larger numbers - it is well aware that all data are given and that the Minister of Finance does not cover any data, because they are given to you. The situation is under control. What Mr Skuz was talking about now: everything is given, these coefficients are really at a very good level. We don't have to be ashamed of our debt, which is really under control. Therefore, a little more faith and I am absolutely convinced that the next budgets will be equally ambitious, and finally what is the essence and perhaps the blood of democracy, it is precisely the style of management and spending of funds that is a certain final effect on how a given authority is assessed, whether it is only in terms of being in power, or just making decisions that citizens refer to each other, looking at their wallet, as some empty wallets were shown here. No, ladies and gentlemen, Poles have more and more full wallets and are more and more proud that they can actually do better. And since we still have many such budgets that will be difficult, certainly yes, but this budget absolutely deserves to be supported, it is under full control and I hope that the majority of the Parliament will accept this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u153	Thank you very much. Would the committee rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Noblechta, like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Very briefly. I would like to say that one of the elements of the debate on the adoption of the 2020 budget implementation report was to discuss the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2020. I was going to say that the committee has spent over two hours on this point. Your Vice President, who represented the National Bank of Poland, presented a factual, substantive and comprehensive report on this activity. There have been many questions, many doubts have arisen, but the value of this debate was that most of these questions were substantive questions, especially the questions of Professor Rosati were very substantive. This is a determinant, a level that we should maintain, especially in areas such as public finances, where statements should be substantive and policy should go further. I would like to thank both the President and all the Members who spoke substantively, with concern for the strength of Polish money, about the level of inflation, about the state of the economy stimulated by the monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland. It was that big public finances thing. I wanted to thank everyone very much for this debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u155	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes the point. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that an amendment has been tabled for the proposed resolution, I propose that the Sejm refer this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission proposes that the Sejm should accept the information on guarantees and guarantees granted in 2020 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. I state that the Sejm took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 27 hours 13 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: The document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers:.Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. As of 31 December 2020 (print No 1244) together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development (print No 1303). I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u156	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At today's meeting, I will present information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. But before I get to the bottom of this, I would like to make two criticisms for the discussion and the positions of the clubs. The first concerns information on the implementation of the audit, so-called. the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This concerns the activities of special economic zones. The report was published in May 2020. The proposals presented there shed new light on the functioning of the zones, but during the previous year of clarification, the answers to various questions and positions of the Minister were presented on several occasions on the Sejm committees concerning zones, in plenary, and at the meeting of the Sejm committee dedicated to the control of NIK, where representatives of the House presented in detail the substance of the report. Therefore, in today's discussion, I will not refer again to the same and constantly repeated questions. On the other hand, we will, of course, submit a written reply, as required by the Rules of Procedure. The Law on the Promotion of New Investments adopted by the Sejm in May 2020 provides a fundamental answer to all allegations. It de facto replaced the 1994 Special Economic Zones Act, which I am reporting to you today. The Zone Facility has thus acquired a new face and administrative decisions have been issued in the new legal regime since September 2018. The bill I'm reporting is now in the process of extinction. Authorisations issued by 2018 are still active, but investments are completed and closed. In turn, new decisions are issued on the basis of a law which is not the subject of today's meeting. To begin with, a few facts concerning information on the implementation of the law. I would like to draw your attention to the number of new jobs in zones in 2020, i.e. jobs created directly as a result of investments covered by old permits. Despite the expiry of the old law, despite the fact that entrepreneurs are no longer obliged to many things with old permits, they continue to develop, reinvest and employ new workers. In 2020, over 286 200 000 were spent on the construction of infrastructure in 14 zones. zł. The zones are not only support for investors, they are also cooperation with local authorities and the development of local infrastructure. The promotion of zones and their investment offers, including the promotion of a new investment support instrument, has invested almost 5100 000 in special economic zones. Evil, in a time of pandemic. We constantly want to raise awareness of what the zone is and what entrepreneurs offer. Only effective promotion will allow us to attract medium-sized Polish companies into the zone. However, in order to provide you with a full picture of the situation, I will also complete my data with the most important indicators of the new law. This is about the figures for 2020, which I know are most interested in you. Note that this was the year of the pandemic, in which there were unusual shifts in investment processes. The first three quarters were a period for investors to expect what would happen. It was only the fourth quarter that brought us a real reflection of the results. It should be noted that when results across the country due to COVID-19 have slowed down strongly, special economic zones have recorded minimal but positive results. This is also a response to voices which suggest that the activity of zones is a barren loss and companies would also develop without public aid. We did not want this economic experiment, but because of the pandemic it happened and now we see that public support gives a real advantage to entrepreneurs who want to invest. In the case of extra-zone investments, these results were much weaker. In 2020 the number of decisions was 372, i.e. 18 more than the year before. The value of the declared investments amounted to PLN 15 200 million, compared to PLN 15 300 million for 2019. Entrepreneurs have declared the creation of 5900 jobs. However, I would like to point out that although jobs are still one of the key evaluation criteria, we are trying to look more closely at the economy and take into account that for many companies, robotization and automation are now a priority. But we also have a number of good information that goes beyond the standard ones. And so on. Polish companies accounted for 65% in 2020. entities using the Zone Facility, including Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, were responsible for 241 new investments from the total of 372. I think we can now officially overthrow the myth that the zone is for large, German or foreign companies. 122 medium-sized cities, losing socio-economic functions, attracted 26% investments carried out in 2020 That's an excellent result, given all the factors. Finally, I would like to stress that one of the most important promises has been made, which is also the slogan of the whole reform, and the whole of Poland has become a big investment zone. Today, entrepreneurs can locate in any region and in any area. It doesn't have to be the parcel indicated in the Minister's regulations anymore. A decision to settle outside the so-called "place of residence." In 2020, 59% of investors took part in zone areas. Obviously, this share will continue to grow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u157	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present a report to the Economic Commission on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act, as of 31 December 2020. The report was presented very comprehensively by Minister Grzegorz Piechowiak. I would just like to add that during the discussion there were many questions from the opposition, but also from the coalition side, so we had the opportunity, I think, to get very comprehensively acquainted with the essence of this document. We have drawn three of the most important conclusions from this meeting. Firstly, the Act on Special Economic Zones of 1994, which imposes a statutory obligation on the Minister responsible for economic affairs to present these reports, resulted in the achievement of the objectives set out at that time. It contributes to increasing investment even in difficult, peri-crisis years, even in such a difficult year as 2020. Despite the crisis year, the pandemic year saw an increase in investment, an increase in jobs per balance in all special economic zones. Conclusion two. It should be remembered that this is the year in which, in addition to the privileges and obligations of the zone law of 1994, we have a new legal reality, the Polish Investment Zone, which abolishes borders, abolishes the obligation to expand the zone's borders before the investor appears in it. Therefore, it confirms only the direction we adopted, almost unanimously adopting in the Sejm the amendment of the Act or the new law on the Polish Investment Zone. Point three, no less important. We have learned from the report that new investments have been registered in almost all zones, even the weakest ones, such as Legnica, in terms of land use or the number of jobs. All zones registered new zone permits, and the cumulative value of investments since the beginning of the existence of special economic zones amounted to PLN 146 billion. Importantly, investment expenditure in 2020 was more than 10% higher than the previous year. In conclusion, given that we have two legal obligations under which we have not yet reported these increased investments outside the Zone Act, we have a very good investment year and, as we already know from the announcements of the Zone Managers, this year will certainly not be worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u159	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2020, in prints 1244 and 1303 respectively. It should be stressed that this information has been prepared in connection with the article. 26 Act of 20 October 1994 on Special Economic Zones. This document contains information on the functioning of special economic zones as at 31 December 2020 and covers, as in previous years' reports, the following issues: first, the location and degree of development of each zone; second, the effects of the zones taking into account the number of permits granted, the number of jobs created, the values created, the industry structure, the investments made and the countries of origin of capital; thirdly, the activities of zone management companies. It is worth noting here that in 2020 the total area of zones remained unchanged and amounted to 22 949 ha. On the other hand, the average degree of zoning has increased to almost 67%. At the end of 2020, entrepreneurs had 2289 valid business permits in the zones. In 2020 the accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to nearly PLN 145.9 billion, which meant an increase of almost 13.9 billion, i.e. almost 10.5 percent. in relation to the previous year. Capital invested in less than 62% of zones came from five countries: Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the United States. The industrial structure of the investment has not changed significantly. The same sectors of activity occupy the first three positions. The largest share in the cumulative value of the investment was by entrepreneurs from the automotive industry - almost 27%. The following places were taken by producers of rubber and plastic products - less than 9%, and metal products - about 7%. The largest industrial concentration was characterized by the Katowice zone. In 2020, 56.7% of the leading industry in the zone fell. Traditionally, the Legnica zone also had a high share of the dominant industry. In the Wałbrzych, pole and suwałka zones, the share of the dominant industry was also high, exceeding 40% the value of the investment. In the Legnica, Katowice and Wałbrzych zones, the dominant industry was automotive industry, and in the pole and suwałska wood processing industry. In 2020 companies managing special economic zones allocated about PLN 5.6 million to the promotion. On the other hand, 286 million PLN was spent on building infrastructure in the area of zones, with the expenditure of management companies accounting for 18% , the remaining parts of the expenditure were financed by municipalities, media gestors and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a report on prints 1244 and 1303, including information on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act, as of 31 December 2020. First of all, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the government's information, but that does not mean that our position is based on the excellent activities of special economic zones. On the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! What remains of the noisy announcements of Prime Minister Morawiecki: All Poland with one economic zone, and announcements of growth of investment? The SOR announced an investment rate rate of 25%. Because these investments fell to pre-transformation levels, to 17%, but the purpose of special economic zones should be to develop the country not by consumption, but by investing in innovative projects, products, new jobs and competitiveness of the Polish economy. Unfortunately, when discussing the activities of zones in 2020, we could not get an answer to these questions, because most often government representatives told us that this was not the law. The fact is that on 10 May 2018 the provisions of the Special Economic Zones Act were repealed and replaced by provisions to promote new investments. We will request answers to these questions when discussing the law on supporting new investments which the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has planned for the second half of this year. However, the investment rate, as I have already said, is the ratio of value of investments to GDP, for many years in Poland has been very low. This is an obvious threat to maintaining a high pace of development in the medium to long term. If we also take into account fatal innovation indicators, there is a risk of slowing down catching up with highly developed countries and worsening the international competitiveness of Poland. It wasn't me who said it. It was expert Bohdan Wyżnikiwicz. High Seym! This document contains, as has been said here, information about activities in zones. The area of zoning has risen to 66,9 or 2.16%. Entrepreneurs had 2289 valid permits. The accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to PLN 145.9 billion and increased by more than 10% in relation to the previous year. At the end of December, investors employed a total of 385 thousand. employees. The number of new jobs increased by 1 000. The number of employees in relation to the previous year has decreased slightly by 2.9 thousand. The capital in the zones comes from five countries: Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the USA. There are 14 economic zones in Poland. All companies operating in the zone obtained a positive result. In accordance with the existing rules, the zone will operate until 2026. High Seym! Minister! During the discussion of the report on zones, I asked the Minister a number of specific questions related to artificial intelligence, education and the labour market, increasing the number of start-ups, professional education, etc. and I did not receive any written answers, as I requested at the committee meeting. That is why I request these answers again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u163	Thank you. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u164	High Izbo! As every year we meet to talk about tax privileges, which the state has generously covered over the years, contrary to appearances not only Polish, but also, as the Minister mentioned, moored in Luxembourg, the Netherlands or the United States. The truth is that over the years, we have spent tens of billions of dollars on these privileges, and the results, according to scientists who are dealing with this subject, are highly questionable. Of course, as every year, the Ministry shows us tables that show that jobs are and are created in the zones, but as every year there is no reliable, scientific basis for the answer to the simple question: Wouldn't these jobs be created without budget subsidies? What needs to be said in this House is that Poland has a lot to offer today, and politicians, especially those of the older generation, have become accustomed to thinking that we are worse, that we must literally seek every euro. It's kind of like we're sub-Saharan Africa or South Asia. We all know these stories that we're on track, that we have to wait for everything to be learned from the West, that we can't afford it, we can't afford it, that we have to try. Twice as much as anybody else to get any investment. Only these complexes are unjustified and the economic policy which these complexes dictated in the 1990s is already unjustified and archaic. Poland does not have to humbly ask for every euro. We have a stable economy, a relatively low level of unemployment, which is important and very high also in relation to other European countries' competences for workers. We have not the worst infrastructure that connects us with Western Europe, we are a place where investment is beneficial. Zones, of course, are an archaic tool, and it's a good thing we're putting them out. It is good that from year to year the number of companies that receive these permissions is falling. Unfortunately, this does not mean that we have given up the principle that the budget generously, in my opinion too generously, is paying private business subsidies. The government simply replaced these regional zones with the principle that, as Mrs Emilewicz said, Poland is a kind of economic zone. It still costs us a lot. Except for the question of how many answers we won't get today, because we're talking about this extinguished instrument, not about the full balance sheet. It is a pity, because in my opinion, talking about public aid for real, about the balance of public aid for real, regardless of what opinions we have in this case, and here our opinions with Minister Emilewicz are obviously different, it is a conversation if we look at the overall picture and not if we are looking at more or less unrepresentable fragments. Only then can you answer the question: How much did these gifts cost us for business and what actually Did we get it? In my opinion, what the government did was an attempt to respond to the pathology of creating sub-zones to a special order of specific companies. This answer, which was to create a universal mechanism that really generalizes this logic, is not an answer. This is actually being stuck in a paradigm that's already archaic. What will determine our competitiveness is rather investment in public services, in our eternally underfunded education. It is the acquisition of greater financial responsibility by the state for schools, before which for years the government has refused despite requests from teachers' associations or local governments. And this is how Polish schools will work, and it will depend most on the competitiveness of our economy, not on whether we add PLN 1 billion or PLN 2 billion to that businessman from the United States or the Netherlands again. And that's what I'm still missing. The full balance of public aid. An honest answer to the question whether, without this public aid, investments would still not have been realised. Answers to questions that Prof. Augustyński poses in his public aid research. In my opinion, legitimate questions, questions that should lead us towards a completely different active economic policy, because Poland undoubtedly needs an active economic policy in which the country plays an important role. But this important role really (the bell) can be a bit more ambitious than the next and subsequent tax exemptions for business. Such a policy cannot, of course, be supported by the Left Club, because we are in favour of fair rules of playing in the economy, and in our view this thinking of eternal tax relief with fair rules of playing in the economy has little to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u165	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to comment on the report on economic zones in the country. As a matter of fact, we are discussing only a part of these solutions, but the economic zones have worked out. There is no doubt here, because for many years we were delighted in most of the fact that the Polish state could attract foreign investors, because this was the situation and for this the zones. created, as well as supporting our national ones. Once, when an investor came, he asked, "How can you help me, what conditions will I get? These were modern technologies often, what was not in Poland, and Poles, and individual governments expected such investors. Thanks to this support, if a package of options is presented, what can be helped - among other things it is. the economic zones, where tax support was specified, were defined exemptions or special multiannual programmes, because they also functioned, for very advanced technologies - it could be attracted to this investor. It's not like the economic zones were just used to pump money into entrepreneurs. No - we have repeatedly extended the term of the economic zones in the country, seeing that this is a good solution, that it is good support. Later, it became even more advanced in technology. It's written so legally to promote modern technologies and additional support. Now we have all of Poland as one big zone. I wonder how that's gonna work out, 'cause we don't have any information today. For this reason, the annual information of the government in the Sejm is presented in order to closely follow and observe how all these mechanisms of spending funds or support of entrepreneurs are working. And it worked out, there was evidence, there were documents, there were documents. There was a discussion about whether, without such support, we would have achieved this effect. Maybe part of it, but we wouldn't quite achieve that. Very often discussions with European or even global entrepreneurs, in terms of investment in Poland, were very hard, very long and it was thanks to the zones that managed to install these investments with us. Today we have a slightly different situation, I would say that it is worse when it comes to investment, because we have the instability of the law, the great instability of the law in the country, and that is what investors see. The law is unpredictable, the law can be changed very quickly to adverse. I could mention many examples here, even if famous windmills, it has already been repeated, as we had to pay later for not fulfilling previous promises or these declarations regarding renewable energy. Besides, the variation of law also shows the Doing Business ranking. In recent years, we've fallen this ranking, and it's not one point, it's a few points a year. This also shows that we do not try to create good conditions, such as those that interest investors, encourage them to operate in our country. The Polish People's Party will support the report, will vote in favour of it, because, as I said, we have always supported it and we believe it was a good solution. It is a pity that it ends, although it can always be shifted, as we did in the case of old zones (the bell), the period of operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u167	Thank you. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have an annual report from the government on the activities of special economic zones. The first economic zones were created in the 1990s. It was a period of high unemployment, so bringing any capital to Poland, which would create jobs on facilitated conditions, was acceptable. Special economic zones were expected to operate for 20 years, then extended until 2020, followed by 2026. Currently, unemployment in Poland is one of the lowest places in the European Union. Although the COVID crisis caused a slight increase, no one expected to return to double-digit unemployment a dozen years ago. We will continue to have an employee market, and therefore it also seems that workers here will rather give tone to the functioning of this area. But let's move on to these zones. The largest investors in economic zones operate in the automotive industry, usually for the German industry, which creates a certain degree of German Hinterland from us, looking through the prism of politics, mainly through the prism of foreign policy, and this is probably not the situation in which we would like to find ourselves. Since yesterday, we are also in a different situation with regard to foreign policy, which we do not want to be in, but there is nothing more to be afraid of your policy. The government document also describes the value of tax exemptions for companies that have benefited from these reliefs in zones. Between 2014 and 2018, it was 2.5 and 2.8 billion, then more than 3 billion. In these zones, Polish capital is less than 23% And foreign is over 3/4. Therefore, a number of fundamental questions arise: Are these areas now necessary to maintain those companies that have already invested? Are these redundancies necessary? Do we need these redundancies to invest new companies in Poland in the future? Aren't we at such a level that these tax exemptions really don't change much anymore? Do you plan to extend the existence of these zones for the following years in the same form? In my opinion, the subject of employment is also important. What percentage of these workers in the zone are Poles, or Polish workers? We realize that everyone who was in such a zone walked around these companies, saw the number of employees, that in some departments not Polish, but first of all Ukrainian language is the leading language. Therefore, the question is why these zones would function in this form, this is what they would look like. The point is that foreign companies are investing here, bringing money to their home countries (the bell), employing foreigners, who are also carrying this money across the eastern border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u170	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the matter presented by the President of the Council of Ministers about the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones together with the position of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The zones were established in the first half of the 1990s on the basis of the Law of 20 October 1994. Of course, it was a formula designed to accelerate the development of regions, economic development, which was intended to make such a strong economic boost in the form of new investments in those regions, precisely through the creation of zones, i.e. areas which are supported by government in the form of various types of reliefs and incentives, these investments will be created. And of course, it seems that when Poland was in transition, such a solution was as expected, needed. However, for some time now these reports, which each year receive and evaluate the High Chamber, have been similar. It should also be noted that this activity of the zones has been assessed by the Supreme Audit Chamber. And in 2020, which is last year, NIK presented such a report. This report is quite difficult in terms of the assessment of zones, in terms of assessing their activities, also for the minister who supervises their activities. Suffice to say, according to the report, none of the zones have reached their target. The stream of public aid was not addressed to the industry's preferred entrepreneurs for the region concerned. Sites not attractive to investors, not suitable for business activity, were included in the zones. The supervision on behalf of the Minister on behalf of the beneficiaries was ineffective. It's just a few of those charges. This, of course, also translated into economic effects. Instead of the announced increase in competitiveness in 2016 and 2019 Poland fell from position 36. to position 37. in the ranking prepared by the World Economic Forum. Investment expenditure was also falling. Nor has the quality of these investments been improved. All of this can also be seen in the zones. Today, however, it seems necessary to focus on the future, namely education, the release of the potential of citizens' entrepreneurship, legal stability or solutions that will actually result in the independence of the justice system. And then this will also have a positive impact on economic activity. We will not object to this document. Like I said, it's an assessment, an assessment of what's going on today. However, it seems that we need a serious public debate on the future and we will expect this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u171	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the investment in the creation of an electric car factory in Jaworzno. During the committee meeting, the Minister mentioned that this investment area should also be included in the Katowice Special Economic Zone and benefit from the reliefs, preferences that are present in this zone. I'd like to ask the Minister what his preferences are? Is the site of the future factory of Jizera really to be included? What preferences can be used? When will these decisions be made? If the Minister is not in a position to give a comprehensive answer at this point, I would ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u173	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, we are in the phase of Poland's electricity transformation. In Silesia it was already clearly indicated on the timeline of subsequent mine decommissionings. There are opportunities for the development of mines. I would like to ask the Minister what role you see for the special economic zones, especially the Katowice ones, in the context of the use of these mines. We've heard here that these zones have actually worked out for us. From the very beginning there's always good staff, there's great, experienced people who know how to do it, how to attract these investors, how to encourage these investors to cooperate. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you are already thinking about the other tools you want to prepare for the special economic zones that will be able to use these areas, they will be able to attract investors (the bell) to these excavated areas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u175	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Continuing with the topic of fair transition and mining: in Konin we also have a desire for the government to be involved in compensation for the region and not only justify its lack of action by the Fair Transformation Fund. Special economic zones can be an excellent instrument for these areas to acquire a new development tool, a new development engine. In the meantime, I see that special economic zones use the method of attracting investments not on the principle of equality between different zones, e.g. Mielecka zone offers much better solutions than the Łódź zone or the Wałbrzych zone and at the same time the Mielecka zone does not want to invest in Konin. Why, if we are dealing with zones that are all over the country and are supposed to be treated equally? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u177	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In special economic zones there are currently almost 2300 economic operators. The accumulated value of the capital is about PLN 146 billion. The invested capital comes from Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the United States and countries such as Japan and South Korea, probably from investors operating in special economic zones that are located outside the European Union, especially investors from the United States. I would like to ask whether they too may be forced to cease economic activity on terms similar to those which include television broadcasters or video platform operators. Is their activity based on the certainty of functioning in Poland? Minister, I'd like a written reply. I'd be obliged to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u179	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question concerns the Katowice economic zone. In 2021, is the Minister planning to expand this area to cover new factories and businesses? I place special emphasis on Jaworzno, on the factory of electric cars of Jizera. Will it also be subject to special economic zone preferences? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u181	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There are several economic zones in the Wielkopolska Voivodship, among others. Słubicko-Kostrzyńska, walbrzyska, Łódź, one even within its scope includes also Ostrów Wielkopolski. This Kostrzyn-Słubicka obtained the best economic result for last year, in terms of the management company, it was over PLN 24 million, but also, according to the information provided by the government, spent nearly PLN 20 million on the promotion of its zone, of course in total. There's so much information here. Despite this good result and high investment in promotion compared to other zones, employment may fall, but I am talking about the trend. If the Minister can relate to this, please indicate what is causing the drop in employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u183	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the efficiency of cumulative tax exemptions. The material we analysed, which is discussed, stated that the cumulative value of tax exemptions in zones amounted to more than PLN 30 billion. I have questions for the Minister. How do you calculate the effectiveness of this amount? If we slow down, as a government, we build expectations, right? Are you using any efficiency algorithms? It reminds me that as I examined the report of the NIK on economic zones, it was precisely the charge against Mrs Emilewicz that there is a lack of supervision, a lack of adequate plans for the efficiency of tax exemptions. How would you assess the effectiveness of tax exemptions in the 2020 zones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u185	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, local governments are important partners in creating economic zones and possibly expanding them. Without local authorities, there would not be many effects of this activity. Of course, local governments also do it in their own interests to attract investors, create jobs. This is also a task that is very expected by local communities. In this context, I would also like to ask you about your projection of how, after 2026, self-government activities in this area can be supported, in particular at the level of municipalities and powiats, given, for example, that in Wielkopolska about dozens of municipalities, probably 70, have average GDP below the national average. It is not that all regions are evenly urbanised, and some need support. Secondly, this also points to an element such as ordering spatial planning in terms of economic activity zones. And here the economic zones (the bell) also played a huge role. We see what happens in the developer, where we often talk about the so-called. design of a chain in quotes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u187	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u188	Minister! 14 special economic zones are located, through sub-zones, up to 311 municipalities, in 186 cities. Many of them, or perhaps the vast majority, are small centres that sought to have these areas in their homes. If we looked at the filling of the zones between 35% and 80% If we looked at the fulfillment of these 186 cities, 311 municipalities, this would be another picture, even more diverse. The question is whether those municipalities that had invested in some sense, at least hoped that they would make a profit, would somehow actually get their way out of this instrument. I mean, I'd like to ask you to complete these zones just in the layout of municipalities, cities and to answer the question whether you are really trying to fill these zones evenly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the level of their investment 2% indicates that by the time they are extinguished they will not be completed, and these areas seem to be much better prepared to invest than any other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u189	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 1994 If someone criticizes the creation of zones - never on the eastern wall, in Mielec or in Tarnobrzeg, modern industry would not be installed, because it always had better conditions in the west, so there is no basis for criticism here. 14 zones. After 2026, if the zones cease to function, will these companies manage under these conditions, without support - that is the question - and will they not withdraw from management in these areas? My question also concerns zone infrastructure investments. In many places, as was said, local authorities - the aid measures that were directed - and the management entities themselves invested in infrastructure in sub-zones, so-called. extended zones. It was supposed to have a certain effect. It didn't work out everywhere. I know places where one subject (the bell) installed, that's all. Now what about the estate? And these are also companies, state companies, because for example. The ARP owns... Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. ...two zones and he manages them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u191	Minister! The city of Jaworzno as the location of the factory of Izera was selected from 30 potential land. Jaworzno turned out to be the best. As a Member of Jaworzna, I know that this is actually the best location for this type of investment. But what happened that such a professional staff, experienced staff - because this is not the first thing that special economic zones deal with - didn't make sure that a special law was needed, which rapes the State Forests so that this factory could be built at all? At the time of the selection of the location - was there a representative of the State Forests - it was not known that we would encounter such problems with the Forests? And that's the question. The announcement said that the zone had the right to 118 ha of this land. I wanted to know: What is the legal title of the area associated with the site for the construction (the bell) of the Jizera factory? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u192	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u193	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The functioning of special economic zones, including sub-zones, certainly resulted in expected results, both on the country scale and Wielkopolska or south-western Wielkopolska. Especially at a time when unemployment was above 10% It was an interesting proposal for local governments to attract investors, to reduce unemployment. But I have two specific questions. Since the zones are expected to operate by 2026, does the government envisage the possible extension of the period of operation of these zones and, if not, what possible elements supporting existing and new entrepreneurs are the government planning to launch? And the second question about promotion and cost: What are the costs that the management of individual zones spend on promotion, what is their effectiveness and what was the effectiveness of acquiring investors primarily from the Asian market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u194	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u195	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as special economic zones are concerned, many local government officials from Małopolska emphasize the need for support in terms of re-agriculturalisation of places where class I or II land dominates. Such a district is e.g. the powiat proszowicki. On the one hand, we need to take care of the highest-class lands and depopulation costs a great deal, and on the other hand local government officials stress that there are areas that would be suitable for special zones, while there is a very high cost of depopulation. That is why I would like to ask: What programmes will emerge in the future to resolve this kind of situation? Because undoubtedly these counties have a treasure that at the same time restricts them economically. It's about the kind of county where the first and second-class land dominates. Please say: How will these districts be supported in terms of (the bell) the construction of these economic zones? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u196	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you: Do not the government think that special economic zones lose their attractiveness? In my opinion, they're losing. Despite the high level of State aid in the form of tax relief, there is no significant dynamics in the development of these zones, particularly in recent years. Investments in most zones are growing to a very small extent and the number of valid business permits has decreased by as much as 10% over 2 years. Do you analyze these reasons? What other factors influence this? Perhaps the short period of activity of these zones is already nearing the end, because in order to start up, you need a longer perspective than 3 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u198	Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland seems to still need foreign investors. I would like to remind you that the average level of remuneration in foreign capital companies is 50% higher than the domestic average and the share of these companies with foreign capital in exports is more than 50%. So you must continue to do everything to make Poland an attractive place to invest. But would you agree, Minister, that the economic zones have become a little out of date? This is an instrument from another era. Don't you think and agree with me that it would be worth taking care of other institutional factors? These are factors such as: the efficiency of economic courts or, in general, the stability of the law, the stability of the tax burden, as well as horizontal measures such as improving education, especially at the level of professional education, or simply health protection. I would very much ask you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u200	Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The analysis of the zoning area as at 31 December 2020 shows that the land use rate is around 70%. E.g. in the Mielec zone it is about 70% in Tarnobrzeg - slightly over 80%. In general, there is a huge number of hectares or undeveloped land. In such a situation, does it even make sense to maintain the functioning of economically useful, once useful, in terms of development in regions, municipalities, areas, if we have such a state of affairs? And shouldn't the government at the moment give far-reaching aid to the established zones in terms of the managed part of the land so as to cover it 100% ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The municipalities have cost a lot of money, and now they're just hanging out with it. They have no way of using it, and they need to be helped to make good use of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u202	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the analysis of information on the implementation of the Special Economic Zones Act for 2020, it is immediately obvious how little remains Done. Nearly PLN 6 million was spent on marketing activities themselves, which resulted in an increase in the development of zones by 2%. So what were these funds spent on if they did not have any tangible effect? The construction of the infrastructure, although the area of the zones has not changed, was spent PLN 286 million per year, which also did not translate in any way into an increase in the development of these zones. When you read the report, you have to ask yourself: Have the managers done their job satisfactorily? All arguments are in favour of the fact that no. I ask you to answer the question: What are you going to do to attract new investors to special economic zones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u204	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your comments, questions. I'll try to answer all of them as far as I can. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the problem is that most of you are misunderstood all the time. One thing is the 1994 Act on Special Economic Zones, and the other is the 2018 Act on the Polish Investment Zone, in which the whole territory of the Republic of Poland is an area, let's call it a zone. And because of the misunderstanding of these concepts, there are questions that are difficult to answer. Because if you ask me, for example. o Jaworzno: Will Jaworzno be in this zone? That's what I'm saying: it's been in this zone since 2018. And Jaworzno, and Mielec, and - I don't know - Zgorzelec. Each town of the Republic of Poland is an economic zone. It's already showing this misunderstanding that's coming out. Ladies and gentlemen! Very important... I wanted to answer Mrs Nykiel, but she's gone, I see. I would like to say that the question that you asked in committee was a very specific question. It concerned all these innovative things, start-ups, etc. The answer is practically prepared. We need another moment, because she's very detailed, exhausting, but she'll be handed over in a minute. I wanted to address Mr Zandberg. I clearly said that if it wasn't for help... If there were no aid in the COVID, there were no economic zones, then indeed, I would say, these results would be negative. Therefore, we believe that this aid, which has helped all companies, all investors who have invested in special economic zones, has brought tangible benefits. As to Mr Kaminski's question, I must say that all these conversions concerning foreign workers, that we have here, I do not know, Ukrainians who are exporting money outside, are completely wrong, because in all these economic zones there are people who are employed on the job, must be employed on the job, and therefore pay taxes in Poland. This main measure, what we are measuring - this is the answer to the next question - is above all the number of jobs that a given investor wants to create, and the amount of money he wants to make. These are the two most important meters we're counting on, or we're paying attention to. I have already told Mr Suchoni that Poland is one economic zone, which is why Jaworzno is also in this economic zone, while the decision concerning Jaworzna was issued a few months ago and the matter is going on. That's why it's not like someone forgot that we have to, I don't know, do anything again. Mr Gadowski asked about the issues of Silesia and Katowice Special Economic Zone in connection with mines that are extinguished. Now Katowice Special Economic Zone is conducting a conversation with the Company of Restructuring of Mines and these topics are discussed on an ongoing basis in order to take over these areas and to create new investments in these areas. However, it is still important to remember that the mine zone this is a very delicate thing because of, let's say, the whole geology, which is why we are very close to this topic. As far as I know, President Michalek is a very active president in Katowice and he is the subject I feel very well. Mr Nowak asked about Konin. I had the opportunity to meet with local government officials from Konin, the Old Town. After all, there is 200 ha of land waiting for the investor, only that once again we have to say one thing and explain ourselves very seriously. It is the investor who decides where he wants to place the investment. If it is the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, if the economic zones have information e.g. from local government, which areas we are talking about, where we can offer such areas, this information is passed on to such an investor, this investor drives and he chooses it. It has, I don't know, eight locations, not only in Poland, but also throughout Europe, and he chooses where he would like such an investment to be created. The matter of Jaworna was already there. Mr Adamczyk asked the same question. Ah, Mr Grzyb asked how it would be with these local governments. We do not extinguish any economic zones after 2026. Until 2026 there was a law that was passed in 1994, and since we have had PSI since 2018, these 14 economic zones - as I said, Poland is one economic zone - are still functioning. Few of this, the economic zones have already made an audit of all investment areas in Poland on my orders. Now we are waiting for results, because we have managed to enter EUR 300 million in KPO for funding for the weapons of land, which results from this audit. Of course, it's probably not enough for all areas, but we'll work together here. The economic zones know that they are to work primarily with local governments to arm certain areas, the ones most sought by investors. This issue will also be raised by us. This is not enough because investors are increasingly asking for green energy, we still need to try to secure this component of green energy in these areas. Then these areas become even more attractive. As regards the issue raised by Mr Saluga, as well as the question raised by Mr Szopiński, I will, of course, prepare a written reply. These are two questions I would like to answer in writing. Mr Rusiecki asked about the Asian countries. The biggest investors that are on our market today come mainly from Korea. This is LG, this is SK. These are the biggest ones in the automotive industry, in the automotive industry. This is the answer to this question: the Asian countries are very much present with us. I agree, of course, with Mr Rosati, that issues of legal stability, economic courts are very important issues in dealing with businesses. This stability is needed as much as possible. I think that's all the answers. Mr Bój asked what happened to areas that are not used in the sense that no one in them - especially in smaller areas - is investing. I would like to say that these areas, which belong to the economic zone, first of all, with the key, receive a 15-year permit regardless of the territory concerned, because we would like this offer to be even better, even more attractive to investors, but also to the area concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u206	Thank you very much. Will the rapporteur of the committee please take the floor? Please, Mrs Jadwiga Emilevich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly address all the comments that have been made, because I do feel that in this discussion we do not understand the legal situation in which we are moving today. Perhaps the question of Mr Zandberg's philosophical attention first. Do we need special economic zones today, and what is the scale, how wide is the range of public aid granted under not only the Special Economic Zones Act, but also the Polish Investment Zone regulations or other legal solutions? Where is this public aid offered and is it needed? After all, as the Member said - and it is difficult to disagree with it - we already have quite good infrastructure, outstanding staff and should rather invest in public policies, public services, rather than subsidising and, in one way or another, favoring entrepreneurs. I'd say it's a fake alternative, you can't say either-or. You have to say, and-and, and so this, and this is what you need. There is a need for obvious investment in public services, but there is also a need to maintain such incentives, because today we are taking part in real global competition and are also competing with what kind of offer, such as an attractive offer, we can present to attractive investors. This level of attractiveness of the investor is present today in the Act on the Polish Investment Zone, because today, unlike the 1994 Act, when, in fact, let's remember, every workplace was at the weight of gold, we are in different conditions, we want to attract high-value investments, such that will provide highly paid jobs that will allow us to build a value chain with local R &amp; D centres that will ensure attractive work for our very good people. Why is this necessary? For example, because - and here I will appeal to the doubts put forward by Mr Rosati, who said that this is an obsolete instrument. Yes, privileged areas have their history actually as long as trade exists. In Europe, probably the first such privileged zone became a free port in Gibraltar in the 18th century. And these are even free ports: Bremen, Hamburg. This is the history of privileged areas. More importantly, the privileged areas are offered by all countries in the region: Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Baltic countries. And we today, competing, cannot deprive ourselves of this competitive advantage. It is hard to imagine today that we will make attractive investments without a similar instrument. Thus, with regard to this capital, referring also to the questions of the Members, how much and how we balance, how we calculate the rate of return of tax advantages granted versus benefits, the answer is not simple, because of course this reply cannot only cover the number of jobs and the amount of tax paid by these operators, because we should take into account the taxes on jobs created, as well as the products and services produced and the value of exports. So this balance should actually be done and presented - this is a valuable point - and as the occasion will be, I will certainly undertake this task. I will complete the Minister's reply on the scale of the aid, because there has been a question raised that this zone does not want to serve and that the Łódź zone offers worse conditions. As an investment zone, we have Poland as a whole today, but the scale of public aid is defined by a map of public aid approved by the European Commission. Thus, the fact that one zone offers more aid and another smaller one is not the result of a decision by the board of directors of one or another zone. The Podkarpackie area provides the largest public aid, as this is the result of the aid map, and the aid map is dictated by macroeconomic factors linked to unemployment, population density, with dozens of factors that make it possible for this public aid to be larger and smaller in the area concerned. Therefore, it is not a question of the fact that the Mielec administrative zone near Wałbrzych will provide the assistance it can provide in Podkarpacie. No, it will provide such assistance as is appropriate to the area covered by the public aid. You asked a question about what workers work there. It is worth noting not only what the Minister said, that these are jobs, employment contracts, because of this they are accounted for by investors using the aid, but also that they are mostly highly paid jobs, first of all, and second of all, 90% of them are Polish workers, also in the case of managers, and this is also an evolutionary change that has occurred since 1994 until today, when really at every level, including these managers, Polish workers are employed. There was a deep misunderstanding in the discussion of undeveloped land. Indeed, we are talking about the development of zones on the basis of the 1994 Act at 67% , but many times in this Chamber we have pointed out - also I, by presenting a report on this law - and the local Members, the regional Members know this very well, that many times land has been brought in which they do not have the right to become investment land because they are either under high voltage lines or in flood areas. Why were they brought in anyway? Not because an investor made a deal, just because a local bogeyman wanted to report in another election campaign that he had a chance to get an investment, because one or another area was included in the zone. Nor does this inclusion involve, ladies and gentlemen, the resources necessary to be borne by the local authorities. Investment in the field of land weapons is carried out by zone companies, so it is a multiple advantage for local governments. One last remark. You've already touched the Minister. It's about Konin. Let us remind you that at the top of the pandemic the biggest investment in Poland was carried out in the vicinity of Konin. Johnson Matthew is a British battery company. Their state-of-the-art factory is currently being built in a special zone near Konin. It's worth remembering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u208	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the audit report published in May 2020 by the Supreme Audit Chamber, special economic zones were not properly used, did not meet the objectives set by the government and public aid was not provided to entrepreneurs operating in the preferred economic sectors in the region. One important aspect of the audit was the finding that none of the zones had reached the target, i.e. full development of the SEZ area and the other objectives set out in the development plans have been achieved to a limited extent. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. 1. How will the Prime Minister react to the content of this report? 2. Has any of the zones operating in the country reached the goal of full development of the SEZ area? What are the data of individual zones, in particular, I ask for information about the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone. 3. One of the conclusions of the audit of the above. The report required the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology to ensure a coherent system for assessing the performance of special economic zones on the basis of adequate, measurable and verifiable indicators for achieving objectives and tasks. Has the Ministry developed and implemented such an evaluation system? Please respond in writing as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u210	The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development requests that the printing information No 1244 be accepted. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land (prints No. 1394 and No. 1415). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on the Economy, I present a report on the Government's draft law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land. The project is contained in print No. 1394, and the report of the joint committees in print No. 1415. High Izbo! The aim of the project is to address land acquisition for investments in the implementation of State policies on energy, electromobility or transport, to disseminate new technologies, to improve air quality and to invest justified by the need for strategic production for state defence, high electronic technologies and processors, innovative hydrogen technology, aviation and automotive and the plastics industry. The solutions contained in this project will allow, within 2 years of the entry into force of the Act, the conversion of forests, land and other properties remaining on the Management Board of the State Forest Forests Forest Farm for the purpose of localising investments in the above mentioned. range. In addition, the possibility of replacing other properties of the State Treasury adjacent to the above mentioned is envisaged. the property of the State Forests, if necessary for the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the Act. High Izbo! To date, in accordance with the Article. 38e of the Forest Law of 28 September 1991, such a conversion was possible only if the forest management objectives were met after the land was assessed by the eligible property value estimates. Since the conversion is to be subject to land of special value, the draft law contains a number of restrictions to ensure that this instrument is used only in a situation of absolute necessity. Namely, the rules will only apply for two years, and the catalogue of investments to be replaced is set out in the annex to the Act. In addition, the Annex sets out the list of registration parcels to be converted. It is 25 plots in Stalowa Wola and 55 plots in Jaworzno. In addition, land covered by the nature conservation forms referred to in Article will not be subject to conversion. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point 1 and 5 of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 April 2004, i.e. land in national parks, nature reserves, landscape parks, protected landscape areas and Natura 2000 areas. The project includes the condition that State Forest Farm will receive only land on which forest management is possible as a result of the conversion. Entities which will be able to conclude swap agreements with State Forest Forests are, first, state legal entities referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) The Law of 16 December 2016 on the rules for the management of state property, second, legal persons for which the Treasury holds the majority of shares within the meaning of Article. 2 point 2 of that Act, thirdly, local government units. In addition, it will be necessary to obtain the opinion of the Sejm Committee responsible for forestry and forestry management on the conversion and transfer of land ownership. Another restriction I would like to mention is the introduction in the article. 5 the provision that, in the event of non-investment within 10 years of the date of the conversion of the State Forest Farm, the State Forests shall have the right to claim reimbursement of the immovable property or to pay the difference in value of the immovable property which is the subject of the conversion. In addition, conversions in accordance with Article. 2 will be performed by the General Director of the State Forests. Like I said, we only have two locations listed in the annex. There is no need to cedit it on the strings, which is around 430 in Poland. The replacement shall be carried out by the Director-General of the State Forests upon request by the Minister responsible for the Environment in agreement with the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs and the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs after consulting the competent Sejm Committee. High Izbo! As regards the issue of the replacement of neighbouring immovable property referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 3 of the project will carry out it in accordance with Article. 11 Act on Real Estate Management The competent authority - most often it is a senior performing tasks in the field of government administration - taking into account, of course, the exceptions resulting from the Real Estate Management Act and separate laws. The replacement shall be carried out at the request of the Minister responsible for the environment as set out in paragraph 1. 1, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs and the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, and also after consulting the competent Sejm Committee, in the same way as in the case of conversions by the State Forests. High Izbo! Art. 4 of the project states that the State Forest Forests on the land it manages will carry out a free-of-charge cut-off and clean-up of the trees and shrubs within the deadline set with the other party of the swap agreement. The wood thus obtained becomes free of charge the property of the State Forests. Ladies and gentlemen! During the work of the combined economic and environmental committees, the problem of taking part in the exchange procedure between the forest management and forestry committees was very heated by the debaters. The question of participation in the procedure, which of course raises numerous comments, is dictated by the aim of an open, transparent procedure for converting parcels into investments that will become an economic flywheel. We are talking here about two locations: in Stalowa Wola, i.e. in Podkarpacie, and in Silesia in Jaworzno. Let us remind you that Silesia is experiencing a very difficult period of transformation, resulting from the need to move away from coal in the energy generation process. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a multi-annual process, which you know very well, especially, I think, Members of Silesia. This is a process combined with the need to reclassify very many groups of employees. Of course, part of it will be that they will go away to deserved pensions, but many will have to give a new source of living, so any investment that can create jobs is simply desirable there. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like investors are pushing their doors and windows. We are talking about the situation that took place last year, when in competition with Hungary we lost the opportunity to bring an investor, i.e. BMW factory to Poland. Finally, it was in Hungary because it was not immediately to use the area of 600 ha, which could be used for this investment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that a potential investor chooses different locations in Central and Eastern Europe as from the menu card. If we are not ready as a country with areas invested, armed, where investment can be started immediately, we will lose in these competitions. Now, a little bit about the committee procedure. High Izbo! During the work of the Joint Economic and Environmental Committees, it was decided in a vote to proceed immediately to the project process. The proposal to reject the project at first reading was rejected and two requests for a public hearing were rejected. Two amendments proposed by the Legislative Office and one substantive amendment were adopted during the detailed work on the project. On the other hand, the report of the joint committees, which we have in print 1415, was adopted by 30 votes in favour, 26 against, with no abstentions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the draft law contained in the report of the Joint Committee in print No 1415. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u212	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Adama Gawada from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. The speaker is you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u213	Please? The speaker is yours, I told you. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my opinion and position on the draft Print Act No. 1394 on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land. The government bill allows the conversion of forests, land and other properties of the State Treasury, which remain on the Management Board of State Forests Forests, to other properties where justified by needs and objectives. These include mainly state policies to support, develop and implement projects related to energy, electromobility or transport, to promote and develop new technologies and to improve air quality, as well as state policy on strategic production for state defence, implementation of high electronic technologies and electromobility processes, innovative hydrogen technology, aviation production, automotive and plastics industries. The real estate that will be converted is described in detail in the annex to the project. The change is to be made by the Director-General of State Forests at the request of the Minister responsible for Environment, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs and the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, taking into account the size of the real estate area criterion, without the obligation to pay for the different values of the immovable property exchanged. The change concerns only real estate where it is possible to conduct forest management. Areas remaining on the Board of State Forests covered by the nature conservation forms referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Paragraph 1 of the Nature Conservation Act of 16 April 2004 does not constitute the subject of the conversion referred to in that government submission. Mrs Anna Paluch, the rapporteur of the committee, has talked about this in broad terms, and I will no longer bring it up because he has been presented by the Member. An important provision in this printing is the provision which is a specific guarantee for the State Forests. The point is that if, within 10 years from the date of the replacement, the objective set out in the replacement agreement is not met, the entity referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1 or 2, may require the return of the property from any owner. The conditions for such reimbursement are set out in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 2, 3 and 4. An additional security for the property of the State Treasury referred to in the draft law is the provision in the article. 6, which states that each transfer of ownership of immovable property referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1, requires a positive opinion from the Sejm Committee responsible for forestry and forestry management within one month of the date of service of the request for an opinion. In addition, the replacement of the property concerned by the draft law may be carried out within 2 years of the date of entry into force of the law, as evidenced by the provision in the article. 7. Draft Print Act No 1394 allows the implementation of very important social and economic investments, which will generate economic development and contribute to the acquisition of many thousands of new jobs in the era of socio-economic transformation, the transformation of the raw materials and energy sector, due to the adoption of many regulations of European Union law in Poland, especially as we are in the process of very broad implementation of the plan, especially in areas where the raw materials and energy sector is undergoing very large changes. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice therefore recommends that the High Sejm adopt a draft law on specific solutions related to the special use of forest land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u214	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Ms Urszula Zielińska, the Parliamentary Club of the Citizens' Coalition - Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens regarding the print specialty project No. 1394. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know how many people it takes to cut down 12.5 million trees and concrete the Polish forest? One, Minister Michael Kurtyki. [[Applause]] Don't look for him in this room because he doesn't come in this room, especially to discuss projects that come out of his ministry. Ironically, it is the Ministry of Climate and Environment that is the leading Ministry for the development of a project that will enable another 1250 ha of forests to be converted into investments, such as the first Polish electric car, which will be, please, as ecologically as can be something that was created in the forest. For the sake of clarity: so for investments in Silesia and Podkarpacie, so for a situation where a new workplace in the future is created for every job that is eliminated in mining and energy. However, not for such a way, not for acting contrary to the Constitution, because this draft legislative authority assigns implementing powers, not for acting without public consultation and without intergovernmental arrangements, not for building in the woods, not for cutting down natural monuments and destroying protected species, because this project allows us to do so - we will today fix our amendments in second reading. Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, Biebrzański National Park was on fire, because of drought, there was no water in taps in many municipalities. This year, a dramatic flood hit our neighbours - Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, now China. All these countries are making a dramatic balance of casualties and losses. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The climate crisis is already here, but at this difficult time you have decided to proceed on such a project without public participation and without mode. This is the moment, please, in which the rush is indicated, but only when planting new forests and covering the protection of existing forests, in the implementation of the new European forestry strategy in Poland. Meanwhile, the Polish government haste is accompanied by plans for the next clipping. Ladies and gentlemen, your term will be over soon, but the climate crisis will remain with us. So before you, Members of the Law and Justice, put your hand to it and vote for another solution that will speed up the series of disasters in Poland, think about whether you want this world for yourself and your children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u216	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law consists of eight articles, 25 comments from the Legislative Office and 13 pages containing the negative opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which really boils down to the fact that these eight articles are incompatible with the article at the same time. 10 constitutions, principles of public aid, principles of forest management, will be implemented to the detriment of the Treasury and nature and not in line with logic, but above all they are incompatible with the objective of this law, i.e. to enable the efficient execution of strategic investments in Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola. Ba, this law is designed to prevent them from being carried out, premeditatedly introducing an unconstitutional solution to enable it, but at the same time to shift responsibility, in an unconstitutional way, to committee and deceive local communities and public opinion that these thousands of hectares of forest will be deposited on the altar supposedly of economic development. In the meantime, this bill is just to get the estate out of the woods and open the gate to their future privatisation. There will be no car or new technology leaving these areas. Proof: Even the government in response to the suggestions of the Legislative Bureau to include in the title that this concerns Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola, expressed a negative opinion. We're going to make supplementary amendments to tell PiS: I'm checking whether it's really about Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola, whether it's just eye soaping. This really is the looting of wealth, only that, and great fraud, both towards people, towards nature and towards the Treasury. I also make amendments, which are the most important non-constitutional solutions that delete, at the same time as the definition (The Bell), which does not exist, the definition of neighbouring properties. There's no legal definition. This record will make all the real estate you've ever dreamed of, even beyond this annex, the subject of this pseusic pseudosam. Because it's not a replacement for something that's not an equivalent valuation. Yes, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u218	Thank you for the correction. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left, will present the position of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u219	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to quote a few sentences from the left club's opinion on the government's draft law on special solutions for the special purpose of forest land: Public authorities are pursuing a policy that ensures environmental safety for today's and future generations. Environmental protection is the responsibility of public authorities. Everyone has the right to information about state and environmental protection. Public authorities support citizens' efforts to protect and improve the environment. Art. 74 constitutions should define the policy of the Polish state in the field of environmental protection, but this is not the case. Although right now, when a climate disaster is a fact when we observe shrinking natural resources, extreme weather phenomena, these records are particularly important. Every year, scientists from the Global Footprint Network, a sustainable organisation, show a day of environmental debt. This year it is very early - July 29th, next week. This means that from January to the end of July, mankind has used up all the biological resources of the planet that are able to renew within a year. It is a symbolic indication that we have created a growth model in which the use of natural resources is greater than the ability to regenerate ecosystems. This model of functioning is untenable and is a recipe for disaster. We are talking about a law which is intended to enable the conversion of forest land of the State Treasury to legal persons, to allow for the reduction of the area of forest land in Poland. It is very important that during the discussion of this law, a project so substantially changing the question of the approach to and protection of forests, include this project in this broader context. I would like to point out that the objectives set out in the Act are contrary to environmental and climate protection, to the EU's biodiversity strategy objectives. From an environmental perspective, this law is very problematic. But that's not the only reason this bill is wrong. It is enough to mention the flawed legislative process, the omission of the draft public consultation by the government, the failure of the social side to vote at the committee meeting, the express proceding, the legislative errors that the Legislative Office and the Sejm Analysis Office drew attention to. Introducing a provision in the law to allow the Sejm committee to give its consent, an opinion on the exchange of land. Does the Health Commission approve the authorisation of a medical product for the medical market? I don't think so. Allowing sites such as documenting stations, natural monuments, natural-landscape teams, grasslands and other forms of nature conservation to be exchanged for the purpose of the investment. We propose amendments to this law, protecting the environment, protecting the interests of the Treasury, which will put the law at risk. Development must not lead to environmental degradation. It must not be the destruction of natural resources and ecosystems. This model of development has no future. It is time to take this into account in all decision-making processes, in legislative drafts, in the design of economic policy. I am making amendments to this law, as well as a motion to reject it at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the previous item, we discussed special economic zones. Then there was a number that describes the special economic zones that play a role in the area. That's over 26,000. ha, 65% use, so this shows the potential we have in terms of field resources. No one in the course of this discussion, both in club speeches and in questions, doubted that investment was an important issue for economic development and even economic development. I think that also for the purposes for which this government project is to serve, the legitimate objectives of this law are mentioned. For example, the issue of supporting energy-related projects, electromobility, transport, the dissemination of new technologies and improving air quality or defence-related objectives. That's the goal we're probably all supporting. Or the so-called technology. high-tech, electromobility, hydrogen technology, aviation and automotive. These are goals that we undoubtedly support. It's just a question of how we're supposed to make these investments. Do we need a specialty that concerns the two listed locations, because there is a specification of the plots that concern Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola? Do we need a special act that applies to these two locations? Is it not possible to carry out this operation under the applicable legal provisions if real investment in the public target or other investment objectives are necessary to carry out? My voice is not against the development of Silesia or solving social problems in Silesia. I think it's the right thing to do. The change would, of course, be made in a special way, because the Director-General of the State Forests would have to deal with it. That would be at the request of the Minister of the Environment, with the cooperation of other ministers. The change would also require a positive opinion from the Sejm committee responsible for forestry, environmental protection and forest management, which, as a matter of fact, would have to give some squares that the whole operation was carried out in a transparent manner. The State Forests would be obliged to remove trees, shrubs and order the roughness and biomass free of charge, which would result in it being acquired. General comments on the bill. First of all, as I said, it is a specialty. It concerns relatively, for the conditions of Poland, a small area, because less than 1300 hectares in two locations. At the same time, it imposes an obligation to obtain, as I said earlier, a positive opinion of the Sejm Environment Committee. This is a precedent, because the committee is the organ of the Sejm and art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 the Constitution states that this is contrary to the principle of separation of legislative and executive powers. The Sejm Commission is the internal body of the Sejm and actually this solution does not fall within the competence, because the legislative and control powers cannot materialize in giving consent, i.e. in the form of - so to speak - approval of the decision to use these areas for purposes other than forestry purposes. Moreover, the issue of Article remains problematic. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1, which refers to the so-called. neighbouring properties, which may also be - may not be, but may be - land belonging to the State Forests, which would possibly also be subject to deforestation if investment projects were to do so. However, there is no clear indication as to whether they are to be compensated in the form of spare land, which is also problematic. On the other hand, there is a method of allocating forest land for non-forest purposes by making arrangements in the local plan, and when this is not the case, by decisions on the conditions of construction and development, discharge from the land register, tax description, exemption plan. What is also our charge is that there is no public consultation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You know that such projects, in which we intervene deeply - although not in such a dramaticly large area - into the environment, especially in the State Forests, do not add value to such projects. I therefore think that we should often spend a little more time on this. Especially since there was already one parliamentary project on the same case that was withdrawn from the legislative process. Why would you do that? Let us do this in such a way that these projects can be approved by the majority of the House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u222	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Urbaniak, near the Confederation. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u223	Thank you. I'm here. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The project concerns the possibility for 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Law of conversion of selected land by State Forests, exchanges. Great. The aim is to address electromobility, defend the state, improve air quality. Sounds logical. On the other hand, media information shows that it is mainly about forests near Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola. From the information from the area we also know that this is to be done, there are to be exchanges in order to build an electric car factory. For all we know, the State Forests do not agree to this very much, to the section of the area, e.g. around Jaworzna, where we know that it would be cut about 200 ha. I will refer to the words of the Deputy Director for Economic Affairs of the Regional Directorate of State Forests in Katowice. Juran Irlik says it's too big a surface. We are talking about 300 football fields, and for example Opel in Gliwice takes 74 ha, so it is a significant, significant difference. Question: "What's this for?" This decision of the State Forests is simply negative. If a factory such as this was to be built in Silesia, perhaps it would be better for example. take care of some useless things than cut out a healthy forest around a village. What kind of hypocrisy is it simply from the government to cut down the forest in the name of ecology and construction of electric cars? I know that the forest can be recreated, but it takes some time, and you have to keep that in mind, and electric cars, however, also have a big carbon footprint, given how they are powered and what batteries are made of. So I don't think that's the direction we should go. I have the impression that this is another bear of this government: we can show that we are able to do something, and by the way: poop, we will cut out the forest and set up a factory there. Just, ladies and gentlemen, paraphrasing a film from this forest. You'll have a forest of crosses later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 concerning the draft law on special solutions related to the special use of forest land, contained in prints No. 1394 and 1415. Mr. Marshal, we are about to pass on the motion to reject this project, because it is a project that should not be proceded in the Seym at all, and amendments, because we are guessing that our rejection proposal will probably not be accepted, and therefore the amendments that are of the nature: I am checking. We heard during the committee's meeting about the excellent intentions of this law, so we will have to check whether the intentions for this investment are genuinely fair and fair. We are not against these investments, especially because they have noble goals - electromobility, defence, but we are against extreme investment chaos, because that is what we are dealing with today. First of all, what my previous speakers said earlier, and my previous speakers said, cutting out the woods to build electric cars. I have to say, the really toughest minds of comics wouldn't come up with that. I would like to say to the Minister that such a situation, a similar situation, is taking place in Germany, where such an investment has simply been blocked. So you may be able to cut out the forest, but you will not be able to make the investment there. Secondly, we wanted to know what entities were to be created in the areas of these investments. It turns out - as always, as everything in the PiS government - that this is just top secret. We can't find out what's going to be built there, what investors are going to be, what's going to be the surface, everything's just top secret. Of course Mr. Obajtek has a real estate hand or, I don't know, the driver sleeps. Mr. Prime Minister's father may be running again, not a sewing shop, but something else. But we already know your skills. [[The Member repeats itself.]] There's just... You're just not gonna make it. You don't make any investments, none at all. Maybe another rusty keel will rise there or something. [[The voice from the hall: The Minister of Sport PO will not beat.]] Constitutionality. I have to say, it's been a long time since I've seen a bill so crushed by the Legislative Bureau - crushed, just in terms of constitutionality, because not only. During the committee meeting, it turned out that when it comes to what this investment is, you really didn't really do anything... I mean, nothing's prepared, there's some neighboring properties, you don't know what it is. There is no guarantee of interest of the Treasury, no entry of an estimated operation. Since there is little time, I will say this: extremely sloppy legislatively, lack of attention to the interest of the Treasury, zero preparation for the implementation of this investment... [[Is that what you're accusing me of?]] ...and the woods (the bell) that PiS fucks to the power and under every pretext. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill was criticised - apart from the ruling coalition - by practically all those taking the floor on the opposition side. I look at it in a slightly different way, namely what in our reality, Poland, which is on achievements, is the most important. Today we have Poland people living in big cities, smaller cities, towns, villages. There are special areas in our country where, for various reasons, workplaces are being liquidated, whether because of non-containment of competition or others. And unfortunately, people are losing their jobs. I wouldn't wish anyone else here lost their livelihood. It's said here that we have to remember the children, the grandchildren. For a person who loses his job and has no chance of finding an alternative job, it's a tragedy. But it's also the tragedy of his family, his children, his grandchildren, maybe not. That is why I believe that sustainable development is the basis of our country. If there's a chance today... After all, we trade the land for land, and it is meant to be one where the forest can actually be planted. Why should the regions affected by the economic transition not give a chance to actually invest there for the needs of the local society? It's a local society, ladies and gentlemen, and it's ours, too. And let's not make this an extraordinary story that the world is going to collapse here. We are, as I said at the beginning, a country for achievements. The West has built a whole infrastructure, regulated rivers, roads, everything, and we need not so much to keep up or manage, but we just need to develop so that our society can also live at a really high level. I understand what ecology is, I know what respect for the environment is, but I live in a village where people lost their jobs. And where do they work today? On tape in the Czech Republic, because the Czech Republic doesn't want to, or in Germany. These are people of exploitation, second category. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not pleasant at all. Therefore, I would like to inform you that as near Kukiz,15 we will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, near the Polish Case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The problem that solves this bill is an authentic problem, notabene created by one of the laws, which cannot be circumventd in any other way than through the adoption of the second law. I will talk about this in a moment, because we often create some laws that cause problems, which then need to be solved with other rights. Nevertheless, the problem of investing in different areas is a problem that needs to be solved. This is where Mrs Paluch presented the real situation, where too late for decisions, e.g. through various consultations, through various activities, we can deprive ourselves of the opportunities for the development of industry, because not only is the world living in ecology, it is not the only way the world is developing. Neighbors are perfectly capable of dealing with some of these problems, and they don't take into account all the circumstances. There is no solution to such problems as those presented in the example of Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola, taking into account all interests in an optimal way. There must always be a compromise. Therefore, this problem of encouraging investors to invest in these areas is to be addressed. Is he solved in an optimal way? There have already been a lot of valid remarks about constitutionality, about the preservation of other laws and perhaps unnecessary involvement of the Sejm committees in decision-making. The Seym isn't for that. Nevertheless, I believe that our circle believes that this law should be supported. However, we are paying attention to the fact that we may be able to regulate this problem globally, which is not for Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola. Perhaps we should introduce some new legal solutions into a law that does not require such involvement and adoption of specialities, do not give God. These investments are large, but you may have to decide on much smaller investments and this unnecessarily involves the Sejm to sometimes too detailed solutions. It would be a good idea to think that there's a possibility in the Forest Act. The discussion that was here rightly drew attention to its imperfections. The aim is to take the initiative to address a problem such as this in an optimal way by complying with all the rules and taking into account all the reasons (the Bell). About Polish cases will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. 30 people came in. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] We're not gonna do any sequences, only people are gonna be invited to the podium in order. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon from Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u231	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, investments are needed, they are key in the region, in the whole region of the Silesian Voivodeship. It is a voivodship, which probably most in Poland, probably also in Europe, will suffer as a result of climate change and energy transformation. This type of investment, if it is, of course, carried out, because the certainty about the government's announcements, we never have what will be done and what will not, will obviously have a positive impact on the situation in the region. But I have two questions. The first concerns why the State does not implement this investment in the normal manner. Why a special bill when there's a mode in which it could be done in a normal and above all decent way? Secondly, was there really another location in Jaworzno itself (The Bell) that would meet the conditions that the present one meets? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jaworzno, in Jaworzno, because this is my constituency, there is another location, of course, post-industrial. There's no big problem with that. [[Maybe the marshal will give us a hint.]] Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u233	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Undoubtedly, this investment is needed in Silesia, just as others are needed. The transformation is ongoing. On the timeline the elimination of successive mines has been arranged, jobs will be missing, Silesia needs every investment. Minister! I have to ask you if there are any legal guarantees that will clearly tell us that you will build this factory of electric cars. We've heard about electric cars for many years. The point is, there's no way you're gonna cut out the woods and build any factory there. What are the legal guarantees today that this factory will be built in this area? And second question: What was the criterion for the location of this factory? Or just the letter of the alphabet? Jaworzno. I live in the Hawk-Zdroj. Maybe this factory could have been built on my property, too. This is J, there J. What finally decided to locate this factory (the Bell) in Jaworzno rather than in Hawk-Zdrój? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There's a pretty smart saying: don't cut the branch you're sitting on. Nature is our past, but above all the future. It's up to us how much we leave to her future generations. It seemed that there was no doubt, but above all it should not be subject to political disputes. After all, the environment is needed All of us, regardless of what we think. You guys want to breathe, too. In the meantime, it must be made clear that this is a government that hates trees. First, a law that allows developers to cut down trees without permission. [[Madam, what are you talking about?]] We remember how much she did wrong. Then the historical section of the Białowieża Forest, which was stopped only by your legitimate fear of financial penalties from the European Union. Now another punch. According to a survey of the magazine [[♪ The bell ♪]] Other data are already saying 250 million trees. These are the victims of your governments. A curiosity provision to build an electric car factory in areas after the cut-off is actually the essence of this power. There is still a dot missing over i, the new company Wycinki Polskie. Maybe some Moravian family driver is looking for a job for a relative or Mr. Sasin's sister-in-law needs a class? Try it. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Don't embarrass yourself.]] And the simple question is, why do you hate trees so much, and what new scam is behind it this time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After 5 years we finally got the first step towards the implementation of the great ecological idea of Prime Minister Morawiecki, 1 million electric cars. But what does it turn out to be? These green cars are to be built at the expense of 1246 hectares of forest, or about 12.5 million trees. Are you trying to convince people that you're going to protect the environment from fumes by cutting out millions of trees? After all, these trees also affect the cleanliness of the air. It's just not about air quality, it's about pure propaganda. In addition, these trees are located in Silesia, so the area already heavily exploited ecologically, and they fulfil a protective function there. So why do you insist on building a car factory right where it brings additional damage? We've shown you more convenient places to invest. If you ignore this, you'll set up the world's least green car factory (the bell) for green cars. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u238	Thank you very much. It probably doesn't change the discussion, but Jaworzno will dig it up. Historically, it is in Małopolska, but it is. It's a nice thing to do. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Reading this bill, I have a deep impression that I am reading an early prepared electoral leaflet for the elections in 2023. Electromobility, new technologies, innovative hydrogen technology, aviation - these are objectives and needs for which land can be converted from the State Forest Pool. Industry sectors have been identified that do not exist or are so marginalized by the current authorities that they simply do not exist. Why it is proposed to limit the areas of industry legally, thus cutting the possibility of converting land to needs e.g. prefabrication of housing components or other industries necessary in certain areas of our country? I would like to ask who and what this bill is supposed to serve. What kind of business are you going to turn again, gentlemen of the PiS, in connection with this bill? What's gonna build? I'd like a detailed list of the factories you're planning to build. I'm gonna ask for that answer in writing. The whole country says to you: Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, do not fuck Polish forests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We are dealing with the subject in the area of micro-, which concerns only a small section related to the State Forests. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland, in the depths in which I live, in Dąbrowa, in Będzin, in Sosnowiec, in Jaworzno, in Zawiercie, the State Forests are making a commercial cut-off. Maybe it's worth looking at the topic of this commercial clipping, which is done every year. I have this question: Minister, are you expecting a draft resolution in the near future, which will limit the logging of forests in urban communities that residents use these forests in the afternoons on weekends to rest? I know that forests are often a strong and media subject, especially during the pandemic (the Bell) when they are closed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga of the Civic Coalition. Let me get this straight: Wojtek is from Jaworzna. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u243	Yes, sir. As an inhabitant of the city of Jaworzna, it is certainly in the interest of the inhabitants of Jaworzna that new jobs should be created, especially in the context of mine closures. In the Śląskie voivodship, in this area the interest of residents is also to breathe clean air, and this, of course, is served by forests. These are not opposite interests and can be combined, but for some reason the government follows a different, faster path - instead of discussing arguments, or perhaps visiting the committee in the field to see what forests they are. I know what a forest it is, and there's a lot of lies here. But there is no time and argument is the parliamentary majority and roller, which is to be passed after this bill. Minister! The location of Jaworzno's Jizera was a holiday for the jurors. We were all happy to have such a factory (the bell), and we were proud of it. Today the city is in conflict. There are supporters of the forest and supporters of the factory. In fact, no one believes that this factory will be built there anymore. Minister, there's still time for this. I would expect the Minister of Climate to declare: a tree for a tree, one cut out, one planted, a declaration that the forest in Jaworzno and the surrounding area will not be destroyed for this reason. And, of course, I would expect a declaration... Because what guarantees do we have that this plant will be built there after we cut out this forest? There are many things that were promised and unfortunately did not arise. That's accurate information, Minister. What kind of forest is this? What's the story of this forest? What is the destiny of this forest? And what is the role of government, city president and special economic zone in Katowice in all this? That's what we're still not talking about here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law on which we are proceeding is another step that means the devastation of Polish forests. You wanted to introduce similar rules in May, but then the Sejm committees rejected this harmful project. This time the catalogue of investments to be created in the occupied areas was significantly expanded. It is worrying that forest land of exceptional natural value will be converted into land and other properties, for example. to post-industrial areas. Why would such a change be made without an obligation to pay for different values of land and property? In addition, a point has appeared in the National Reconstruction Plan concerning the need to acquire and prepare new investment areas, and its justification (The Bell) is delusionally similar to the provisions of the Act on which we are proceeding. To put it simply: for money from the Union, you want to cut out hectares of forests under factories. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u247	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions. First: On what basis were these specific plots entered in the law, and why these? Second: Why does the designer accept that current legal solutions hinder investment? Third: Why did the government skip the consultative path of NGOs? Fourth: If it is so easy for the State Forests to pick up the forest to build a factory in it, does the government consider similar solutions to create new or enlarged national parks in the areas it receives? And by the way, I will never agree with such logic that the supposedly clean air needs to be cut out 1,200 hectares of forest. Let's protect our forests. [[Applause]] [[Will you ever come in without a gadget, Member?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm from Wielkopolska, and you want to do a piece in Podkarpacie and Silesia. This is certainly worrying, because indeed: Does the investment process have to involve logging out forests? True, some people see benefits because if you cut out the woods and there's an investment, it's okay. I wanted to claim the economic forests that approach the nature reserves. E.g. I have a Golden Mountain nature reserve with only 120 hectares and is surrounded by economic forests that you powerfully cut out. You cut them out so suddenly it will be the Golden Mountain itself, the nature reserve, and we will look around and ask: Was there a forest here? Was it an economic forest? The woods are cut, and it shouldn't be like this. Don't go that way. Minister! Will there be a bill that will increase nature reserves, i.e. Will it increase their area? Isn't there a clipping that threatens the existence of such a forest? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another bill where even the Sejm Analysis Office doesn't leave a dry thread. This is a draft law that is completely incompatible with the Polish constitution - gentlemen of parliament from PiS, lately you are so often talking about it - with international law too. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, whether we are on the left, on the right, or on the centre, that it is our duty to take care of the development of investments, the creation of new jobs, new taxes that will affect municipalities and powiats, but the same duty is to take care of environmental issues. From the previous discussion we learned how many free areas we have for investment, also in Silesia, Podkarpacie, Zagłębie. It is not that these investments cannot be created because there is a forest, because next to this forest there are free spaces in which these investments can be realised. I would very much ask you to come to your senses, because I have the impression that in Poland there are only investment issues and that we do not see environmental issues. This concerns the government and, unfortunately, some representatives of local government. Times change and the issue of ecology is as important (the bell) as the economic issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This project is very dangerous. It introduces shortcuts that can be corrupt. Here is an example: there is agreement to land conversion, there is valuation of experts, of course no subsidies - according to the project. 10 years go by - failure to meet the target and according to the project there may be a payment of the valuation difference. What's the valuation? The project doesn't decide that. Was it measured ten years ago? It's almost 100 years in the real estate market. I believe that such records, which make general regulations, can make someone want to change and set a goal that he will never intend to achieve, and to pay off at a rate of 10 years ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u254	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been a member of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for almost two years. I repeat: forest protection, forest protection. This is, ladies and gentlemen, of course we're going to ask hundreds of questions. At least that's what every member should do, every member of this committee. Everything has been said about the procession of this law. But I'd like to ask you something like that. You didn't allow it because there wasn't enough time, a social voice. Enter the local fora of the towns where the green investment is to be created by cutting out hundreds of thousands of trees. Read these comments. First comment: Why can't the area on the other side of Przemsza and the highway go under these investments? Terrain within Birkenau and Kiedzkowice. I don't know the area. That's the kind of question. And Azotka's territory wouldn't be better? There would be fewer trees to cut in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Armed area, railway tracks brought in. There's a lot of comments like that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to protect the forests, not so quickly, at such a rate, to cut them out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about Turnicki National Park. I have already participated several times in such joint sessions of several municipal and district authorities. There are activists, environmentalists, local government officials, entrepreneurs, and this protest continues. There's protest, there's conflict, there's protest, there's one against the other. There is no decision to set up the Turnic National Park. Fears are huge. Locals, entrepreneurs are also afraid that they will lose their jobs. Will you make a decision? Is there any directional decision yet? What's next with this? Because this problem has been unresolved for 30 years, and every year it takes place there, I wouldn't call it the games, but there's a broad day's discussion going on, people are upset about each other (the bell), they're pissing each other off. A decision has to be made and it has to be made very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u259	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There are three problems with this bill: firstly, the deterioration of the state of nature; secondly, the depletion of the State Treasury's assets; thirdly, legislative errors. These mistakes make it very likely that local government officials will see a fig with poppy. They're just being cheated by the government. I have questions for the Minister. First of all, why wasn't there a public consultation? It was a classic wine-win situation. You could negotiate good terms, you could sit down with social organizations, with local governments, with residents. We could have negotiated a relationship. 2:1, we could negotiate the Turnic National Park, anything. Why didn't you? Why did you just screw it up? [[What a vocabulary.]] Secondly, how many alternative locations have been taken into account? I'd like a list of these locations, please. Thirdly, what will happen (the bell) if the trees are cut out and then it turns out that the European Union will not give money and that no investment will be there? Who's gonna pay for your mistakes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the provisions introduced by the government draft law on specific solutions related to the special purpose of forest land, it is intended to improve the acquisition of location for investments. The objective is to be achieved by temporarily extending the possibilities for conversion of forests, land, other properties of the State Treasury remaining on the Board of State Forest Farms. Both the objective of the project and the proposed measures are justified by difficulties in establishing the location for large investments. And if you and your fellow Members are wondering what this is all about, in short and intelligible: the aim is to cause irreversible environmental losses in forests. And here is the question: Why does the Polish government not want to take care of Polish heritage, do not want to take care of Polish forests, for this it wants to put its hand to environmental degradation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, we need investments and new jobs in the Silesian Voivodeship. The problem is that, looking at the achievements so far, it is hard to believe that the country will make these investments, and the effect will be that there will be neither investment nor forests. And the climate crisis is a fact. Floods, droughts, disasters - it's happening here and now. This project is sloppy. This project contains apparent safeguards that allow for arbitrary decision-making without looking at environmental issues. This project does not safeguard the interest of the State Treasury, because after 10 years after the swap it can be assessed whether the project has been completed or not. Ten years. And who will cover the costs of State Forests for the development and forest management of new land? What will ensure that this land is of the same natural value? What will ensure that when it comes to land likely to be recovered after 10 years, it will not be necessary to refinance it in order to clean it up? We don't have that kind of information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project must be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question is, why do we even need this bill? Didn't the government consider a simple topic to report to the state unit of the State Forests and say: we want to buy 26 ha in Jaworzno and 1000 ha or 260 ha and 1000 ha in the vicinity of Stalowa Wola, and just pay for it? Question one: Why do we even need this? Secondly, do the State Forests even agree to cut down forests here? Thirdly, if we're talking about Jaworzno, this is a factory project, so please let me know - it doesn't make any sense that the factory is building a government, but that's different things you're doing - whether the budgets for the following years are secured 4 billion PLN, as it is estimated for the construction of this factory. One last question or the last one. I'm asking for information on what's to be built on this $1,000. Ha in Stalowa Wola. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have the impression that if this law comes into force, you - especially with regard to Jaworzno - will stay, dear government of the PiS, with these areas, cut out of the forest like Himilsbach with English. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Parliamentary Club of the Citizens' Coalition - Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice have already accustomed us to the fact that it is a party full of hypocrisy. The Forest Specjat, also known as lex Izera, is a flagship example of this, because how else to define the law, according to which 1250 ha of forests will be cut out in Jaworzno and Stalowa Wola to set up a factory of Izer's electric cars. How else do you define the justification for cutting out hectares of forests by improving air quality? The peak of your duplicity is that you want to finance it with the EU's money from the Reconstruction Fund. I do not believe that there is an investment in the investment sent by you to Brussels: support for the preparation of investment areas for the needs of investment of a key importance for the economy to which you want to allocate 300 million euros, and at the same time the project (the bell) lex Jizera came into the Sejm. Minister! I ask for a clear declaration in writing that not a single euro from the EU Reconstruction Fund will go to the planned section of Polish forests under the factory. This would be a waste of important EU funds for irrational actions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to accept as a good coin a declaration that this list of parcels from Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola, which is included in this annex, was grounded and chosen only because it is the best location and there is no alternative. But why aren't you using the regulations that are currently in the law? And even the State Treasury would not have to spend extra money on it by buying it, after all, by deforesting it with the permission of the Minister. After all, he could bring it to a company that will manage this area, and these are usually economic zones. And one more question because you can expound, you can buy, you can expound, you can expound, by extending the public target list (the bell) for these epic projects. One more question, Mr. Marshal. If you want to do it in such detail, then why is there only a list of those areas that you want to deforest and replace, and there is no list - the switch is bilateral - what do you want to replace? The Minister argued to us that these would be the same value for forest management. Why isn't it here? Why are you so afraid to write Jaworzno and Stalowa I prefer the title as the legislators want? Who are you kidding and for what? For what purpose? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u271	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In the law on the special use of forest land, you write that you can cut forests to improve air quality. Is this supposed to be an ecojoke? We are in the midst of a climate disaster - in Poznań and other cities we felt it because of extreme rains - that's why every tree is priceless. Each one. And we're talking about hundreds of acres of forest. There is no investment needed more than nature conservation, and you want to cut 12.5 million trees under the electric car factory in Jaworzno. Is that where this mythical million electric cars are going to be built? Is that how you understand climate protection? Why do you, with the stubbornness of a maniac, take on bad and ungreen investments and ignore collective transport and cycling infrastructure? Why are you ready for the car manufacturer to cut out the woods, such as Bartek's oak, and you ignore Polish bicycle manufacturers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence. You forgot about them in anti-crisis shields, in KPO and in Polish Lada. Dear Your Majesty! You praise coal, you don't know your eco, but leave the woods alone. Stop it and spare your shame! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u273	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister, you are also a representative of the Government for Hunting and Forestry, which is why I wanted to ask about the situation related to Małopolska, the municipality of Skrzeszów. Eight days ago, we had the first outbreak of African swine fever there, so I wanted to ask you what the work on additional feral infections, the main disease carrier, looks like. I wanted to ask whether work is being carried out on securing the situation in the municipality of Skrzeszów in Małopolska and whether in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture there are work on system security of Poland in relation to this disease, additional sanitary bangs. We are well aware that the spread of this disease can lead to a great crisis concerning breeding in Poland, which (The Bell) is now going through very difficult times. So that I ask, Minister, for the answer to the question: What were the reactions in the municipality of Skrzeszów in Małopolska and are there systemic solutions for the whole of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this project it is proposed that property and land belonging to State Forests may be converted into other land and other real estate, but without the obligation to pay for the different value of the converted properties. This is clearly an action against the State Treasury. The project also provides that forests can be cut down and allocated to environmental investments. I wonder if the government is aware of the fact that it does not contribute to ecology or climate protection by grubbing up forests. The logging of forests under supposedly green investment is a paradox and a disgrace. There's only one reason for this. The purpose of this law is to own the national estate and the Treasury by friends of the rabbit. Creating places under the so-called: green investment by grubbing up forests does not go hand in hand with ecology. What's that really supposed to do? It's a psychic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u276	Thank you very much. I have a request for Mr Kossakowski. Sir, mask, mask. Such a kind request, because that's what we once decided. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Disaster climate change, devastating to the environment and to all of us on our planet, is a fact. These changes are due to human activity: greenhouse gas emissions and the cutting out of forests. In Poland they are revealed by systematic stepping, droughts, and now by gross floods. The United Nations and the WHO have agreed on the need to double the forest resources in the world, on our planet, to increase by 50% if we are to start thinking about slowing down the changes that are taking place. Meanwhile, in Poland forests are systematically harvested. The speakers were looking for reasonableness or proved irrational, and I think there's rationality here. This rationality is the desire for profit and the fact that the forest area (the bell) has been designated is not a coincidence or foolishness or lack of reflection, but is perhaps a desire to export wood. There is a growing demand for wood on the world markets, a growing demand for wood on the Chinese market. I have a question: Where is the timber exported from Polish forests? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, the basic question is: What are the entities to invest there? Tell us the secret. After all, it is something that is to be realized for all Poles, so we Poles have the right to this knowledge. And second question. I would ask both of these questions in writing because you might not be able to answer me right now just like that. As you know perfectly well, the premature cut-off and the exclusion from production are linked to penalties, which are included in the bill. In contrast, these entities are excluded from these penalties in this law. This is the income of a forest fund that, as you know, feeds national parks. Therefore, I would like to know, firstly, what is the amount of these penalties or what would be the penalties if these entities were not exempted (the Bell) from paying them, and secondly, whether the government made sure that the exemption from these penalties would not be unlawful public aid. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Gawada, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the debate there were many relevant statements, there was no lack of good discussion, concrete, positive opinions to the bill in question, but the scale of incorrect information formulated also by Members of the opposition, the Civic Coalition and Poland 2050 indicates that the basic purpose of the bill was not understood. There have been statements of unconstitutionality, destruction of natural monuments, degradation of the environment or deforestation. In her speech, one Member, who is already an important constitutional minister, already knows that the investment will certainly not be carried out, because there are organisations that can effectively block it. How do we know this? [[No, no. You're twisting my words very hard.]] I would also like to point out that the language of the debate and the aggression of the opposition do not leave any illusions. There are no substantive arguments on your part, although there is also some progress. In some of the Member's banners, we no longer see spelling errors and the surprise for the author of the survey has disappeared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I would like to ask you: What are the safeguards in the Law to protect the State Forests as well as to protect protected species? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Marshal, can I have one sentence ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u282	You're welcome. Mrs ad vocem. [[I didn't say my name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u283	You did not mention my name, Mr President, but you made it clear that it was my speech. Well, you misconstrued my statement. I said that I am convinced that this investment will not be realised because you are extreme losers and you cannot make any investment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[7 billion from public money.]] [[Voice from the room: I 2 billion to Ostrołęka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u284	And it started. [[You want us to bid?]] [[You're the last person who can...]] [[Voice from the room: 4 billion on TVPiS.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I don't know if there's any mode in which I can respond to these fights.]] No. You know what? Ladies and gentlemen, I always react, as you know, at times like this. Do you know why I didn't react? To show for a minute what a seym hall might look like without a marshal's reaction. Why fight? What's the point of throwing insects at each other? Did it help you both to the right and to the left? What's the point? Mr PiS says that there is a unique aggression on the part of the opposition. Sir, I've been in session for two years. I guarantee you, this particular discussion is not about aggression. Guards don't come in, they don't stand by the speaker and they don't let Members in. I do not interrupt people, as they say, Members, as they say. I'm not gonna excuse you from the gym. [[You don't offend Members.]] I'm really asking you to show some respect, like somebody else, and rightfully, they show a lot of respect. Just because someone screams and insults someone doesn't help anything. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Boj, the left club. Joanna, I'm asking you dearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of you asked: What are we going to produce there? What is the specific objective of developing innovation in these projects for which we want to destroy huge natural, ecological areas, cut out trees? We do not know the investor, we do not know the necessary amount of area to implement this secret investment. This is particularly true of Steel Wola. Is it certain that the investment will be carried out? Aren't you afraid that Stalowa Wola, by the way, my electoral region, after the adoption of this bill will be famous in a short time, but not for this planned investment, with this secret investment, just from the destruction and clipping of trees and forests and of course from the protests of environmentalists? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want an investment, absolutely. However, I believe that it is necessary to look for the right area, and such one in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship is not lacking to realize these investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u286	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sustainable development. I've heard of him for years. I always wonder why it is based on the fact that all investments are located in the belt from Lower Silesia, by Opolskie, Silesia, part of Małopolska and Podkarpackie. I wanted to ask the Minister about this sustainable development: Have you ever heard of some prestigious investment in the West Pomeranian, Kujawsko-Pomorskie or Warmia-Mazurskie and even Mazowieckie in the interior? I didn't hear it. And there are cities like Gryfice, the Pomeranian Stone, Goleniów, where there are economic zones where you don't have to cut a single tree, you just have to plant an investment. So why don't we start looking for areas that are prepared and not do something forcefully, destroying the green order in our country and cutting down the trees? That's the first question. Second question, Minister. I'd like to know, because people don't know, how many trees do we cut out every year? I'm not talking about the kind of information that's on the site, how much cubic meters we get, because people have no idea how much cubic meters it is. I would like to know how many hectares of trees we cut in 2019 and 2020? How many acres of trees? And last question: If there is a forest complex, let's say 1000 ha, and we cut 300 ha, then in your papers still this, is there a forest complex 1000 ha or 700 ha? [[Yeah, yeah, a thousand. Yes.]] ♪ 'Cause in my opinion ♪ There's still 1,000 ha in your house, and you'll always say you have 33,34% of the country's forestation, and it's actually less than 20%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, cut out...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was speaking on behalf of the club, but I wanted to ask you a detailed question about the whole project. Especially since an integral part of it is also an annex, in which is the specification of geodetic parcels to be used in each of these two locations for investment purposes. This would show in this specification that the state as a government already has a full understanding of what kind of investment will be there and what size these investors will cover in the possible investment process. I'd like to ask you a question: what kind of investors are they gonna be? Of course, except where the State's essential defence interests are concerned, if such investments are, because I understand that such information is of a discretionary nature. And the second issue is these margins (the bell) that make the state, I believe, at this stage in the regulation that you have put forward, expect that outside this area it may still be necessary to deforest or occupy areas that go beyond this investment, which would also indicate that it is prepared. Will these investments be financed by the National Reconstruction Plan? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u291	As with the investment concerning the Saski Palace, I will ask: Why do we need a specialty? Because I expect that if you issue any regulations, standards, the same will be a model of following them, that if you do something, it will fill out all the paperwork to the last stamp, to the last smallest annex. I don't agree that you're avoiding the yoke that you're putting on the back of another man's back. Yet people might think that these laws are pointless if you do not want to abide by them. But every time you do something, you make a special. Recently it was about a party in Katowice, about the Saski Palace and now this. ♪ Fuck it ♪ We, gentlemen of the nobles, but not us, right? Similarly, these economic zones. I don't understand why we're making some islands that are worth investing on, and the other parts aren't supposed to pay off. Why can't the whole country be an economic zone to the same extent? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This also causes misallocation, because investments are located not where logistics fits most, but where the economic zone is. That is why we do not agree that you should once again adopt special provisions for yourselves alone. I don't understand why you're building a factory.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u292	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few years ago, you accused the Civic Platform, the charges were obviously false, that he wanted to privatize the woods. The truth is, it's the PiS who wants to privatize them with this bill. I ask: Why do you fuck Polish forests to the power? I'll tell you why. This law allows a situation in which a large part of the forest can be cut off under private power plants built by a private investor, then not built for 10 years. After 10 years you will be able to ask for a change in the spatial planning plans and build a magnificent housing estate there. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a developer. That's what you were trying to do on Westerplatte the other day. We raised the scream and thanks to it Minister Gliński withdrew. For 6 years, the PiS government (the bell) has indented over 200 million trees. It's almost seven cut trees per Pole. [[Voice from the hall: How much did he plant? 1 billion.]] As the Civic Coalition, we have prepared a draft law on forest protection. He's with your marshal. Put this project on the committee and support it, because the whole world is calling for forest protection, and we're cutting it out. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, yes, the whole world.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u294	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Edward Sark, will try to answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister. Can you do that? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! I'll do my best. Unfortunately, the theme of today's discussion is Mr. Donald Tusk's speech, which told you some nonsense about forest policy. [[Tusk's wine again.]] That's what you're saying today. I'll remind you, for example. a statement by the Member who spoke about the number of trees cut out in Poland. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that we are talking about clipping only when we are making investments that are related to the fact that we must, for example, do. acquire land for the construction of the road. In fact, then we can say that somehow we are dealing with a clipping. In other cases, however, it is a normal forest economy that is used to obtain ecological and renewable raw materials. Annually we plant in Poland, ladies and gentlemen, 500 million trees. [[Applause]] Lesity in Poland thanks to hard work of foresters since World War II has increased from 20% to 30%. It is only thanks to the hard work of foresters that the structure of forests is also very rich in wood resources compared to the rest of Europe. This is our great achievement. [[Applause]] What I'm trying to say is that we only owe it to the foresters, even though their work in this room is so messed up. I'm moving on to what's the subject of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about a public consultation. The city council of Stalowa Wola... President Stalowa Wola is in this room and is asking you, parliamentarians of all political options, with an appeal for the adoption of a law proposed by the government that designates the area of the strategic investment park in Stalowa Wola. The city of Stalowa Wola was built as part of the brilliant economic idea of deputy prime minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. On 5 February 1937, it was adopted by the Sejm's committee over political divisions, a plan for the construction of the Central Industrial District. Less than 2 months later, on March 20, 1937, the first pine was cut and the construction of the Central Industrial District in Sandomierz Forest began. At a record rate of 26 months and 26 days, a state-of-the-art southern plant was created. Ladies and gentlemen, we wish that this could be built in Poland. These are our needs and these are the needs of the country's development. When I listen to your comments, I hear in each of them - beyond divisions - for investment. Nobody says otherwise. For investment in Silesia, for investment in Podkarpacie. We also say this to protect forests, to protect nature. Thanks to this work, which the foresters have been doing for years, it can be said that the forests in Poland are very well and are in good condition. [[We have a completely different opinion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention in this context the sentence that has been said here. I keep referring to the unfortunate words that were uttered at the beginning of this week by a well-known politician. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no complete logs in Poland, about which one of the Members spoke, reaching 300 ha. Only 4 hectares are found in the state forest policy. That's the maximum. The tree in Poland is obtained in 50% by the so-called. fluttering, which is just thinning the stands. Foresters try to make the light better reach the individual trees that reach the age of distinction. The rest of the tree is produced by various types of droughts and care activities, while the soil is a really small fraction. This policy is pursued on the basis of a sustainable policy. Once again, I stress: sustainable, with all the objectives and functions of forests. It's a basic thing and you have to talk about it all the time and show it. There was a question of consultation with the Environmental Commission. I explained in the committee that although legislators actually point out that this provision can be constitutionally problematic, and they're getting divorced about it, it's just that this whole land conversion process - once again I stress: not to get rid of the land, but to replace the land - is transparent. We want to do this before the Environment Commission so that Members can look at this process. The point is that this process doesn't arouse emotion. Under the current law, we could, of course, carry out other operations related to purchase, sales. Even there was an idea that the woods would give this land free of charge, and that option was also considered. On the other hand, in our actions - and in my capacity as Minister and Representative of the Government - we want to lead to a situation where no one in this Chamber will say that we have in any way reduced the wealth of the State Forests. That's why we're talking about switching. [[But not in the woods.]] Ma'am, what's called forest land in the register isn't always forest. [[Oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] The point is, we don't confuse concepts. On the other hand, we are talking about the fact that under no circumstances do we want to allow State Forests' assets to be depleted. And this is what they require of us - honestly I can say - also foresters, naturalists, requires society. This is where we have this difficult conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, why originally the Silesian State Forests gave a negative answer to this idea. Because the original land development plan for Jaworzna assumed that this land would be given to the forests for free. Unfortunately, here the city also made a mistake with regard to the argument. At the beginning, the forests were negatively affected by the conversion or acquisition of land by the Judorzinian zone, but today the process is at a completely different stage. It's a parcel case. These are the areas that are directly adjacent to the areas that already operate, to areas that have infrastructure, areas that have been identified as those that have adequate communication access, where the gas infrastructure is adequate, are drained out of sewage, there is water, there is the possibility of building large plants that will provide jobs. It is estimated that around $15 billion will be invested together in these areas. Some investors are already known today, some will be known soon. I can say: we wish that, according to what the councillors wrote down, this investment, like the years before the war, was carried out at the rate at which politicians of the Second Republic could do it. Let us wish for it and not build a spirit in this room, which has often unfortunately appeared in the speeches, as if Members wanted it not to work. 'Cause what's it gonna be if it works? Let us make sure that we succeed and that you have the satisfaction of participating in something that actually translates into the development of Poland, in which you have, so to speak, participation. [[And protecting the climate by cutting out the trees, right?]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, if we're talking about trees, if we're disappointing that we're using the tree as a raw material, I'm asking you what we want to replace it with. Glass? [[He, he, he!]] Metal, plastic? Or maybe an aluminum that needs 250 times more energy than 1 m. There are also questions about side issues which are not related to this law, e.g. such as the issue of the Tornite park. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about national parks, first of all I would like to draw attention to the fact that for today there is no such park and there is no indication that it will arise, because unless there is a local community's consent to the creation of the park, there is nothing to talk about, it is simply written in Polish regulations. And so far, the consent of local communities does not exist, because the madness that we often cultivate around these parks makes the local people simply afraid. We're under the wall, among others. through such discussions as we have seen today, for example, on certain issues relating to this bill. This case is also very difficult to organize in Polish conditions. What entities will they invest and is there no public aid here? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no public aid. After all, the project clearly states that there is a switch between public and not private entities. That's why, among other things. There are these provisions of the bill so that there is no exchange, suspicion that some individuals will benefit from it, i.e. see: oh, they privatize the forests. There's no such thing. We could talk about the fact that such a process takes place if we allow private parties to do so. There are no private entities here, we only allow public entities, in this case the Treasury and local government units. I don't know if you're acting in my time, Mr. Marshal. Yeah, I'm watching... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Yes? Okay. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there are a lot of questions and there are different questions that relate to specific issues. I answer only in a cross-cutting way to those that relate to each other and which are related to a cross-cutting view of the problems that you have raised in your statements. Of course, are there legal guarantees that there will be an investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantee itself as such in the Act is not written down. This is the subject of negotiation, this is the subject of procedures. First of all, when we show that we have such areas, it is also investors who today ask the Polish government if we have such land - and in Europe there is a great hunger for investment areas - that we will show that we have such land. However, today we have investors who are already interested at the entrance to invest in those areas that we point to as areas of potential investment, i.e.Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. But, Minister, I just wanted to ask. I understand that you no longer consider the possibility of shifting this investment in Jaworzno from one place to another. This is a closed topic for you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Please bear in mind that it may turn out that ultimately e.g. There will be some other solution found and there will simply be no substitution of the ground, simply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u296	All right, thank you very much, Minister. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me answer this range of questions, which concerned investment in Stalowa Wola, because there were questions as to why Stalowa Wola in this act was distinguished and why specific plots located in the administrative area of Stalowa Wola are indicated there. But so that my statement is not taken politically and very subjectively by you, especially from the opposition, I will use the position and, in principle, the resolution of the City Council in Stalowa Wola, which was adopted a few days ago. The city council in Stalowa Wola has 23 councillors from all political options. Of course, most of the Law and Justice, but there are also representatives of the Civic Platform, there are also representatives of the Democratic Left Alliance, and there is also a representative of the Kukiz party15. All together like one husband, by acclamation, there wasn't even a vote... In this room we sometimes forget what aclamation is, although there are draft resolutions that appreciate Polish heroes or important historical events and we accept them by aclamation. The City Council in Stalowa Wola, which was adopted by the acclamation, expresses its huge support for this bill. And on the city council, like I said, there are people with different political options. There is, for example. Member of the Democratic Left Alliance from 2001 and 2005 Joanna Grobel-Proszowska, who supports this draft law. She, too, for years as a Member of the Sejm and later as Councillor of the city of Stalowa Wola, tried to ensure that the area lying by the economic zone, and in principle in the economic zone, could be used for investment purposes. And only now can this work. I hope that's what's gonna happen. This bill has supported... Minister, on the subject of former Members, I would propose to listen to what Mr Boj from this area has to say at the moment, because he is from the Left and I think he has a different opinion. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I propose that he come to his office in Stalowa Wola and talk to Mrs Grobel-Proszowska. I, too, would like to invite you to this meeting, sir. Civic Platform - the Minister of Infrastructure Cezary Grabarczyk is here with us. She probably remembers Mrs Renata Butryn. Two terms in the Sejm 2007 and 20112015, now city councilwoman in Stalowa Wola. I vote against the budget that is proposed by the president of the city, always, totally... [[Please answer the questions.]] And here he supports this bill, he doesn't see any threats that are being formulated by you. Because neither from the legal side nor from the political side are these threats. I say this to you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to what the government says. You ask us to do this a lot. I try, as Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, always to take into account local government votes, I think that the laws or programs we have at our disposal are the best expression of this. I would also ask you to vote in favour of this bill, above the political divisions, paying attention to the economic development of Stalowa Wola. Another very important topic for forests that are now owned by the State Forests. These plots were owned by Huta Stalowa Wola several years ago. These parcels were intended for economic purposes. As part of the huge difficulties and complications suffered by Huta Stalowa Wola in the years of the transformations, they were transferred to the Treasury as compensation for unpaid taxes. So that the use of these parcels was intended to be economic and I hope it will be economic. And President Stalowa Wola, who is here with us at the gallery, is creating a huge, huge program of forestation of the city. [[But there was supposed to be an answer to the questions. Marshal, answer the questions.]] He wants to plant over 50,000 in Stalowa Wola. trees... [[100,000. The trees will be cut out, 50,000. She'll plant it.]] ...just so that the people of our city don't feel invested, they don't feel the destiny of this forest area, which lies, once again, in the economic zone, for economic purposes. That is what environmental policy should be about. Environmental policy is about planting trees. [[It's not an environmental policy.]] And the more you criticize the rule of law and justice, the stronger the words fall... And what are these words read from, my fellow Member? Cards. And the paper from where? Wood. You can drink soy lattes, you can even eat meatless chops, but you used here, on this speaker, paper, as if promoting ecological attitudes. What can you call it other than hypocrisy? Take advantage of what modern technology gives us. Each of us has a tablet, each of us has a phone, so you can express your opinion. And just so we're clear, I'm not criticizing it, I'm stating the fact. I use paper, too, just like I say, like all of us. That's our life, that's our world. The trees that are destined for economic purposes, as Minister Sulphur said, are being replaced in a moment, which makes our country's forests grow. As far as Steel Wola is concerned - and it's also worth knowing - it's 60% Its surface is the forest. The surface of the Steel Wola 60% consists of a forest. Really, what will be used for economic purposes will be replaced by other parcels that will be forested. I would like to ask you to support this bill in the name of the economic interest of Poland, because there is also proper forest activity preserved here, which is guaranteed by the State Forests, to which I thank you very warmly for the real amount of work done over the years in favour of green Poland. Respect these people. You do not have to respect us, we are politicians, we have thick skin, but respect those who have cared for Poland for centuries to be green and now make sure that green Poland is growing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u298	Thank you, Minister. Rapporteur Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u299	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Of course, I listened with great attention to these club speeches, as well as the questions that were being asked, and I honestly said that I listened with some disappointment to such statements as: yes, yes, build, just not cutting out the woods. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bit like talking to members of local communities who say, "Yes, yes, I need a sewer, but I'm not gonna let go because of mine." Certain conditions, which must be met in order for Poland to grow economically, sometimes require such action as is intended by the law discussed here. I understand, gentlemen, that the licenty of the opposition MEP's statements has its conditions, but, please, if you are rooting and applauding the European Commission when it imposes restrictions on Poland, when you are urging the government to meet all the issues of energy transformation, which is a long, costly process, requiring a lot of effort and action and producing in really great human tragedies... Because I understand that some people working in mines are leaving because of retirement age, but very many of them will have to reclassify. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about new investment areas here, so let me remind you once again the example of the BWM, when you needed 600 hectares of terrain armed with access. Well, it turns out that there are no such ones available at once. No investor will wait 1 year, 2, 3 or 5 years until the area is properly armed and prepared for construction, because time is money, and you know it. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes you just have to look for areas where they are already available. If we're talking about investment issues... Some of you have spoken here as if they simply had it in their small fingertips, and they are unaware of the complexity of this process, from what preparation it is necessary to arm the area. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just about having a large reserve of land, so that the area is armed with media, so that it has all the necessary transports, and that there will be communication: rail and car and every other one. Human capital, or qualified people, is still an important issue. There are people in Silesia looking for a job, so that's where you have to locate investments. It seems to be obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one more point here. Too many questions have been asked: whether it is necessary to do so by means of a specialty. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have 11 specials. All important social investments were carried out by means of specializations. We have a road special, we have a rail special, we have a gas pipeline special, we have a specialty regarding the Central Communication Port and a number of other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the countries of the old Union with which we must compete... And we're not in a burned position here, because it's enough to trace export data from recent months and you can see that Polish industry, business is doing great. We have this data on the economy and we see that the Polish economy is developing rapidly, but please note that the countries of the old Union first built networks of wheeled roads, motorways, rail transport and then designated Natura 2000 areas. And we had to do it in reverse. This is particularly difficult because of the procedure, for all documents. You know perfectly well that the procedure for obtaining permission to enter the area and implement the investment is two-step. Not to mention the acquisition of the area concerned by the project. The whole location thing, the whole building permit thing... In the case of the plants we are talking about, these are decisions about environmental conditions, which are simply very complicated procedures. If we do not have areas, large, compact areas where there are no problems with property, then we will simply lose competition, just as we lost to Hungary on this bet I was talking about. Get out of your opposition once and think about your constituents taking advantage of it, and support this bill, because it's worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u300	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u301	The Law on special solutions related to the special purpose of forest land, over which we are working today, is very important for the development of two Polish cities: Jaworzna and Stalowa Wola. It is also important in relation to the needs and objectives of the country's policy, inter alia. with improved air quality or strategic production for state defence. Why are only these two towns selected for this moment? Does the government envisage further investments in other localities in the perspective? Are these areas protected? It goes on for example. Landscape stripes, Natura 2000 area? In whose management were the land in Stalowa Wola, a city that wants to grow? Will the conversion also apply to private land?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u302	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act (prints No. 1393 and 1406). I would very much like to ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u303	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act, print No 1393. The purpose of this law is to introduce state examinations into the driving position. Currently, both driver training and examination are carried out by the same bodies: training and examination centres, which are not public institutions. The draft law introduces major changes related to the entitlement of drivers. According to the project, training of train drivers candidates will be entrusted to training centres that will be created from transformed training and examination centres. In turn, the exam itself will belong, as in the case of road vehicle drivers, to the state institution - in this case to the President of the Railway Transport Office. The examination will be carried out at the premises of the Railway Transport Office or in one of its field departments. The driver's licence test will be a theoretical test conducted in the form of a test. It should be noted that a candidate for a driver must obtain one more document, in addition to the driver's licence already in possession under European Union law, before being admitted to work. driver's certificate as the driver's licence itself does not entitle the driver to drive the train. The draft law provides for a similar solution for driver's certificates as for obtaining a licence, namely training centres which will be created from transformed training and examination centres. In turn, the exam itself will belong to the President of the UTK. In addition to the theoretical part of the test, as well as the practical part of driving along the train track in the driver's cab, the test with the president of the UTK will be enriched by the practical part carried out in the driving simulator. The part of the exam carried out using the simulator will be designed to check the response to emergency and dangerous situations. The examination will be carried out by examiners employed by the President of the UTK. Given that training centres will continue to be responsible for training and certification during the practical part, i.e. practical driving, in the driver's cab next to the UTK examiner there will be an additional examiner from the training centre itself holding driving licences for the type of railway vehicle in which the test is carried out. It is planned that the training centre will carry out an internal examination of the candidate from the knowledge of the type of railway vehicle and the railway infrastructure in which the examination will be carried out before admission to the State examination. It should be stressed that the essential objective of the Act is to increase the safety of rail traffic by ensuring a uniform and reliable testing system for train drivers. The draft law was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2021, print No 1393. Its first reading took place at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee yesterday. In the vote, all Members supported this proposal unanimously. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u304	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Peter King of the Parliamentary Club to speak first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u305	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act 1393 and 1406. The draft law amending the Rail Transport Act aims to introduce state examinations into the driver's position. Currently, both driver training and examination are carried out by the same bodies, i.e. training and examination centres, which are not public institutions. The draft of this law introduces major changes related to the acquisition of rights by drivers. According to the project, training of train drivers candidates will be entrusted to training centres that will be created from transformed training and examination centres. In turn, the exam itself will belong, as in the case of road vehicle drivers, to the state institution, in this case to the President of the UTK. The examination will be carried out at the premises of the Railway Transport Office or in one of its field departments. The driver's licence test will be a theoretical test conducted in the form of a test. It should be noted that a candidate for a train driver must obtain one more document before he is admitted to work in addition to the driver's licence already in possession under European Union law, i.e. driver's certificate as the driver's licence itself does not entitle the driver to drive the train. In the case of driver's certificates, the draft law provides for similar arrangements as for obtaining a licence, i.e. training will be entrusted to training centres that will be created from transformed training and examination centres. With glue the exam itself will belong to the president of the UTK. In addition to the theoretical part of the test, as well as the practical part of driving on the train track in the driver's cab, the test with the president of the UTK will be enriched by the practical part carried out in the driving simulator. The part of the exam carried out using the simulator will be aimed at checking the response of the tested to emergency and dangerous situations. The examination will be carried out by examiners employed by the President of the UTK. Given that training centres will continue to be responsible for training and certification during the practical part, i.e. practical driving, there will be an additional examiner in the driver's cabin outside the UTK examiner from the training centre itself holding driving licences on the type of railway vehicle in which the test is carried out. It is planned that the training centre will carry out an internal examination of the applicant's knowledge of the type of railway vehicle and railway infrastructure to which the examination will be conducted before admission to the State examination. It should be stressed that the essential objective of the Act is to increase rail safety by ensuring a uniform and reliable system for testing drivers. I would like to say that in this case the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law on amending the Rail Transport Act is the result of an analysis which was carried out at the Railway Transport Office. The President of the UTK is the initiator of this amendment. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, there is a very interesting argument why the President of the Railway Transport Office calls for this to be introduced in place of the existing system, which is in line with the general principle in the European Union, with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. that wherever the State does not have to intervene, other entities can do so. In the case of training and examination of train drivers, we have so far had these training and examination centres, but the President of the Railway Transport Office noted a reduction in the level of safety in rail transport. This follows very precisely from this table, to which I refer all Members who have doubts as to whether to introduce this new system, a system based on a State exam. That argument convinced me. I was also convinced by these arguments that concern a generation gap. It's a 17,000 increase. the number of drivers with short internship. In such a situation, the State should propose solutions. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Railway Transport Authority, has prepared this amendment. My previous speakers spoke about how this exam should be conducted. I will not repeat this scheme in this respect, but I will say that the State exam, also in other transport sectors, is something on the agenda, it is a principle both in maritime transport and in air transport. There is therefore no compelling reason why this rule should not be introduced in rail transport. The examination for both the licence and the certificate will be of a state character. Let's add that this is 17,000 at the moment. drivers who form the basis of the rail transport system. At the same time, it is 89 companies that employ drivers. This isn't a big scale when we compare the number of holders of driving licenses with this. We have 22 million drivers with the number of transport companies I'm not gonna talk anymore. But I want to say one thing: this is the first step to increase safety in rail transport. We need to talk and ask for another, so we need to work time for the drivers. Just as we have a driver's working time bill and it is known that a truck driver cannot exceed the permissible limit, the same must apply to drivers. I will ask for this, also on behalf of the drivers, who have reached the Members of this House and asked for (the bell) to encourage the government to act quickly. This project has already been created. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u308	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Karolin Pavliczak, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rail transport is the second most important road transport sector in the land transport sector, and security is one of the most important issues. In the near future, the railroad will face important challenges. The implementation of the European Rail Traffic Management System will lead to significant changes in the work of train drivers and on-call traffic, and the automation of rail work is gaining momentum, resulting in the need for training on new skills. The draft law amending the Rail Transport Act is therefore intended to introduce state tests for the driver's position. I do not really know why it took so long that drivers, as the only professional group responsible for driving, had not yet taken the State exam. The new solution will objectively assess both the skills and the quality of training for drivers. The Act introduces a very important monitoring system for drivers in the field of their professional competence. The introduction of state exams for this position is one of the elements of the comprehensive operation of the President of the Railway Transport Office, hereinafter referred to as the President of the UTK, aimed at ensuring a safe and competitive rail transport market in Poland. The solutions introduced are the result of detailed analyses of European Union legislation. The bill also provides for the creation of a central register of drivers, which collects consistent and reliable data in one place, distributed so far in different databases. It introduces provisions allowing access to the employee's data collected in the register. The collection and exchange of this information between the operators responsible for ensuring the safety of rail transport is a necessary and proportionate measure to ensure the effective management of the identified risks relating to the personnel of drivers and drivers of railway vehicles. It is precisely the lack of possibility for railway operators and infrastructure managers to exchange information on personnel performing critical to safety operations that poses a threat to the safety of the railway system, e.g. by allowing people who are tired or who do not meet other requirements to work. So, as you can see, many of these changes introduce favourable solutions for the safety of rail transport in our country, but this project - and it is worth mentioning here - does not contain an extremely important, even fundamental issue, having a direct impact on the safety of rail traffic, which is the central register of working time. There are no real tools to control the working time of drivers today, and unfortunately the Labour Code does not fully secure this. The creation of a central time management system for drivers and the improvement of the train training system would be a coherent, good step towards the efficient management of human resources. In view of the importance of the proposed amendments, the draft should also be the subject of the work of the Task Force. Economic policy and the labour market, however, has run out of time. The trade union organisations that have asked us on this issue also asked the Railway Transport Office to urgently restore the appropriate consultation procedure by the Social Dialogue Council, taking into account the statutory time limits for the opinion of such important draft laws and enabling the RDS to present a position that will be taken into account in the legislative work. In view of the above, on behalf of the Left Club, I submit an amendment to this project, which will guarantee such a record of working time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u311	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the government draft law amending the law on rail transport, prints No. 1393 and 1406. The Sejm Infrastructure Commission gave a positive opinion on Tuesday on the draft law on rail transport, which establishes among others. introducing state tests for a train driver. The draft amendment by the infrastructure department assumes, among others, the introduction of state tests for train drivers and the creation and keeping by the President of the UTK of the national electronic register of train drivers and drivers. At present, drivers, as the only professional group among those responsible for driving, are not covered by the State exam. The new solution will objectively assess both the skills and the quality of training for drivers. This was mentioned by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure. At present, drivers are not covered by this national examination, and both train and trainer examination are carried out by the same bodies, training and examination centres, which are not public institutions. The driver's licence exam will be a theoretical test conducted in the form of a test, and the candidate for a driver before being admitted to work will also have to obtain the so-called driver's licence. a driver's certificate because, in accordance with European Union law, the driver's licence itself does not entitle the driver to drive the train. The estimated cost of the project co-financed by the Operational Programme is, as the Minister said, less than PLN 37 million. The aim of this law is to improve railway safety. The president of UTK Ignacy Góra paid attention to the uniform standard of exams. Today these standards are as many as the training centers. There are 40 such centers on the list of the president of the UTK. The driver's certificate examination will be conducted using simulators reflecting modern electric locomotive, electric traction unit and manoeuvring locomotive. The President of UTK estimates that the training costs will not exceed PLN 750 for conducting the licence exam and the three-stage driver's certificate exam. They will be borne by the driver once in his life, in accordance with current regulations. Both the training and the examination of the driver's licence and driver's certificate shall be carried out by the training and examination centre. On the other hand, the project envisages the introduction of a single State exam carried out by the President of the Railway Transport Office. It's about the driver's license exam, driver's certificate, extended to this part on the simulator. The new solution implements the provisions of the 2030 Sustainable Transport Strategy. In the rail transport section, it is said that after the entry into force of the novel there will be a separation of training and testing functions for drivers. Training will continue to run training centres for train drivers and train applicants, and exams will be conducted by the President of the UTK, who is the central government body, national safety authority and national rail transport regulator within the meaning of European Union legislation on safety, interoperability and regulation of rail transport. The project also provides for the creation and keeping by the President of the UTK of a national electronic register of drivers and railway vehicles. Records will be kept in the register concerning the qualifications of drivers. Data will be collected in the records by means of ICT applications. It is all data relating to persons working in railway stations related to the driving of a railway vehicle, candidates for these positions, as well as persons who have withdrawn their entitlement to drive a railway vehicle. According to the information provided by the infrastructure department, 4732 persons, or 364 persons on average, should enter the profession by 2031. Given that this is supposed to improve safety on the railway (the bell) - much has happened recently on the railway, so we also need to fix it - we will support this bill as a club of the Polish Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u313	Here's another unnecessary change once again supported by a whole bunch of fours, which is not a big surprise. We're heroically solving a problem that just doesn't exist. The rail accident rate is generally falling, reaching a historic minimum in 2019. Nor do we depart from neighbouring countries in this respect. So there is no reason to believe that our problem is not well-tested drivers. The data that Mr Grabarczyk referred to before me is at least ambiguous, because in recent years... While the number of incidents in two categories C44 and B04 has increased for several years, it has been falling for three years. And with B04 at the moment is even less than in 2013. So that doesn't justify what you're trying to prove. In addition, you should rather look at the cumulative accident rate, which, as I said, was the lowest in 2019. I did not find the 2020 data, but in 2019 there was a historic minimum. First rule of the legislature, first rule of a wise ruler should be: if something isn't broken, don't fix it. Unfortunately, our government has the opposite motto. That motto sounds like something to mess up. If you don't settle something this week, it's just your hand that's itchy. If you don't put your clumsy fingers somewhere to regulate something that's been working well so far, you're gonna be sick. When I asked the Minister why we were doing this, he pointed out this problem with the growing number of cases of omissions in previous years. As I said, in 2019, 2020 this number slightly but decreased. Secondly, the drivers do not ignore the signal 'Stop' because they do not know that it must not be ignored. It's not a matter of no official stamp from headquarters. That's not why they ignore him because they didn't pay the minister an extra 750 PLN for the state exam. Maybe they ignore it out of neglect, maybe out of fatigue, maybe not well enough to enforce the current laws for violating these laws, but certainly not because they ignore it, that we lack state exams. So it's nothing more than another manifestation of your mania of centralization. This is another bureaucratic barrier that will discourage the profession, another obstacle that citizens will have to overcome, another pseudo-tax, a racket that you will be taking off this time with those who want to become train drivers. The Confederation will vote against this and I hope that, unlike the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, we will not be (the bell) alone in this. And I would point out that you gave false data because it wasn't unanimous. I voted against.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u314	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u315	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law amending the law on rail transport. High Izbo! The aim of the project is de facto to introduce state exams for drivers. In the current legal state, such examinations are carried out by centres which are also training centres. Therefore, there were a number of reasons that led the government to prepare this project. The Infrastructure Committee held a meeting on this matter alone. During this meeting, UTK representatives, but also ministries, reported and presented information on drivers and training and the prospect of involving train drivers with state training. This bill, I understand, is a continuation of this operation. It should be mentioned that this is probably the only area in such areas of public transport or in general transport, where examinations are carried out by private centres. I think it's a digression in this context. Some time ago, the Ministry of Infrastructure was working to dismantle the test system for drivers. It was supposed to go in the same direction that we're giving up today by proceeding over this bill. However, it seems that such a regulation, where the training system or these training centres and the training process are institutionally separated from this examination element, is a good solution, also because it avoids a number of such events, a number of such negative phenomena that occur, just as it is today, in the case of conducting training and exams for drivers. I could mention a lot of these negative effects, but I think it's already been discussed at first reading. On the other hand, I think it is worth mentioning one thing that maybe today is not very clearly seen. Well, such regulation can have an impact on how costly the working time of the driver will be. I therefore call on the Minister to perhaps consider regulation which would reduce costs for rail transport in other areas of activity (the Bell), e.g. on access to railway infrastructure, track infrastructure. I think that this project is going in the right direction and Poland 2050 will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u316	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The envoys asking questions are 17. So I'm going to set 1 minute for the question. You're welcome in accordance with the order of applications. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of a separation of training from examination is a step clearly in the right direction. It is also important that not only are there different subjects, but also that those who test are not those who train. I have three specific questions. How many drivers will continue to work in the profession after retirement age? Is there statistics on how much one train driver works on average a year, bearing in mind that we have a clear employment deficit in this profession? The third question relates to the employment of women in the driver's profession: Shouldn't the Ministry or Railway Transport Office carry out an additional campaign encouraging women to choose this extremely responsible, necessary, but also a well-paid profession? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Women on trucks and tractors!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you, first of all, about the time of trainer training. We all know that today there is a debate between Members in the plenary room. Minister! Important thing: it's a matter of time before train drivers. Is the Ministry considering introducing solutions that will shorten this time? I ask because today it seems that our drivers are trained twice as long as drivers in many other countries across Europe. The second question concerns the costs of the exam. Can the Minister give an estimate of the cost of this process? I would very much ask for a specific answer to these questions. And the third thing I mentioned in my club speech: Is the Ministry considering introducing solutions that will reduce the operating costs of companies operating in other aspects of the operation, e.g. in the case of access to infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u321	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Let me ask you a question about perhaps not specifically the current law, but a very important thing, a very important thing for the inhabitants of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, who has been seeking for years since 2018 to open rail, passenger transport, to start a connection with the capital of the region, that is, Katowice, and that we are a border town with the Czech Republic, also this border link. The new President has been focusing local governments since 2018, and in the last term she convinced the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, who signed this agreement, in the current term with the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, she signed an agreement. If the Minister had news today, I'd like him to tell us when we can look forward to this railroad in the city, the passenger bell, when it will rise. If that's not possible today, I'd ask for such information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm having second thoughts about the project. In many powiats and communes of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, drivers will not find employment, because there is simply no railway infrastructure. For example, inhabitants of the Sępolenski district have been deprived of rail transport for years. More than 20 years ago, he crossed the last train on line 281, train stations and train stations scare like a ghost. The proposed railway+ programme will influence the creation of new connections, in my district it is Bydgoszcz - Koronowo - Socbork - Sośno - Sępolno Krajńskie - Chojnice, and revitalization of railway lines, Znin - Bydgoszcz or Znin - Inowroclaw. However, the preparation of the documentation required in the programme is already becoming a huge problem, as it is necessary to bear large costs, not to mention the 15% contribution of local authorities to the investment of several hundred million. This is simply an insurmountable problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to know if the Ministry knows these problems of local governments and how it intends to support local authorities in their resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2017, the Railway Transport Office with the then Minister of Education and the Minister of Infrastructure pointed out problems related to the training of train drivers. It was noted that 57% professional drivers are well over 50 years of age. I would like to ask why the government has waited four years to make the necessary changes in the process of training staff necessary for the functioning of this important economy for our lives. During the consultation of this project with railway environments, there was also a question which I would like to ask, Minister, on this occasion. Namely, the question is: When will the government deal with the transformation of PKP PLK from a commercial law company into a government agency based on the general management of roads? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The money saved, which is now borne by PLK in connection with this legal form, and this is about PLN 2 billion, should be a means of maintaining the local railway lines and increasing their parameters. Minister, please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The drivers are an integral part of rail transport. Rail transport is one of the pillars of all logistics solutions in both passenger and freight transport. Most of these drivers are 50 years old and older. Minister, tell me what steps you are planning or are going to take in a rather rapid manner to make the process of encouraging everyone to do so more attractive. 'Cause without the drivers, trains aren't gonna ride. If you do not have any proposals at this moment, they will appear or are already ready, I would also ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u328	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Act assume, among other things, that the President of the Railway Transport Office, and precisely the Center for Examination and Monitoring of Engineers, is to be responsible for the examination of past drivers. For railway traffic in Poland to work well, the average annual exam should pass 1287 candidates for drivers. On average, we have 252 working days per year, which translates into six people per day who have to pass the exam. Will the efficiency of the examination centre be high enough to meet such criteria, which then translate into the number of drivers necessary for the proper functioning of rail transport? Why the cost of creating such a center to be 37 million PLN? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What affects such a high amount? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The data we obtained in the documentation shows that today around 1,000 are missing from the railway market. Drivers. At the same time, the government is intensively modernising, replaying new lines, and recently the local governments of voivodships have joined in this process, which recreate railway lines. Poles want to travel by rail more and more. This is pre-pandemic data. So all indications are that we're going to need more and more drivers. Therefore, my question, Minister: How does the Minister foresee that, after the changes made, how many new drivers will we be able to train each year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An announcement first. A committee meeting will be held in room 111 in building U immediately after the resolution of the bill in the plenary room. And now the question, precisely because of the lack of drivers. It is often the case that carriers employ drivers not only as part of a contract of employment but also as part of other forms of employment. This causes drivers to work often in a dimension that escapes control, which is why the act on the working time of drivers is so important. They can be tired, they can cause dangerous situations. Minister, when will the bill enter the Sejm? The project is ready. Time Act (Bell) of the driver's work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, parliamentary club of the Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! My presence here today is simply a matter of desperation. To be honest, I'm taking advantage of the opportunity because I've been treated in the past not as I imagined, because neither my interpellation nor my speech in plenary has brought anything. I'm not saying you're directly responsible for this, but it's about PKP Intercity. Please pass this on to the right people. I'm just inviting the people who are responsible to get on a night train from time to time and go 12 hours without a chance for a crossbow, for a sleeping compartment, because it's really drama. If someone is going from Warsaw to Zakopane, they can go just as I said, even in the compartment, it is also nice and comfortable. When he goes to Szklarska Poręba - I regret to say this, but the Jeleniogórska Basin is really badly treated (the bell), even pendolino has been thrown out - when it goes there, unfortunately it must go 12 hours, with full light, in a hard chair. Note bene - I will finish only, Mr. Marshal - even a very popular radio station RMF FM 2 days ago talked about how very people travelling in our country complain about PKP Intercity trains, because there are very hard seats, it is hard to drive. I really encourage you to take such a 12-hour night trip. Please tell the people who are responsible for this, so they can finally clean it up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u337	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the provisions that were not included in the bill - in a law that directly affects the drivers. All we have is a change that concerns the examination. This should also be followed by changes in training and health requirements. It is precisely the latter I would like to ask about, because in 2010 in Poland it was decided that in regulations on driver's licences, but also on health requirements, medical, psychological tests, assessment of the physical and mental capacity of persons who apply for a driver's certificate, or those who want to keep it valid, the requirements on vision and hearing organs will be more stringent than those laid down in the EU directive. And here's the question: Why didn't you want to ease these rules - of course, while maintaining an adequate level of security - and are you even planning (the bell), considering such changes in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u339	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The draft law provides for the creation of a national register of drivers, which requires carriers to submit to the Railway Transport Office a number of additional data concerning workers and workers. This means increasing the costs of carriers which operate in a very difficult market and are financed to a large extent by local authorities. Minister, at least 2,000 are missing in Poland. Drivers. When are you going to do the improvement of working conditions, the salary increase, the acceleration of the train driver's course and thus the increase in the number of drivers? Last year we had 85 events and accidents on the tracks. Until we improve the working conditions on the railroad, safety will not increase. Why is the proposed regulation lacking information on the costs incurred by carriers and local authorities? How does the Ministry of Infrastructure intend to support them? How do you plan to (the bell)... Why does the proposed regulation lack information about the costs they will incur? Narrow-track lines will also be loaded. Does the Ministry provide financial support for them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm addressing you today because the answers I get for the interpellation, let's say, are missing the questions that are being asked. I asked a specific question related to the project "Rail+" regarding the merger of Konin-Turk, asking to rationalise this merger. It is about extending this route to Kalisz or to Łódź. As a final result, I get an answer to the interpellation, which discusses generally the assumptions of the "Kilej+" programme and does not answer questions. So I want to repeat these questions from this speaker and ask the Minister not to evade the answer. For appreciating the rail+ and appreciating the Konin-Turk line, I would like to point out that it is completely irrational and uneconomical if it does not [[♪ The bell ♪]] Connections to Kalisz or Łódź. The question is therefore: Does the Ministry plan to rationalise this project and extend this section from Turku to Kalisz or Łódź? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wouldn't be a West Pomeranian Member if I hadn't claimed railway lines in the former Szczecin Voivodeship. One at a time, Minister. Line 351 Poznan - Szczecin. What's happening on this line? Why is everything dragging in there? I know you've had problems with your subcontractors or you're trying to take over the whole company that's doing it, but we keep saying, okay, it will be, it will be, and so far nothing's going on. I would like to get a written reply when we can expect the end of this investment. Second case, railway no 202, Szczecin - Gdansk. It is actually the backbone of two voivodships: Szczecin and Pomeranian. We've talked about this a few times before. Do you plan to build the second thread of this line over the whole length, from Szczecin to Gdańsk? Third case, railway no. 402, i.e. bypass Goleniów - Kołobrzeg, which allows you to reach Gdansk when something happens on the line Szczecin - Gdansk. We've been talking about this for so long, and there's still no answers. What about that line? Is it planned to upgrade it? And my horse, the 407, the Pomeranian Stone, stripped of it by our friends from the East. All the time, I'd like her to finally be included in the program. Can you expect that next year this line will be added to the program Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u344	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Security is one of the most important things, if not the most important. The rested driver and rested driver clearly guarantee this safety and raise its level. That is why it is so important to ask when the working time of the drivers will be regulated. This was discussed in detail and asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. The age of the train drivers, the health of the train drivers are very important matters. Programmes are needed to promote this profession and any regulations that will make it attractive and young people want to go there. Many centres are to be established in Poland. I would like to know - because the costs in question, 37 million, are quite high - what will be the unit cost such exams for drivers (the bell), given that the examiners will still undergo training and courses. How many examiners do we have right now, and how many will there be? What will be the cost of these centres in the future, in the following years of their activities in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For years, certainly since the interwar period, the railroad profession has been a prestigious and highly regarded profession, and today rail transport certainly has a future and we should promote this type of transport. In addition to upgraded routes and new rolling stock However, we need a well-qualified staff. The state test for drivers is certainly a step in the right direction, but by the way I would like to ask how many drivers we have in Poland, how many vacancies, how many drivers have pension rights, what is the average age of the driver, how many drivers we have over 50 years of age, what their earnings are. I would also like to ask what the cooperation of the Ministry with local governments is like to create special classes. There used to be industry schools. At the moment, there are classes in some cities. just about the railway profile, which can be prepared, among others. the driver's bell. What are the protective benefits for drivers? It goes on, among other things. about what was so often raised today, about reducing the number of working hours of the driver. I would very much ask you to answer these questions in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This bill, of course, goes in the right direction, because the safety of passengers, the safety of passengers travelling by trains is, should be the most important thing for us, especially as these trains are increasing speed. I actually have two questions... I think it's a good idea for institutions that train not to have the authority to test at the same time. Okay, if someone on the outside evaluates some of the driver's capabilities. I'm going back to my questions. We know there are no drivers today. How does it look geographically in Poland? Does this apply to the whole of Poland or to the richer voivodships? Perhaps a solution will be to return to the railway technicians that were once present, especially since the drivers are (the bell) at a fairly specific age. And one last thing: What will be the cost of the exam, and who will bear it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u350	Thank you very much for your questions. We move on to the answers I will ask the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank you for the extremely interesting debate on this issue and for your support for this initiative, because for the Government of Law and Justice - but I have the impression that for the whole or practically the whole House - actions related to the improvement of railway safety are extremely important. Thank you for that. That's what I'm happy for. I think we have a common goal here, and this is the best possible railway system. Indirectly, these are the answers to some of the questions. This is supported by the implementation of many government programmes for the modernisation of infrastructure and the purchase of rolling stock. I'm not gonna give you a detailed reference because we could spend a few hours here, and I'm sure the marshal would have chased me out after 15 minutes. The "Rail+' programme was often mentioned. I wanted to draw attention to all of you here who are talking about it and tell them to read it. Then we'd all know that now there's a stage where the ball is on the side of self-government. The applicant's own government is currently operating, carrying out the projects as it sees fit and as the best knowledge suggests, of course in cooperation with the railway infrastructure manager. This is a full synergy and I, frankly, have no intention of improving self-government. That's also the answer to some questions. With regard to substance, this law aims to create conditions for the examination of train drivers in such a way that the level of examination is identical for all taking the exam and to create the best conditions for railway safety. This is the first step, the next steps are set out in regulations, about training and about health we have information in regulations. And, of course, with full caution, but we will consistently carry out this project so that access to the profession is better, that more people will want to work in it, because it is a very good profession, and to create encouraging conditions, and these conditions are high-quality rolling stock and high-end infrastructure, because it attracts young people to this profession. When we look at the pyramid of the age of train drivers, we can clearly see that the railway sector is rebuilding. On the basis of this statistics, such a conclusion can also be drawn after collapse, after the winding up of railway lines, after the dismantling of the rail transport system and thus not entering a profession that did not have a future. You can see that the future in this profession is already there, and that's why there are people in this profession, and this structure is definitely going to be improving. This is not only served by this law, because it concerns only a certain section of reality, but also cooperation with carriers, their cooperation with education, with schools of different type and format in places where railway traditions are rich, but also in those new ones where the need is born. You asked about the cost of the exam. License - 100 zł, certificate - 100 zł, practical exam - 300 zł, simulator - 200 zł, total approx. 700 The Centre's costs result from the fact that this is spread over 10 years. For 10 years 36 million PLN. I don't know if it's such a big sum, but it's definitely significant. The purchase of simulators, the organization of the system requires such expenditures, and these are expenditures calculated by the Railway Transport Office, implemented under the Operational Programme (Facilities and Environment), you certainly know that. As far as the working time of the drivers is concerned, we are working briefly on this project. Even in June there were very interesting workshops on records and I am sure that this law in the foreseeable future it will be held first at the permanent committee meeting and, after all the government procedures have been exhausted, to the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u352	Thank you very much, Minister. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Mariusz Trepka, because I know that you want to address a few points, Mr Trepka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u353	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the very substantive discussion on this bill. Some of the questions that were going beyond the bill. I think that the Minister and his team have recorded it somewhere, will take it personally, and will pay attention to the relevant institutions. So at the moment, I can only invite the infrastructure members to the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u354	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u355	Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment aims to introduce a State driving test to improve the safety of rail transport. At present, drivers, as the only professional group among those responsible for driving, are not covered by the State exam. The project was welcomed by railway professionals. However, it is reasonable to ask questions about the process of training future drivers. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. 1. Will the trainer training system be changed based on archaic methods and based solely on the number of hours of lectures and practices? 2. Is the resort working on systemic changes in the training of future drivers? 3. According to the UTK report for 2019 13% Signal ignoring events: the stand concerned trainers with an internship of less than 1 year, which represents only 1% all train drivers employed. How does the Ministry want to improve security in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u356	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 18 and 19 of the agenda: I would like to ask the President of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski to present documents from print No. 1245. Mr. Chairman, come in. Mr. Witold Kolodziejski, first. First, of course, with a speech, it's not about who's first, who's better. We simply ask Mr Witold. When I was at the National Radio and Television Council, I always waited for this moment to be adopted or rejected. At that time, there was a dilemma whether it would be accepted or not. It's probably gonna be a little smaller now. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u357	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, I'm waiting for this moment too. This is a very important moment in the calendar of the National Radio and Television Council, because the National Council reports annually on its activities. This is the 27th report of the National Council, which has already been submitted 27 times by the National Council. I have also submitted several times, therefore I know that, both in the case of the report and in the case of information, although it contains a lot of details and very important information, in my opinion, the discussion is generally addressed with questions from the Chamber, which concern very specific problems, not necessarily related to the report last year. Therefore, allow me to discuss these documents very briefly and I will simply wait for questions, because this will be a fundamental discussion. Thus, the national council consisting of: Witold Kołodziejski, Teresa Bochwic, Janusz Kawecki, Andrzej Sabatowski and Elżbieta Więcławska-Sauk began operations on 12 September 2016, i.e. the end of the term of office falls for the next year, i.e. 12 September 2022 As I said, this is the 27th report. Together with the report, the National Council provides information on the basic problems of radio and television. I add, of course, that this is information about radio and television problems in Poland. This document is an important complement to the report and is an important element of the task mentioned in the Act. This is also a complement to the task of cooperating with the President of the Council of Ministers in determining the orientations of the State's audiovisual policy. Both documents were unanimously adopted by the National Radio and Television Council. This is a project of 400 pages of reporting documents. As far as the report on the activities of the National Council is concerned, as I said, I always remind you, it is for the previous year, i.e. in this case for 2020. This information is about how the statutory tasks of the National Radio and Television Council, including the conduct of concession proceedings, subscription fees, the determination of their amount and distribution to public broadcasters of funds collected by the Polish Post and the control of the activities of broadcasters, are carried out. Of course, I always stress that this control is carried out only within the competences strictly defined in the Radio and Television Act. And the principle of freedom of speech is, of course, the primary principle underlined in the law and in the Constitution, so this control is an exception. It is about controlling situations that are exceptions to this principle. At the end of 2020 we had 325 radio concessions and 303 television concessions. The licensed radio programmes were distributed by 163 broadcasters, by 218 broadcasters. Of course, in most cases, when it comes to television programs, they are satellite or cable programs. In the information about the main problems of the market we describe the state of the audiovisual market in Poland. We also pay attention to the surrounding markets, namely the press, cinema, the Internet and the telecommunications sector. We have devoted a lot of information this time to online services containing audiovisual content from users, and this is because the Audiovisual Directive will soon, I hope, enter into force. This is the amendment, which includes. This morning it was still the subject of the cultural committee. She introduces regulations for VSP services, i.e. video sharing platforms, i.e. services whose main feature is to enable Internet users to transmit and share content to others and play it back. VOD services, i.e. video on demand, have been subject to such regulations before. It's like an extension to these services. These are e.g. YouTube-type services. As far as technical, technological issues are concerned, we are presenting concepts in accordance with the strategy of the National Radio and Television Council. With the change, the release of the 700 MHz band under 5G telecommunications services will be the refarming of frequencies, including the next year's refarming to release this 700 MHz band, so there will be a re-tuning of the multiplexes of terrestrial television. By the way, we're changing the broadcasting standard from DVB-T to DVB-T2, which means we're introducing a newer technology, a newer, more efficient compression system. This, in turn, will help us to improve the quality of terrestrial television. As a standard we will introduce HD TV, which will significantly improve its attractiveness. In addition, this will have a little impact on the stability of the market as there will not be a large increase in digital terrestrial television offer. It is at the expense of quality that this change will not occur. On the other hand, there are two more multiplexes, the fifth multiplex and the sixth multiplex, i.e. several programs will appear in the ground offer. Public television reports access to the development of one of these multiplexes and others. the introduction of 4K channel on terrestrial television, i.e. ultra-high resolution. As far as participation in legislative work is concerned, it mainly consisted of cooperation and co-creation of a law implementing the revision of the directive, which is being examined. We're following the national council's strategy. It is announced for the years 2017 and 2022. From the outset, we have been addressing issues such as market concentration, new technology, digital radio, digital television, like the OTT platform, so I think that many of these things are contained in the strategy itself, just reach out to them. It's developing DAB+, digital radiophony. Here the main motor is the Polish Radio, which increases the range of its radio multiplex. At the moment, public radio is making efforts to actually cover most, 100% the main communication routes. So that the radio, which is increasingly associated with the car, digital, will provide coverage of all the areas where most cars drive. This is also related to the strategy of Polish Radio, which introduced e.g. special program for drivers, radio drivers, which is very successful. It is a digital DAB++ radio on Internet platforms with a permanent information service on road situations, with interesting publicise for drivers, etc. New opportunities for digital radio are also being introduced. As far as DAB+ is concerned, competitions for local multiplexes and locations such as Częstochowa, Katowice, Poznań, Rzeszów, Tarnów, Toruń and Warsaw have been announced. Not everywhere did these multiplexes start because of the pandemic problem and the delayed technical preparation for the launch of multiplexes, and also with the problem of selecting a technical operator such a multiplex. There is a problem because there are up to 12 different broadcasters on such a multiplex, who have to communicate together to choose one technical sender. The same reference to the COVID, the situation of the COVID, is seen in the information about the dynamics we present. I've already told you about digital terrestrial television. Organizing content research media services is a very broad topic for which we can also talk for hours. All I'm going to say is that this is based on a provision of a law that ceds to a national council to organize research into the content of media reception. In December last year, the National Media Institute was set up, i.e. the agenda of the National Council, such a media GUS, which is to combine and collect all research from available sources, in terms of media research, also from its own panel, from its own RPD data warehouse, in order to be able to aggregate it, weigh properly, conduct initial research, etc. We cooperate very intensively with the market, especially at the moment with television broadcasters, but also with the advertising market. Good. I think that's it. As I understand it, there may be questions about financial issues, so maybe I'll talk about it in detail. Let me just say that thanks to revenues from subscription revenues and compensation calculated together, public media financed the cost of emissions in the following degrees. Television Poland is 64% emissions from public money, Polish Radio - 91% , regional radio companies - 95% emissions. Here you can see a much stronger dependence on the money of public companies of regional radio, and a relatively large part of the own influences in the Polish Television, which is a constant trend and should not be surprising. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll stop here because I can see the clock ticking irresistibly. I will not talk about our self-regulation and co-regulation initiatives. As far as co-regulation is concerned, there are no such rules, and as far as self-regulation is concerned, there are a number of initiatives such as good practices in the protection of minors, but there is agreement on rules for the dissemination of advertising and sponsoring indications. Here is an older self-regulation agreement on unhealthy food, an agreement on facilities for disabled people, dietary supplements, etc. They concern certain self-limiting markets for advertising, broadcasters and advertising, and I must say that these codes and initiatives work very well. Some of them were created as part of a round media table. We periodically control this and we can say that it is the most effective form of regulation. When the market itself is organized and regulated. Of course, this is in cooperation, under the patronage or under the influence of the national council. The National Council is the initiator every time and later the verifier of these codes. Mr. Marshal! I've got 57 seconds to go, so maybe... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Your marshal, I'm so sorry, I didn't notice. I've got 48 seconds to finish, so maybe I'll finish. I'll just be waiting for questions. [[All the more reason that we don't understand anything, you're muttering like that.]] Member. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: You should've told me before, so I would've said... [[Voice from the room: We didn't want to interrupt.]] Member. [[We're doing the best we can, but...]] Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: I see. I'm the one who can do anything. I'll say it again, Marshal. I'll talk slower. Masks... Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Okay, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't have the energy to report this. [[I can see that.]] I know that then the whole discussion goes on a little differently, but I wanted to present this report - it is my duty. You have a report, not the first time we have seen each other in this room, so that I felt a little that certain things (the bell) were unnecessary, but I filled out the time to the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u358	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, masks make it difficult for us to speak, especially longer. [[But I understand your marshal.]] Thank you very much, Member. I kindly ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to provide a justification for the draft resolution from print 1396.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 6 July 2021 examined the matter addressed to it in accordance with Article. Paragraph 125. Paragraph 4 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 2 June 2021 by the Marshal of the Sejm, the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2020 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2020, print No 1245. Mr Witold Kołodziejski presented a report for 2020 during the committee meeting. The committee then held a discussion focused mainly on the ownership structure of part of the private media, after which it was proposed to recommend to the High Sejm that the report be adopted by drawing up a draft resolution with the following wording: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopts the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2020. The Committee on Culture and Media, after the vote, 15 votes were in favour, 9 against, 1 abstention, adopted a proposal for a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u360	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the President of the National Media Council of Mr Krzysztof Czabański to present the information from print No. 1242. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u361	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for giving me the floor. You, like the Senate and the President, received information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. This information was adopted at the National Media Council on 9 March this year. It shall contain information on activities involving the powers of the National Media Council. It is mainly about shaping personal compositions of boards and supervisory boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency, expressing consent to the appointment of directors of field branches of TVP S.A., activities in the field of the appointment of program boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency, determining the minimum share of broadcasts created by field branches of TVP S.A. in national programmes, activities concerning changes in the statutes of public broadcasting companies and the Polish Press Agency S.A. In addition, the National Media Council has undertaken a number of ad hoc actions, whether in control or intervention. As far as last year is concerned, something absolutely new - it was new throughout the country - was a pandemic and the need to ensure continuity of the operation of public radio and television and the Polish Press Agency, in general public media. As we know, the threats were quite real and could mean in extreme cases silence in the ether or limiting the possibility of transmission by the Polish Press Agency. It was a daily activity that we have undertaken together with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the National Radio and Television Council to ensure the continuity of activities for the public media. It was our daily concern. Here are details of specific actions regarding this main sphere, i.e. the formation of personal compositions of companies' bodies. In general, decisions were made as a result of vacancies. This was not the case every time, but in almost all cases this was the mechanism - whether on the boards of individual media companies or on boards. You have here a list of all the decisions made together with a description of how the changes are to be made. In addition, in the information we provide data on the National Media Council itself and the costs of its activities. Everything's clear. All resolutions adopted by the National Media Council have been annexed to this information. If there are any questions or if there is a need for additions, of course I am serving you with answers today, and in case of more complex questions which I could not answer at the moment, I will give you an answer in writing. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. I kindly ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to provide a justification for the draft resolution from print 1397.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At its meeting on 6 July 2021, the Committee on Culture and Media considered its referral to it by the Marshal of the Sejm on 2 June 2021, in accordance with Article. Paragraph 125. Section 4 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020, print No 1242. Mr Krzysztof Czabański, President of the National Media Council, presented information on the activities of the Council for 2020. During the meeting, a discussion was held and a number of questions were addressed to the Chairman of the Council relating in general to the performance of tasks by the National Media Council and the activities of regional radio and television centres. Mr Krzysztof Czabański gave comprehensive answers and then proposed to recommend that the High Sejm accept the information. The draft resolution was also formulated with the following wording: The Parliament of the Republic of Poland adopts Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. The Committee on Culture and Media by vote - 14 votes in favour, 7 votes against - adopted a proposal for a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council for 2020, print No 1397. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u364	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Agnieszka Soin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u365	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2020 and on the fundamental problems of radio and television in 2020 together with the Commission's draft resolution, print No 1245 and 1396, and on the activities of the National Media Council for 2020, print No 1242 and 1397. During the reporting period, the National Media Council held 14 meetings. The Council adopted a work plan at its meeting on 8 January 2020. During the reporting period, the Board took up inter alia. issues related to repeated attacks of aggression against public media journalists and met with the Boards of Polish Television, Polish Radio, Polish Press Agency and Auditorium on the operation of companies during the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. During the reporting period, the Council adopted 33 resolutions on the formation of personal storage in public broadcasting companies and on the issue of the state of finances. The Council took its control powers under the Act on the Council of National Media and the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on the Polish Press Agency on an ongoing basis. The Management Boards of Public Radio and Television Companies shall periodically submit to the Council the documents set out in the Act which serve members of the Board to assess the activities of public radio and television companies' bodies and the State Press Agency SA. The work undertaken in 2020 by the National Radio and Television Council was carried out on the basis of the objectives adopted in the regulatory strategy for the period 2017-2022. The National Radio and Television Council and the orientations set in the task budget of the National Radio and Television Council, approved in the parliamentary procedure. The National Radio and Television Council participated, among others. in the legislative work concerning the introduction of digital radio and television in Poland, the establishment of programming and financial plans and payment cards for public broadcasters, the distribution of revenues from subscription and compensation, the organisation of researches on the content and reception of media services and the implementation of the Telemetry Poland project consisting of the launch of a single source measurement of electronic media consumption. It was important not only for the organisation, but also for the performance of public tasks that the founding body - President of the National Radio and Television Council - appointed the National Media Institute - was set up on 31 December 2020. To the state budget for the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, revenues of over PLN 35 million were distributed, for which among others. revenue from concession fees of more than PLN 27 million. In 2020, the President of the National Radio and Television Council issued more than 74 314 administrative decisions, including 74,090 subscription decisions. The National Radio and Television Council distributed 650 million subscription receipts and treasury securities with a nominal value of PLN 1 million, to carry out missionary tasks by public broadcasters. [[Voice from the room: Thousand.]] Yeah, 1950 grand. zł. The board received 33 450 applications from subscribers for subscription arrears. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the position expressed by the Committee on Culture and Media and welcomes the actions taken by the National Radio and Television Council as well as the National Media Council. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Council's report last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u366	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, asking for the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Judging from the energy levels of the two Presidents, the two institutions led by them entered the end stage. I'm not gonna say I'm really worried about it, but it's some kind of sign of time I think it's worth noticing. I will start presenting the position of the Civic Coalition club a bit in reverse, because it is actually much easier for us to tell what we think about the National Media Council and its activities, as this institution is certainly, without any doubt, an unnecessary institution and should indeed be abolished long ago. I ignore the fact that she shouldn't be called up, but if she is, she should be eliminated. And as what she does, she does it: she's a kind of HR office, she lists boards, she lists boards, she cancels. The main success of this National Media Council was at one time the dismissal of President Kurski, but then the appointment of President Kurski as an advisor, then the appointment again, the appeal again. That was the fun of it. But that was probably the year before, 2019, so not in this report. So that, as far as the National Media Council is concerned, we were not particularly impressed in this report or in Mr Czabański's speech. On the other hand, a slightly more serious story is with the National Radio and Television Council, because, of course, there are dozens of reasons why this report should not be adopted, but I will concentrate on one, probably essential. This is what last year - not this year, just last year - the station, the TVN media group applied for the renewal of the TVN24 channel concession, because the deadline expires in September this year. And for almost a year, the National Radio and Television Council failed to consider this proposal, did not address this subject, did not talk to the sender in any way until it led to such a situation when, as I understand the political reality in the group from which this National Radio and Television Council mainly originates, i.e. in Law and Justice, these realities made it politically recognised at the level of power that this concession cannot be renewed. And here we are right now witnessing an international scandal. It's not like you don't want to renew your license to some sender. This is, first of all, 20 years ago - such an anniversary treated TVN24, very... It's a very popular station, a very popular TV channel. If someone doesn't want to, they don't have to watch, they can watch TVP Info all the time, and they really don't have any punishment. But eliminating pluralism in the media in the information and publicity market is something that offends the fundamentals of democracy, the rule of law and democracy. This is why the lack of last year's decision, which resulted in this scandalous lack of decision and the danger that arises this year, is the reason why the report of the National Radio and Television Council should be rejected. And let me put it this way: in the Constitution, the National Radio and Television Council is upholding freedom of expression, the right to information and public interest in radio and television. I will say: he is defending the freedom of speech of haters and slanderers from TVP Info, defending the freedom of speech of liars from this government and taking care of private interest through public money and public companies of law and justice officers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u368	I invite Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, the Left Club, to announce the club's position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think I'll surprise anyone in this room if I say right away that the Left Parliamentary Club is critical of and the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, and the National Media Council, and the whole system that has built around these two institutions. Law and Justice. And that is why, Your Marshal, we will vote against both drafts of resolutions. The fact that you have something on your conscience indicates indirectly the design of our debate. Well, the two presidents were given the right to speak for 15 minutes. How and whether they have benefited from them is another matter and their right, while Members, especially Members of the opposition, have been prevented from fully speaking, limiting our role and our discussion to a joint debate. We've only been given the right to one five-minute speech. Therefore, I will allow myself, Mrs Marshal, to expect written answers from the Presidents in three groups of cases. One of them has already been called here. I will begin by congratulating the National Radio and Television Council for the smooth issue of the concession for the event station24. This was the case in the history of the National Council that the application was made in May and the concession was obtained in June. It is all the more surprising and astonishing - I will ask President Kołodziejski for a written explanation - the situation that happened with TVN24. This is something that Madam President Katarasińska has already discussed in detail, and I will not repeat it. What shocks and amazes them is the unequal treatment of these entities. I am pleased with the efficiency of one of the cases, but as far as the latter is concerned, I wanted to return - also as a former member of the National Radio and Television Council - to the members of the board attention to the fact that the concession process is not a beauty contest. It is necessary to know the reasons for granting or refusing to grant concessions, and dragging this process seems incomprehensible, even understandable and outrageous. The second request for information and the indirectly expressed critical assessment of the Left Club refers to the very short information contained in the report of the National Radiophony and Television Council on the presidential elections. The elections were difficult and complex, and we know that the pandemic had an enormous impact on it. But access to the media antenna should be of interest to the National Radio and Television Council and indeed it was, but in a rather specific view, which consisted in comparing only two main candidates, as it turned out afterwards. The participation and role of other candidates in the presidential election have in principle been ignored by silence. This concerns both Simon Hołowni, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, and the candidate of the Left Robert Biedron. I would like to ask for a broader justification for such omission and focus only on two candidates. The outcome of the presidential election does not justify this practice, because access to public media should have each candidate registered by the State Election Commission. This access should be equal, it should be fair. Thirdly, I would like to ask the President of the National Media Council to give a written analysis of the composition of the selected members of the Programme Councils. I am a member of the National Media Council, and I have failed to insist on a greater representation of other environments among those chosen by the National Media Council, so-called. social candidates. In principle, only candidates submitted by the bishops' curias, by the Polish Journalists' Association and by the trade union "Solidarity." You've basically left out completely different environments. I do not expect an answer to the question: Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like you to provide written information on the proportion among the 10 places provided for in each programme council of a given public medium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u370	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Rzepa with the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u371	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The coalition Poland will join its predecessors in the final evaluation of the report of the National Radio and Television Council and in particular information about the National Media Council. My previous speakers have already told me about chuckle dancing when it comes to concessions. I think there is no need to add anything, especially today's behaviour and today's vote in the national council clearly state what the approach to pluralism is. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you need a dictionary of foreign words, you don't know that concept. However, I will refer in the first part to the National Media Council, whose only task, as you know, is to appoint and remove the personal warehouses of public radio and television units and the Polish Press Agency. Taking this view into account, the National Media Council is directly responsible for the cast of these bodies and for the quality of these media. But speaking directly to the report, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know why the Council did not work in full for four months, what were the reasons for this state of affairs. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that on 10 December my previous speaker, Robert Kwiatkowski, Member of the Council was part of the Council. He was appointed by the President to replace Grzegorz Podżorny, who resigned and who was speaking directly, ladies and gentlemen - here I will quote his words - that gradually the principle of acting of the council became chaos and current party needs. You wrote in your report that you had gathered 14 times, but I counted only 12 Council meetings. To make it even more interesting, ladies and gentlemen, there was no sitting from 17 February to 24 July. And that's very interesting. For five months, the taxpayer paid for his readiness. To readiness, ladies and gentlemen. Later, somehow at the end of the year, it accelerated a little, because since October 15, there have been eight meetings. But you've worked very hard, you've made 33 resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no madness, and money flowed and flowed. Let's say some money. According to the Act, the members of the Board collect one-off average earnings, i.e. 5637.34 zł and the president one and a half times, that is close to 8.5 thousand. zł. How much did the National Media Council cost us? 1058,000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, what is the purpose of our discussion today? I would focus mainly on the fact that it is primarily about restoring the constitutional competence of the National Radio and Television Council. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution provides that the National Radio and Television Council is to uphold the freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. On the other hand, resulting from the article. 14 The constitution of freedom of the press and other social means of communication is a system principle and institutional guarantee. It requires the State to respect the autonomous nature of this sphere of social life. This order is closely linked to the application of the principle of a democratic state, which can function and develop only with the preservation of pluralism of views and the real possibility of presenting them in public space. On the other hand, the constitutional guarantee of the freedom of the social media is closely linked to individual guarantees of freedom of expression and the acquisition and dissemination of information provided by Article. 54 of this constitution. I therefore address the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS because you have learned, as I see it, to chant well in this House the word: the constitution. It is now time for its practical implementation. Let's vacate the facade of the National Media Council, save public money and restore the National Radio and Television Council to its proper seriousness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u372	Thank you, sir. The position of the Confederate Group will be presented by Michał Urbaniak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the National Media Council and the National Media Council! As in politics, we'll talk about actions here. To begin with, I would like to remind the National Media Council that it still has not seen to one issue, as of 2019. We talked about this last year. This is actually about our formation. The Confederation has not yet heard an apology from the Polish Television for its judgment, and, as far as I know, it should be your responsibility to ensure that such apologies are made. Basically, the National Media Council is crawling with media policy directed mainly from Woronicz and Nowogrodzka. An excellent example of this is the cast which took place in the previous year, i.e. on 21 May Jack Kurski's co-opting to the Management Board of TVP, 8 days later the appeal of another member of the Management Board because there were confusions, 7 August Jacek Kurski again president of TVP SA, but today we have only two people in the Management Board of TVP, and Jacek Kurski is of course still president. A very capable man. The question is whether it serves a good cause. Let us agree that the National Media Council is a political body in such a purest form, even if it is simply Members, so the legitimacy of this body is at least questionable. I should in principle appeal from this speaker to abolish the National Media Council, which has already been said by my previous speakers today. Instead of accepting your annual reports, because it's such an art for art... In fact, all these decisions could be made either on Novgorodska or on Voronicz. And now, going to the KRRiT, because I have very little time, I will focus on one thing, on the issue of finance. The state was crawling with decisions about embezzling public money, because the 1950 million zlotys that were distributed as compensation for the lack of subscription proceeds were money that went under the tax papers, right? So the institutions that got these tax papers, the local media and others. Polish Television, they have to liquidate them somehow, i.e. they will be sold at promotional prices, and then the Polish state will have to buy it anyway, so someone will earn extra on it. Question: "Who?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Three minutes is definitely not enough, so in a telegraph shortcut. In the report of the National Radio and Television Council, in my opinion, I welcome this, a position was taken recognising the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016, which explicitly refers to the restoration of the Board's competence to appoint and dismiss members of public media companies. But in the report, Mr President, there is no answer to the basic question why, for 17 months, members of the board are considering a request to extend the concession to broadcast TVN programmes. Couldn't you get together? Maybe it's better to get into one limo, go out into the bosom of nature and consider this conclusion for a maximum of three days? Here you, Mr President, do not care about the interests of the broadcasters or the public, but of the politicians. The concession procedure shall be suspended in an unauthorised manner. Former party colleagues should be encouraged not to suspend the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, and a document on the activities of the National Media Council, which is not information, but only a set of decisions, shall be submitted to the Sejm in a row. I take it with pain, Mr. President. So let us look at the handwriting of one of the members of the council of Julius Braun. This votum separatum shows that there is no cooperation between the members of the council elected by the majority of the parliament and those elected by the President. Until four months after Grzegorz Podżorny resigned, the council was part-time. The resignation of Grzegorz Podrórny justified the chaos and current party needs of the majority of the board: appointing members of public media bodies the President of the Council announced before the end of the vote at a special conference with the participation of the President and the Prime Minister. All requests submitted by the members of the board are rejected, and several times the request for cancellation of the current President of the Polish Radio has not been accepted. By the way, Mr President, you were president of the Polish Radio, your heart is not bleeding, what happens to this public medium? In the annual information again, not a word about the fact that the election of radio and television boards by the National Media Council is incompatible with the constitution. In December 2016, once again, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the National Radio and Television Council had such competence. And, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Krzysztof, this information is in her annual report and there is no such information in your report. But you finally admitted at the session of the Parliamentary Committee that you never once brought up this subject and this matter at the meeting led by your National Media Council. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will vote against the report of the National Radio and Television Council (Bell) and against the adoption of information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u376	Thank you, sir. Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President! In connection with the examination of the reports of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council for 2020, I would like to refer to the section on the publication of programmes for national and ethnic minorities. In this report, especially the National Radio and Television Council, we can read that programmes implemented for national and ethnic minorities from 11 Polish Radio regional stations are 1299 hours; I would say, average maybe also good. In 2020, 6 TV centres broadcast programmes for 143 hours. According to this statistics, even a little more than in previous years. But it's just, I'd say, documentation. The reality is slightly different and I would like to bring it closer to you, particularly to the Presidents. Often at the meetings of the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities - and I am a member and vice-president of this committee - minority representatives pointed to the deficit that exists in the use of public media by national and ethnic minorities. This applies to the quality and number of programmes, antenna times, whether these programmes are also broadcast in central media. We have repeated this many times, and there have often been representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, sometimes even Mr President, but the results are not very clear. You could say that there are indeed minority representatives talking to each other, and life goes on. Which is why we have this situation that the media aren't doing 100%. the mission to serve national and ethnic minorities? Ladies and gentlemen! These programmes have a poor assessment, and I think one of the reasons is that since 2017 there has been a shortage of representatives of national and ethnic minorities in the public media council. Mr Czabański, in 2017, when he presented information from the media council's activities, pointed out that there were indeed no members or minority representatives in this body and that the reason probably was an unfortunate article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a Act on Radio and Television, which sort of ceds this decision to the heads of the centres. Today, looking at the state of law, it is not the heads of the centers that decide this, but rather the National Media Council. Mr Czabanski knew that. Few of this, too, was the election of council members for a new term of office this year. I even took the liberty of sending a letter to the President that I had not received an answer to. Most importantly, my request as if it had not been fulfilled, because indeed the representatives of national minorities proposed their candidates for the council, while none of these candidates were accepted. The answer was short: the score was too low. I am simply sorry for the President, because it seems to me that, with good will, they could be accepted, even in this legal state. And as I heard, one of my previous speakers spoke about it - there was a place for representatives of various organizations. I regret that in these centres where programs are broadcast for national and ethnic minorities, their representatives did not get to the media council. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a new bill, amendment, with a group of Members. I was waiting, I thought something might come up earlier, but there isn't, so we've prepared this project, which will sort of oblige the National Media Council to take into account the candidates submitted by the social organizations of ethnic and ethnic minorities and who speak regional language when setting up programme councils. I hope this amendment will pass, although we have already had the first attempt at a minority committee meeting. It so happens that the majority of the members of the committee on the part of the ruling option, i.e. the Law and Justice, have practically rejected this proposal. The motivation was that this project should be examined in the Committee on Culture, but I think if there was a good opinion on the part of the presidents... I would also like to appeal to the Law and Justice, because this is nothing but the repair of a certain flute that has occurred, and it can cause that indeed the part of the mission that the public media carry out, in my opinion (the Bell) with the help of minority members can be better implemented. That is what I would like to call for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u378	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u379	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I took great note of the report of the National Radio and Television Council and the activities of the National Media Council. Unfortunately, I did not find an answer to the burning problems that plague public television. Hence my questions. How are you going to fight a breach and manipulation of public opinion, whose examples, both in content and in the form of transmission, provide us with daily news about TVP? How are you going to limit your hate speech on your television? How do you teach tolerance and respect for another man? How are you going to eliminate the current pathology of public television being the political tool of the ruling party of the PiS? How are you going to stand up for freedom of speech, which is what the constitution obliges you to do? And finally: How do you want to look in the mirror, knowing that passiveness and indifference (the Bell) mean co-ownership and consent to the spread of evil? For I do not accuse you of cynicism and consciously acting in accordance with the principle that the dark people will buy everything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u380	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President! Please answer the questions: How much did TVP Katowice receive in 2020? What was the percentage of the financial resources held by TV Polska? And I'm asking you to give me that information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u382	Thank you, sir. Another question, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Radio and Television Council's report on activities in 2020 and information on basic radio and television problems in 2020 as well as information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. Well, it's time. 18.50, there are six members of the PiS in the room. I wonder how in the case of such fantastic topics did you find those 21 Members who signed up for the actual liquidation of TVN24? This is a huge mystery to me. And then there's the second line. Dear Presidents, many wise words came from you today, very energetically speaking from this bleacher. But there was one thing: Why do you consider TVN24 (The Bell)'s application for a concession for 17 months? Thank you very much. I would very much ask for an answer today here, in this place, because it is interested in Poles, and for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u384	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. There isn't? [[I'm coming in.]] Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Protecting media pluralism and the interests of the public is the primary responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council. This is clear from the article. 213 of the Constitution, according to which the National Radio and Television Council upholds freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. Unfortunately, the National Radio and Television Council performs this obligation in a selective manner. The best example of this is the extension of the concession to TVN24. The National Radio and Television Council with its actions can lead to the liquidation of one of the three main information televisions in Poland. Isn't that what it is supposed to do to keep stalling the decision to extend the concession, to wait until the last day of the concession in force? Does the National Radio and Television Council intend to do its constitutional duties properly, or will it continue to run away from these duties? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u386	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I read the report of the National Radio and Television Council with interest. In general, it sounds like a weak joke. You write that TVP is a source of knowledge about the current social, economic and political situation in our country and in the world. Yes, it is a source, but content suitable for memes only. What a joke to the side. Hey, TVP for billions is no longer funny. You say there's pluralism in public media, and then you say there's an excessive concentration of media at stake. The rainbow you're trying to censor is such a threat? Is that how you justify taking over the Polish Press? Is that why you're raising your hand on TVN? Who are you trying to convince? You're building a matrix parody where only your ridiculous propaganda is to be displayed. But luckily it's the Poles and Poles who hold the pilot and don't give a shit. Long live the free media! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Long live freedom of speech! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u388	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! Mr President! High Izbo! I am aware that both the information we are dealing with today concerns 2020 but I would like to address this unexpected situation in spring this year. In April, the current President of Radio Łódź Dariusz Szewczyk was dismissed by the decision of the National Media Council. Dariusz Szewczyk has been running the radio since 2016, before being associated with this radio for many years, he worked there, among others. as technical director, he was also president in 2006 and 2010. The new head was Arkadiusz Paluszkiewicz, former Director of the Tax Chamber in Łódź, a lawyer by education, without experience working in the media. Similar rapid staff changes took place in Radio Szczecin. And here's the question: What is the approach of the National Media Council when it comes to human resources policy? Because from the perspective of attention to quality, the high level of the public broadcaster (the bell) also in the context of the stability of individual companies, this question seems reasonable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u390	Thank you, Member. I think it's a very valid question, too. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. There isn't? Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to what is happening around TVN24, I am still following the situation in Program 3 of Polish Radio with great concern. Since Kazik's hits, three's listening rates are falling all the time. Program 3 over the years was famous not only for good music, but also for excellent publicistry. Unfortunately, as can be read in the report of the National Radio and Television Council, the share of public broadcasts in 2020 was half as low as planned. Last month, information appeared in the media that Marek Niedźwiecki, accused of manipulating the results of the charts, withdraws his lawsuit against the Polish Radio, in which he demanded an apology and a transfer of 10,000. Zł Foundation Doctors to Doctors. That is why I would like to ask, because I did not get an answer at the committee meeting: Could the withdrawal of a lawsuit by a journalist (the bell) be related to his possible return to the Triune? Do you have any knowledge of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u392	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is significant that we are debating today in this House the activities of the National Media Council, a body which is unconstitutional and should be abolished long ago. Meanwhile, we continue to observe performances related to media activities, which are only by name. After all, former Ombudsman Adam Bodnar has repeatedly addressed questions concerning the cast of executive posts on TVP by the National Media Council, without the constitutional body of the National Radio and Television Council, but nothing has been done about it. Perhaps it is worth changing the name of the institution led by Krzysztof Czabański from the National Media Council to the Council of Pisowski Media? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u394	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! He will uphold freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. So the state should be guarding media pluralism, not putting your hand to the liquidation of one of the stations, TVNu, without prolonging the concession. Please state the reasons for this several months delay in the extension of the concession. We also have lex TVN ahead of us. I would like your opinion on this draft law. You should respond to lies, hatred that sniffs out from public media, prosecutions against opposition politicians, illegible messages, propaganda, and a sting at 2 million LGBT citizens. So? Nothing. You do not even react to the mobbing of employees reported by Katowice Television employees in letters to the National Radio and Television Council, the National Media Council, Minister of Gliński. Even the president of TVP is avoiding the subject reported by the employees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's ethics, gentlemen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u396	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the presidents! My question should actually be addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, because it concerns the implementation of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which requires the independence of media market authorities. This topic is widely addressed by the Foundation im. Stefan Batory. Art. 30 Directives require Member States to ensure the legal separation and functional independence of regulators from governments and other public or private bodies. Countries must also ensure that enforcement powers are adequate for the effective performance of their tasks. The date of application of the Directive expired in September. Poland has not implemented EU legislation and the National Radio and Television Council is highly politicized. Therefore, Poland is threatened by proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please refer to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u398	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Please answer my questions in writing, after obtaining full knowledge and information from the president of TVP Mr Kurski. How did the average employment increase... How has employment increased in the last 6 years on TVP Info? What is the cost of operating TVP Info for the last 6 years? In what civil law form are editors employed in TVP Info? What is the average salary of the editor? Please also specify minimum and maximum. What role does Mrs. Cucumber play on TVP? Is he a publisher, editor, publicist, journalist, advisor or otherwise? What's that? Finally, I would like to announce the total cost of the event organized in February in Łódź at the Grand Theatre and separately the cost of renting the Great Theatre for this event by TVP Info. The Great Theatre has been the organizer and venue of international festivals, ballet meetings, world premiere since its inception. On the boards of the Łódź theater were hosted by artists of the world format (The Bell), among others. Victoria, Fedora Barbieri, Nicolai Gedda, Renato Bruson, Hendricks, Bocelli, Cura, Kiri Te Kanawa. Thank you. I have a question. Unfortunately, in February this year, letting... Member, finish up. ...to the Grand Theatre of Weekend and Zenka Martyniuk, you've caused the Great Theatre to stop being great. Thank you, Member. Well, unfortunately, what times, what power, such a national bard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u400	Mr Rafał Grupiński, Citizens' Dinner. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Socrates said that no man is evil voluntarily, but you are in the case of both counsels of people who absolutely voluntarily allow that a huge amount of evil is poured out of the public media, from the media, which should keep all the principles enshrined in the laws and also in the constitution. For both of you, you're like those Bruegel blind people - you just don't see anything, you're like deaf people - you don't hear anything. People are insulted. Even after such tragic, dramatic experience as the murder of President Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz, after 1,700 attacks on him on public television during the preceding months, you could not respond to this simple human morality and stop this fall... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. ...public media, public television, you couldn't prove in any way that you had, if you didn't even have unpartisan hearts, at least some human conscience. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u402	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u403	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Passwords: Polish opposition against Poland, This is an attack on the Polish state - this is a description of demonstrations on one of the streets of Warsaw - these are just small examples of content that have recently been published on the TVP Info bar. Taking advantage of this opportunity today, I wanted to ask you both about the information we are discussing today, whether you have dealt with the transmission published on these stripes on one of the major public television programmes and what stripes they were. I would very much ask for this information in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u405	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is obvious that one of the pillars of democracy is free, independent of the government media, although the fact that Poland fell from 18th place to 64th position in the World Press Freedom Index shows that there is a lot of bad in this case. In its report on the rule of law concerning Poland in 2020, the European Commission raised reservations. These reservations concern the National Radio and Television Council, and this is about politicalising this board. There has been a threat to the independence of media pluralism resulting from the buy-out of Poland Press by Orlen or precisely because of the lack of concessions for TVN24. And I say this in the context that it was in February 2021 in Hungary that the regulator decided not to grant a concession to the last station, which was critical of power. That station that was critical is gone because the regulator decided so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, what I'm saying is that we're not gonna allow this kind of... Thank you. ...the Hungarian model you want to apply in Poland. I expect you, Mr. Chairman... I can't see, but... Thank you, sir. I expect from the National Radio and Television Council specific information on why TVN24 does not have a license. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u406	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u407	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Hate belts have become the main form of public television transmission. The return of Tusk - the return of aggression in politics. That's how Donald Tusk was greeted when he returned to politics. And, ladies and gentlemen, the chase has also become the main publicist form on public television. On 15 July, a fantastic debate took place with the participation of Svetlana Alexievich and Olga Tokarczuk at the National Music Forum in Wrocław. Okay, $1,000. people listened to it, watched an excellent debate of the Nobel Prize winners. Of course, public television did not broadcast this conversation. Public television ignored this, while TVN24, which at the moment replaced public television, was fulfilling its mission to society. Why in this situation are you so dramatic with the audience, with the public, wanting to eliminate TVN? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u408	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u409	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have fundamental questions about the role of the national council, because art. 214 of the Constitution states that the National Council of Radio and Television protects freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. In this connection, I would very much ask that the state of the national council share how they define freedom of expression, since their decisions are conducive to the propaganda machine and aggressive policy of taking over free media by government-appointed concessionaries, which destroys this freedom of speech. How do you define the right to information if you intend to close an important source of information with your decisions, what do you again support disgusting, dumb, government propaganda? Finally (the bell) how do you define the public interest, since you flatter the shallow interests of a narrow political group... Thank you very much. ...whose goal is to take over all the media in Poland and press on to the heads of citizens of this dull government propaganda? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u410	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u411	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! You were surprised this morning, Mr President, so I encourage you to open your report to p. 17. The National Radio and Television Council verified the original position regarding the possibility of interrupting the advertising of children's programmes. Having regard to the position expressed, inter alia, The Ombudsman may interrupt the advertising of a film which is a children's programme. You've taken the position of a child's attorney into account. That's very interesting. And have you considered the position of specialists, experts, educators, sociologists, child psychologists who alert that the child's mind is vulnerable to advertising messages? And did you even consult with Minister Czarnek, who announces that nothing harmful will affect the child's psyche anymore? This part of the report, as well as statements at committee meetings in recent days contrary to the Rule. The 6th Radio Act only defends the interests of broadcasters, not recipients, including children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why? And I will ask Mr Czabański: Are you not afraid that a pearl has been destroyed in the Polish Radio? The story was destroyed, the reporters were destroyed. Tomorrow in Gdansk they register the foundation. Mr. President, it's time. It's embarrassing for the public radio, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Club Left, last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! According to information from the National Council of Radiophony and Television, PLN 2600 million from subscription payments and treasury securities were allocated to finance the implementation of the public service mission. And so it's 65%. This mission was carried out by means of public television, 91% - in Polish Radio, in regional companies of Polish Radio - 95%. I wanted to ask how the National Radio and Television Council examines the implementation of this mission from funds that come from people paying subscriptions and from the state budget. Second line. Please state the reasons for the failure of the income plan for the amount of more than PLN 6.5 million, which was to be derived from the subscription fees. And the third line. What is the sum of the subscription bells today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u414	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would first like to ask the President of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski to answer the questions of the Members. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u415	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start by answering a few specific questions, because a lot of them weren't for me. And there were those that I couldn't answer, or where I was asked for an oral answer, and I'm gonna give them that. [[Written.]] About the oral and in writing part, so the oral will be now and the written part will be later. I'm not referring to Bruegel. In the end, I'm gonna talk about the TVN case. I understand that this is the most important thing that has emerged here, so I would like to refer to it, although I stress all the time that during the proceedings we do not comment on its content, so I will try to answer it in a slightly more general way. As far as national minorities and their participation in public media programmes are concerned, the report describes very well the number of hours, including the financial resources that have been transferred to them. As I understand it, the question was also about the participation of national minorities in the programming boards, but that is no longer a question for me, because the national council has not chosen programme councils for several years. Every minute I look, and I always get this TVN thing going. Independence of the regulator and revision of the EU Directive. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is being made at the moment. The culture committee is working on it right now. After all, there has already been a second reading in plenary. This is the amendment from which Poland is late in implementation. That's what's happening. This is the law that was discussed this morning in the Committee on Culture, which was discussed in plenary yesterday. Here the regulator's independence from the beginning in the Radio and Television Act is very strongly emphasized. This is one of the stronger positions when it comes to securing the national council against political influences in the European landscape - because there are few countries where the media regulatory authority would be a constitutional office, a constitutional body, and that is exactly what it is. That's not enough. We don't need a national council party until we're dismissed. Members shall not be dismissed and the appeal of the entire national council may take place only if the report is rejected by two chambers and confirmed by the President. This is really a very strong position for the members of the national council and the body itself. I had a chance to benefit from this once when the national council was operating in the environment of a completely different political majority, so that's what independence is all about. And here I have to say that our system guarantees such independence, and it's really not against me. As far as TVP Info costs are concerned, those costs that can be reported... We are of course analyzing the financial statements of the public broadcaster and such a summary of the sender also publishes on its website, so these costs are. Of course, there are no specific costs, which journalist earns, and I cannot provide you with such information either. So I'm going to go to that basic question that came up, including the slogans for the liquidation of TVN. This isn't about us, ladies and gentlemen, taking down TVN. On the one hand, we are talking about the concession process for the satellite-cable program, i.e. TVN24, and on the other hand it is a system problem, which largely affects the prolonged duration of consideration of this single concession, but also in a moment, because there is also the TVN7 case which is currently being dealt with in parallel by the National Radio and Television Council. It's not like the organ's 17 months late. The Act states that at the latest 12 months before the end of the concession, the consignor must submit an application for a concession for a 10-year renewal. Of course, the Authority had never dealt with such requests within that time limit, so this was the case for a maximum of 12 months before the end of the concession. In general, however, this is only the beginning of the process and such decisions take place a few months before the end of the concession, which obviously does not prove it... I do not want to explain to you that this is a completely standard procedure, because, of course, there is very little time at the moment, of which we are all aware, and it is not only you, but it is also very worrying us. And why is there such a delay? The first meetings on which we discussed the issue of concessions were in October last year, so that we really already have quite a lot of work behind us in the case of not only this concession, but also this broadcaster. As I said, I am not speaking on specific issues, so my statement is not in the nature of the arguments that are in favour of granting this particular concession or against it, but I can speak on general, systemic issues, especially as I have already signalled the problem that has arisen. And this problem is certainly the reason why this procedure is dragging on. I also think it is the reason for the amendment, the law amending the law on radiophony and television. Namely, the Act on Radio and Television has been in force since 1992. At the beginning, the recording of the article. 35. There were a lot of different security features in the bill, but there was an article. 35 said that the concession could be granted to a natural person with Polish citizenship and permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This record hasn't changed until today. Except for that mouth. 2 of this article said that foreign participation is acceptable, only that it cannot be greater than - then it was - 33%, right? With the accession of the European Union, this provision has been modified, because, of course, when joining the common market, where there is a community of trade and services, Poland has agreed to allow European actors - not only the Union, but the whole European Economic Area - to participate also in the media market in Poland. And that's why they put their mouths in. 3 which allows European actors. This was done in a manner which could be considered unfortunate, a way which states that the concession may also be granted to a subsidiary or to a person within the meaning of k.s.h., from a foreign person whose registered office or permanent residence is in an EEA Member State without the application of the restrictions contained in paragraph 1. 2. Restrictions on paragraph 1. 2 concerns a maximum share of 49% this is the majority on the supervisory board, this is the majority for Polish representatives on the board, etc. And this, ladies and gentlemen, was a limitation which, as in 2004 - the minutes of the meeting of the Sejm Committee show this, many of you were also taking part in these meetings - was to open the media market for European companies and businesses while liberalising, i.e. increasing this threshold from 33% to 49% for foreign companies, i.e. those outside the EEA. Such records were used and such interpretation of these records was required by the regulator during all these years by different terms of the national council, e.g. where TVN sp. z o.o. transformed into TVN SA, e.g. in a situation where Rupert Murdoch, or News Corporation, used to enter Poland in 2007, buying shares in Puls Television. The awareness of these restrictions was indisputable, i.e. no one exceeded this 49% threshold And that's what they've been paying attention to. Not much, then TVN itself included certain limitations and safeguards in its statutes in the form of 49%. Notabene these records are still today. Until today, the articles of association have not changed in these points. And here in 2015, and so relatively recently, was the decision, was the process of the purchase of the company by European investors indirectly related to American investors, i.e. the purchase by Scribps Networks, in which the whole procedure suddenly started to sluggish. Interpretations are no longer clear. Of course, we can say that the bill is sloppy, one can say about some nonchalance - it is not an accusation against my predecessors - in the approach to the application of law or certain requirements by the then National Council of Radiophony and Television. I'm just saying this because maybe it would be a lot better for us if it were explained directly if this discussion had been held then. However, there was no formal decision, neither the position of the national council, the resolution of the national council or the decision of the chairman. Nothing to argue with, for example. in a judicial forum. Consequently, a practice has indeed been created. There were questions as to why now, why the national council suddenly became interested on TVN24, when other transactions were carried out. First, yes, they were, but now we have this much more complete knowledge. Secondly, on this market these capital transactions for the owner also continued. Thirdly, there was and is the announcement of a very large transaction related to such a huge merger on the US market, i.e. the merger AT&T and Discovery, excluding the Warner and Discovery media group from the telecommunications company. There's a whole package of land concessions in Warner, mostly American, like CNN. In Discovery there are ground and satellite concessions, also Polish such as TVN. Suddenly it turns out that Poland and the Polish regulator, but not only the Polish regulator, because also the competition authority, do not have access to these transactions. We began to examine whether this really should be the case. And that's what this is all about. When we read the provisions of the Act, art. 35 and Article 35 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the We, of course, have expertise. The sender presents his own. This may be an expert war, but I would suggest common sense, read this article and see how it really should be interpreted. You have experience, because you are the law. It was largely established by the state at the time. There's a problem with that. That's not why it takes so long to get the bill. Probably, I say: probably, the bill is because it is a difficult problem to solve. It is really not easy to make a decision in such a situation. Hence, I was in favour of using a solution that would disable some controversial processes in order to lean on it calmly, but unfortunately time is chasing inexorably. What took you so long? Because the problem is serious, and our analysis shows that the problem is even more serious. We are trying to deal with this ourselves, but we would like to expect help from the state, that is, from the legislator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u416	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask you kindly to respond to Mr Krzysztof Czabański's Chairman of the National Media Council. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u417	Thank you, Marshal, for giving the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been various speeches here, also addressed to the National Media Council. Some were addressed together and to the National Council, and to the National Media Council. Mr Kołodziejski has already responded to some of them. I will answer this one at a time, although not according to rank, just as the questions were raised. There were issues that do not fit within this report, because they concern this year, such as Radio Łódź or Radio Szczecin, or concern internal radio affairs, as this question about Program 3 of Polish Radio and Marek Niedźwiecki, or pay in TVP Info, so I will skip it. He was curious about the program council. I do not know if there is a Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, who initiated this thread, also a Member who was asking for a place for representatives of national minorities. [[Voice from the room: We'll pass it on. He spoke on behalf of the club.]] I think we'd have to think about the programming boards at all, because if you have, for example. to the National Media Council claims for some decisions, then please take into account that 2/3 of the seats are filled by parliamentary clubs. In these 15-person programming boards, 10 seats are filled by parliamentary clubs, i.e. by states. Perhaps it would be necessary to reflect on how these programming councils should look and what their competences should be - because this has begun to change - and, depending on this, take appropriate decisions at legislative level. We, for the time being, when we made the decisions that had been made with regard to the programming boards, we were notaries on your proposals, we wrote them down, and when it came to this 1/3 of the seats, it decided to vote at the meeting. Often the choice was actually very difficult. If we want to protect certain groups or certain representatives, as in the case of the national minorities that you spoke about - it was once written in the Act and there was a place for minority representatives - then perhaps it would be necessary to return to this in the case of some regional public media stations, radio stations or television departments. Well, like I said, it would require the initiative of the Sejm. One question, directly asked by Mr Paszyk, was whether the National Media Council dealt with such a message. We don't do this, we don't have the authority or the money to monitor the programs. The National Radio and Television Council has surveillance, but we have not dealt with strip transmission separately. As the honourable Member has simply asked, I am simply replying: no, at the meeting of the National Media Council, this issue was not addressed. On the other hand, on the subject of the National Media Council - this is the last issue, your marshal, I am finishing - there is often a charge, not only today, but also in other situations, that we do not allow certain issues to be discussed, e.g. on the issue of management of Polish Radio. Well, that's not true. There is always a discussion on the agenda. This discussion consists not only in voting on the agenda but also in putting forward arguments on why a point is to be introduced. Indeed, Mr Braun has been asked several times to introduce a point concerning the management of Polish Radio. This was broadly justified, but this justification was not supported by the vote. So it is hard to say that this case was not discussed. I wanted to add this to the previous threads as an explanation. Thank you very much to the House. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u418	Thank you very much, Mr President. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2019, during the parliamentary elections, the Ombudsman asked, inter alia, whether the State Election Commission had received complaints about the way public broadcasters presented their election campaign in the elections to the Sejm and the Senate. During the recent Presidential elections, according to the KRRiT, 15 complaints were received on how to present the election campaign in public media. I ask you to answer the question: How many complaints have been affected by TVP and TVP Info regarding how information is presented during the presidential campaign? How have these complaints been dealt with? Were some of them justified? Can the National Council refer to the allegations of hat, lies and propaganda created by TVP?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u420	I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolutions. If I don't hear any objection... [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Objection.]] ...I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Objection.]] There's an objection. We will settle this issue in the voting block against opposition. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure (Print No 1344). I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Katarzyna Frydrych, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u421	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a government bill amending the law - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, print No. 1344. The proposed law provides for solutions to improve and clarify the rules in the Civil Code on the institution of exploitation, the liability of adult tenants' children for the obligations of parents under the lease agreement, the interruption and suspension of the limitation period as a result of the initiation of mediation or the submission of a request for a settlement attempt. The draft also provides for the repeal of the Article. 159 Civil Code. As regards the institution involved in the course of the limitation period, we propose an amendment to the Article. 121 Civil Code. The proposed amendment will eliminate the practice for creditors to apply for a settlement attempt only in order to interrupt the limitation period. This will ensure that the procedural situation of the parties to the dispute is clarified and that the request for a settlement attempt is restored to the original appropriate objective of concluding the settlement, as is the case with requests for mediation proceedings. The effect of this amendment is also to amend the Article. 124 § 2 Civil Code by eliminating in this provision the reference to mediation. We are also designing a change in the scope of art. 183 In fact, these changes are intended to direct the parties towards a genuine settlement of conflicts and a settlement process. The draft also provides for the repeal of the Article. 159 Civil Code. We consider that the current content of this provision, excluding the form of a notarial act in situations where land is contributed as a contribution to an agricultural production cooperative, is not justified. Maintaining this exception does not find any reasonable justification, it seems pointless, and the repeal of this regulation in our assessment will contribute to ensuring the certainty of the trading of immovable property, which will take place under the same general principles, with the need to retain the form of a notarial act in such a situation. The draft provides for a revision of the article. 388 Civil Code. This is an article that refers to an institution of exploitation. The project provides for the addition of a fourth condition to the directory of indications relating to the lack of sufficient discernment. The lack of definitive discernment should be interpreted as a lack of knowledge necessary for responsible consideration of the purpose and effects of the conclusion of the proposed agreement. In the project we also grant the exploited party a choice of demand between reducing their benefits, increasing the provision due to it or cancelling the contract. It seems that since the good of this party has been affected by the defective conclusion of the contract, it should be her decision to continue to bind the agreement. Third amendment to Article 388 concerns the extension of the time limit for entitlement. The current two-year time limit for a court to request the formation of a legal relationship or the annulment of that agreement may be too short for it to be exploited In fact, it's a real possibility to report it. It is therefore proposed to extend that period so that it corresponds to the time limits laid down for the limitation of claims under Article. 118, which means that in the case of a contract concluded between traders, these requests will expire after 3 years, whereas in the case of contracts with the consumer, after 6 years. We also provide a presumption that, if the value of the benefit of one party exceeds at least twice the value of the mutual benefit, it is presumed that it exceeds it to a gross extent. In this way, we shift the burden of evidence to a professional entity. We believe that this entity is responsible for the sales technique, the preparation of the contractual model. Thus, the transfer of this burden of evidence is fully justified in a fair balance between the interests of the parties. We also propose that this provision be amended in substance, i.e. Article. 388 of the Civil Code was applied in a new version to contracts concluded after the date of entry into force of the Amending Act, which will allow all parties to prepare their legal relations accordingly, in particular as regards the examination of the level of discernment as to the appropriateness of the consequences of the conclusion of the contract or even the gross imbalance of benefits. We have also seen the need for legislative work on the regulation of the article. 688 with stamp 1 of the Civil Code. This involves seeking to ensure the protection of minors who are dependent on their parents by excluding their responsibility for payment of the rent and other charges due under the rental agreement. At present, this provision unfortunately has a different wording than the art standard. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6 Housing Cooperatives Act. There, under joint and several responsibility, a dependent adult shall be released. We want this to be equalized also in the case of rental contracts. Of course, this exemption will also apply to adult dependent tenants who are not yet able to support themselves. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please support the proposed project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u422	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Grzegorz Lorek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government bill amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure, print No 1344. The project concerns the introduction of solutions aimed at improving and clarifying the existing legislation in the Act - Civil Code on: interruption and suspension of limitation periods, the requirements of a notarial act for agricultural land intended to be part of an agricultural production cooperative, an institution for exploitation, the liability of adult tenants' children for the obligations of parents under a lease agreement. In the current state of law, both in the doctrine and in the case law of the general courts and in the Supreme Court, it should be considered dominant that the limitation period is interrupted as a result of inter alia. to submit a first request for a plea of settlement as an action taken before a court directly in order to investigate or establish or satisfy or safeguard it. On the other hand, there is controversy as to whether the same effect also applies further to the settlement or to the subsequent initiation of mediation. The proposed amendment will undoubtedly eliminate the practice for creditors to apply for a settlement attempt only in order to interrupt the limitation period, thereby reducing the number of cases affecting regional courts in this respect. It will also allow the procedural situation of the parties to the dispute to be clarified and will restore the request for a settlement attempt to its original proper purpose, namely the conclusion of a settlement, with a view to the legitimate interest of both the creditor and the debtor. With regard to out-of-court mediation proceedings, this change will undoubtedly increase the interest of this institution in the amicable settlement of disputes. This will enable the parties to focus their efforts on a genuine solution to conflicts and to reach an agreement by settlement. This solution seems to be optimal and in line with the expectations of both creditors and debtors, thus protecting the interests of both parties in the commitment relationship. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 159 The Civil Code excludes the requirement of a form of notarial act in situations where land contributed as a contribution to an agricultural production cooperative is to become the joint ownership of existing owners. The subject's literature draws attention to the low practical significance of this provision, as these situations in the current socio-economic realities are extremely rare, as are those in which the land is to become the property of the cooperative. This amendment will undoubtedly contribute to ensuring the certainty of the trading of immovable property, which will take place on a general basis, in the form of a notarial act, as set out in the provision of Article. 158 Civil Code. In the last decade, market practices have emerged in the legal field, involving contracts with similar effects to exploitation, but formally non-existent in the application of this institution. It is about encouraging older people, using marketing techniques, to acquire everyday moving goods at excessive prices. The sales techniques used make it difficult to offer prudently, which results in the conclusion of a sales contract under the influence of suggestions, without the need for consideration. There is also a problem with the so-called agreements. temporary loans granted by parabanking institutions to customers in situations - at least to a certain extent - forced. Another thing is the so-called practice. charges for securing loan contracts in which a low-value loan is secured by a transfer of property of several times higher value. There is also a phenomenon of the conclusion of franchise contracts which reserve disproportionately large benefits for franchisees and which are also concluded in a situation of incomplete knowledge of the franchisee of the actual value of the benefits offered in return by the franchisee. In these situations there are economic transfers resulting in extremely negative consequences for the exploited party, including execution and insolvency. Persons exploited because of other obstacles - the main financial but also health and educational information - are often unable to take advantage of their legal remedies. These phenomena must be assessed clearly negatively, not only for legal reasons - this is an unacceptable practice of using the weaker by the stronger - but also for social reasons. The reaction of the state to morally reprehensible practices should be as visible as possible. There is no doubt that the grounds (the bell) for the exploitation and the rights of the victim in such a situation are now set out far too narrowly. In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I strongly recommend the adoption of the above-mentioned Law and Justice. a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Codes are one of the most important elements of the current legal system after the Constitution. As a result, changes to the code rules should be highly prudent, since the codes constitute a set of rules which are, as it were, a basis for other solutions, a strong foundation for the legal system. Changes which take account of changing realities on the one hand and, on the other hand, lead to the elimination of provisions which in practice raise doubts often lead to different case law, which is always a difficult circumstance for the parties to participate in this procedure for fear of a decision which may be affected in the case in question. In this project we have changes regarding the effects of further requests for a settlement attempt. It is proposed that only the first request for a settlement trial should interrupt the limitation period. On the other hand, further requests to call for a settlement trial or to initiate mediation proceedings will result in suspension of the limitation period. The record proposed in this draft will have the effect of clearly regulating the effects of the first and subsequent requests for a settlement trial, but also contrary to the clearly emerging line of case law of the Supreme Court... It seems that the first call for a settlement trial will not be considered to be an abuse of procedural law, even if it is brought only to interrupt the limitation period without any intention to enter into a settlement or even to enter into settlements. The question therefore arises: Shouldn't there be an amendment to the limitation period after the first interruption of the limitation period, e.g. a shorter period, as indicated in the opinion of the Supreme Court. Substantial changes concern Article. 388 Civil Code, namely the issue of exploitation. In principle, four amendments to this project are proposed. Firstly, the definition of exploitation - as already pointed out by the Minister - is extended in relation to the lack of sufficient discernment. Secondly, there is a presumption that if the value of the benefit of one party exceeds the value of the mutual benefit twice, then we are talking about excess in a gross manner. Thirdly, the order of claims to be used is to be changed by sending the first cancellation of the contract to the plan. Finally, fourthly, the current deadline is to be converted into a limitation period, which will be longer than the deadline: 3 years for entrepreneurs and 6 years for consumers. With this solution, we must bear in mind, when setting longer deadlines, that setting too long deadlines may entail a risk of changing the value of benefits, including to the disadvantage of being exploited. Therefore, when setting these deadlines, when assessing these deadlines, we must also bear this in mind. The amendment will also apply to Article. 688 Finally, as I am running out of time, I would like to draw attention to one more point, namely during the proceedings before the committee or in plenary and during the discussion, we must also bear in mind the question of the relationship between the proposed changes to the content of the provisions already in force and the assessment... Thank you. ...these changes in the light of other existing provisions. This will need to be addressed during the procession process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u426	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. Please state your position as a club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u427	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the government draft law amending the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code, contained in print No. 1344. The main changes included in the submission are, above all, easier to challenge unfair contracts and more difficult interruption of the limitation period by the creditor. So much for the assumption. Following the introduction of an anti-crisis shield 3.0, the Ministry of Justice prepared a proposal for changes concerning, among others, the anti-Liquidity regulations. so-called. exploitation. This is a response to unfair market practices in the form of agreements with similar effects to exploitation effects but formally not in the scope currently applied in relation to this Article. 388 Civil Code. This is about all kinds of sale of pots, sheets or other household appliances with supposedly extraordinary parameters, while the only unique feature is the extremely high price. It is also a similar unfair practice to offer people under the so-called. a wall of relatively low loans at a high percentage on a pledge of much more valuable real estate or even an example of some franchise contracts, where the nature of mutual commitments deviates from balance like Jamaican runners. This is certainly an attempt to solve a legal problem and a rescue wheel for the victims of frauds. In situations such as those mentioned above, the weakness of the exploited party does not lie in its infirmity or inexperience as referred to in Article. 388 Civil Code, but lack of knowledge about the actual effects of the contract. Skillful presentation of a disadvantageous offer, calling on the addressee to believe that it is extremely attractive to believe that there is no need to verify before the contract is concluded, to use methods of manipulation, pressure, time pressure - all this makes it necessary to introduce such a provision. The project therefore provides for an extension of the grounds for exploitation to take advantage of the lack of sufficient discernment. Moreover, in the current legal situation, the party has 2 years to challenge the contract. This is the date of termination of any legitimate claim by the parties. Thanks to the proposed amendment in § 2 in Article. 388 of the Civil Code will be extended by one year and, where the party to the contract is a consumer - even four years. In addition, only a reduction or increase on the other side can be claimed at present. And only in cases where both would be excessively difficult can the contract be cancelled. Now it will depend on the injured party which of these three solutions will choose. Another important solution in the proposed proposal is the suspension of the limitation period for mediation and settlement talks. The proposed solution is based on the practice of the creditors of the institution to call for a settlement attempt, an institution which was practically intended to prevent the obligation from occurring. The solution proposed here is intended to eliminate this practice, the practice of creditors applying for a settlement attempt only in order to interrupt the limitation period. This is intended in theory to limit the number of cases affecting the regional courts. Question: "How effective?" In the event of a request for a settlement attempt and the initiation of mediation, the limitation period shall be suspended as appropriate for the duration of mediation or conciliation proceedings. However, a plea to settlement does not need to be specifically specified. It may seem that suspension is a good solution for both parties. It does not discourage the creditor from dealing amicably with the matter because it does not raise concerns about the expiry of the limitation period. However, this solution raises doubts because it still creates opportunities for abuse. In view of the above, I would like to say that the changes being treated seem to be expected and needed. Some of these changes... These changes affect the improvement of weaker actors, but at the same time we have some doubts about specific solutions. This submission requires amendments, it requires further work in the committee, so as a left club we will request that the project be sent to work in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u428	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to present our position towards the government draft law amending the law - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, contained in print No. 1344. With regard to this draft law, both concerns are raised by representatives of economic environments, business circles, as well as by the scientific world. As far as business environments are concerned, the position of the Enterprise Council is indeed negative. It is stated, among others. the fact that the proposed amendments to the rules relating to the institution of exploitation and the interruption of the limitation period are further regulations striking the interests of the creditor and weakening its position vis-à-vis the debtor. The introduction of new rules to touch on concluded contracts by using exploitation institutions can have far-reaching consequences for business and the certainty of business turnover. This seeks to undermine the principle of compliance with contracts and the principle that ignorance of the law cannot be a reason to evade the effects of the agreements concluded and their obligations. The project envisages, among others, to provide a condition of non-recognition, to facilitate the exercise of the right in the form of cancellation of the contract, to provide that, if the value of the benefit of one party exceeds the value of the benefit of the other party twice, it is presumed that it exceeds it to a gross extent, and to introduce a longer period than at present to exercise the rights of the party invoking exploitation. In the view of the Enterprise Council, unfortunately, all these provisions, as proposed in the draft law, must be assessed clearly negatively. It should also be considered worrying, in particular, to introduce an easy possibility of cancellation of the contract, which will create a field for abuse in all areas of economic relations and may help unfair counterparties avoid the execution of contracts concluded and the payment of debts. The opinion of Professor Pisulinski at the Jagiellonian University is also negative, which in turn points out that calling for a settlement trial de lege summer does not interrupt the limitation period at all and the rules should not go in the direction that would allow it. Unlike the mediation that both parties have to agree to, only one party is requested to make a settlement attempt. The other side may not appear in court at all. Ba, she can sue the court herself to determine that she is not obliged to fulfil the benefit. The request for a settlement test therefore does not lead to a dispute. Professor Pisulinski asks: Why, then, is the creditor's unilateral legal action to interrupt the limitation period? In his opinion, there is no reason to reward someone who, having the opportunity to bring an action or refer a case to mediation, does not do so, for example. often tactically makes an impossible proposal for a settlement. Please note that the creditor may propose such terms of settlement which no reasonable opponent will accept and will receive a bonus in the form of interrupting the limitation period and counting that period again. The Professor also points out that the rules quite generally define the content of the call, and therefore in one case the extended arguments and settlement proposals may be given, and in the other case the call will contain a very general statement of facts and a proposal for a settlement, and yet each of them will meet the conditions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a few of those critical remarks. Our support for the submitted project, as far as the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition is concerned, will also depend on the elimination of these shortcomings, which I have allowed to draw attention to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u430	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammar on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u431	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The submission, as has already been mentioned many times, concerns two basic areas. Firstly, unfair market behaviour based on efficient marketing, mostly addressed to the elderly. Wonderful products, fast and at the same time unfavorable loans. The common denominator of all these market behaviours is their high price and the fatal situation of the person involved. And that's a really important problem. This is a problem and moral, and social and legal, because the seniors treated in this way often - and very rightly - then ask for help from the state. As a response to this challenge, the authors propose to modify the famous article. 383 Civil Code, mostly famous for early law students. It is a kind of a nightmare in civil law exams that define the phenomenon of the so-called. exploitation. It is proposed to introduce an additional condition, i.e. lack of sufficient discernment, and to significantly extend the time to challenge the effects of the agreement. I am very glad, by the way, that in these matters the government listened to the voices of the Supreme Court experts and clarified the wording of this condition, because initially it was supposed to be a lack of discernment. For each lawyer, however, these two concepts weigh very much. A similar response to the needs of the practice is another element of the submission, namely the suspension of the limitation period for mediation or conciliation. This presentation is proclient and pro-consumer, and it is enjoyable. Very good that this law goes with the spirit of time. As you can see, civil law is also influenced by European law, which protects the so-called. The weaker side of the deal. We will look kindly at the work on this submission in committees and, of course, at the appropriate stage of the work to be tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u432	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u433	Thank you so much! Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the law on liability for paying the rent. In this provision, the amendment of the provision clarifies that those charges should not be charged to persons who are unable to sustain themselves. I wanted to ask you how it will be determined what kind of person it is because such a phrase can lead to abuse. In the case of housing cooperatives, where there are problems with the regulation of rents, this would mean very serious problems with obtaining charges for the use of even the media, but also other elements for which the cooperative is liable (the bell) also externally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u435	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to the justification of the bill in the section governing the effects of the interruption of the limitation period by calling for a settlement attempt, this is the correct direction of the amendment. I only have comments about the expiry date of the limitation period. The regulation, in my opinion, is too far-reaching. However, in the event of a request for a settlement trial, the limitation period should not be shorter than 6 months from the date on which the decision to terminate that trial was valid, provided that it was, of course, related to the actual investigation of the claim. Wouldn't that make the interests of all parties real? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u436	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! The exploitation, as we have said and I think we all agree, is a morally reprehensible phenomenon, and it is very good that we are trying to remedy this problem with this amendment. I would like to ask: How many cases about the so-called. exploitation is in Polish courts? Why did the Ministry of Justice and the government take care of this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u438	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There's no... Oh, she wrote it in writing, I'm sorry. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Regulation of the Art. 388 § 1 of the Civil Code poses a very high risk with regard to the treatment of civil contracts and those which are payers of welfare funds in which quick, interest-free loans may be taken. Why does the legislator presume the wrong will and guilt of the payer, failing to see the possibility of a speculative approach on the other side of the agreement? A fast cash-needing party may intentionally seemingly conclude a contract that is detrimental to itself, and within a period of 3 years, when its property is stabilised, undermine it, thereby putting the payer at risk of loss. I ask the Minister very kindly to respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u440	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice to answer the questions raised by Minister Katarzyna Frydrych. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to questions, I would like to point out that as regards the regulation that is designed in the revision of the article. 688 Another situation will be that, when a teenager has his own income, he will be able to work, he will be able to be jointly and severally responsible for these commitments. When it comes to the term - because the question came up, if I misunderstood, I am very sorry - this is the only term that is designed, except for the date of the amendment of the article. 388 Civil Code, that is the term 3 months in the article. 183 c.p.c. In the opinion of the designer, this is a sufficient deadline. As far as exploitation is concerned, statistical data shall be presented as follows. As regards matters relating to the claim under Article. In 2019, 26 such cases were received by all regional and district courts in total, in 2020 - 12 cases, in the first half of 2021 there were 9 such cases. I would like to point out that, in the view of the designer, as regards the amendment of this provision, it is precisely the addition of an indication of the lack of sufficient discernment that is likely to result in an increased impact of these cases. There has already been a statement in this House on what kind of cases this will be mostly about. It is about people who do not have discernment when they conclude all these contracts using unfair marketing techniques, for example. older people are urged to buy pots for a considerable amount of money. The introduction of this condition may, in our view, make it easier for these persons even to revoke this agreement, unless they demand a reduction in their entitlement. The last question also concerned Article. 388 § 1 of the Civil Code. The question was whether there was any concern about the abuse of this institution. I do not imagine that a professional entity, and as such should be regarded as providing and borrowing money, would not prepare an offer for its customers in such a way as to explain precisely to them the content of the contract, rights, obligations, obligations, payment deadlines, and that all these processes relating to the preparation of the offer and the presentation of the offer to the consumer would not be properly documented. It's not just about consumer protection. In doing so, in our view, professional actors - and they need to be required much, much more - will be able to prove to the court that there was no indication of lack of sufficient discernment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u442	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes the introduction of solutions aimed at improving and clarifying the concepts in the Civil Code, inter alia. as regards the institution of exploitation. The developers propose to extend the definition to a situation where exploitation is also made of the lack of discernment of the other party. Such a change is intended to allow for the definition of actions which have not yet been eligible. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project, this includes: the so-called. short-term loans, as well as franchise contracts, which reserve disproportionately large benefits from franchisees. The proposal also provides for the presumption that if the value of the benefit of one party exceeds twice the value of the mutual benefit, it exceeds it to a gross extent. 1. What extent of civil proceedings concerning exploitation according to the definition covered by the above mentioned above. Can we talk about the project for the past three years? 2. Isn't the resort concerned that the introduction of such an institution of exploitation could have far-reaching consequences for business and the certainty of economic turnover? For years, there have been views that ignorance of the law cannot be a reason for avoiding the effects of agreements and their obligations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u444	The issue of interrupting the limitation period in Polish law is the subject of Quite controversial. The submission of the request for a settlement sample was applied virtually 100% only for the purpose of interrupting the limitation period. After the amendment of the rules, the project still assumes the possibility of calling for a settlement test, but does not stop the course and suspends it. This will likely result in marginal settlement attempts because they will not benefit the plaintiff. After the amendment, no creditor will see the benefits of this form of settlement. What, then, is the objective of maintaining the possibility to apply for a settlement test if it does not bring tangible benefits to anyone but only takes the time of the judges? Isn't it better to eliminate that possibility at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u445	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Act - Civil Code and the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, contained in print No. 1344, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the terminology coherence of the legal system (print No 744). I kindly ask Mr Marcin Duszek to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the applicants, the draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system contained in printing 744. The project is the reaction of the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Sejm to petitions addressed to the Sejm by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the Committee on Petitions considered justified. The purpose of the Act is to amend 13 laws adjusting the terminology in them to the current legal situation. The introduction of these amendments will make it easier for the addressees of the amended acts to understand and apply them properly in the current normative environment. Some of the changes indicated by the petitioner have not been included in the proposed law, as they have already been introduced in the laws adopted by the Sejm. In the proposed law, we propose the following amendments. Art. 3 § 1 point 2 of the Law of 14 June 1960 - The Code of Administrative Procedure contains a reference to Section V of that Code, which was repealed with effect from 1 January 2004. Art. 1 the proposed law proposes the elimination of this reference to a non-existent division. Art. 2a The Law of 29 June 1963 on the Development of Ground Communities refers to the Act of 18 July 2001 - Water Law, repealed on 1 January 2018. Therefore, the proposed law is contained in Article. 2 proposal to update this reference accordingly. Art. 479 In Article 2, paragraph 2 is 2 of the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration refers to the municipality of the district of Warsaw. This provision does not take into account the changes introduced by the Act of 15 March 2002 on the system of the capital city of Warsaw, according to which the capital of the Republic of Poland capital city of Warsaw is a municipality having the status of a city on the rights of the county. Therefore, in the article. The 4th proposed law was proposed to amend it. According to the article. 18 of the Law of 20 May 1971 - Code of Offences, the catalogue of penalties is a closed catalogue and does not contain a ruling on punishment to be made public in a special way. On the other hand, the article. 28 § 1 of the Code of Offences contains a catalogue of criminal measures, among which the legislator mentioned in paragraph 5 the provision of a decision on punishment to the public in a special manner. Therefore, the current standard contained in Article. 31 § 2 of the Code of Offences contains incorrect terminology. The provision should be not about punishment, but about a criminal measure. Therefore, in the article. 5 of the proposed law was proposed to amend accordingly, eliminating the mentioned irregularity. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 point 2 of the Law of 6 July 1982 on Legal Counsels refers to a court which no longer exists in the Polish judicial system of the voivodship court. Therefore, in the article. Point 6 (1) of the draft law submitted was proposed to amend accordingly. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4b. 3 of the Law of 26 May 1982 - Law on the Law of Lawyer and in Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 6th Law of 6 July 1982 on Legal Counsels shall be exchanged between scientific and scientific and teaching staff. That concept exists in Article. 108 of the Law of 27 July 2015 - Law on Higher Education, but that Law expired on 1 October 2018. According to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Act - Law on Higher Education Academic teachers have become research and teaching workers and teachers who are academics have become research workers. Therefore, in the article. 6 point 2 of the proposed law and Article. The 7th draft law submitted was further proposed to amend accordingly. Art. 2 (2) Point 1 (2) of the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion contains a reference to the Law of 29 November 1990 which no longer applies. Therefore, the proposed law is contained in Article. 8 proposal to amend accordingly. It also appears necessary to amend the Act of 29 August 1997 - Bank law, in which Article. 112 is the term "voivodship court" in Warsaw, the economic court, whereas the term "Regional court" in Warsaw is the term "economic court." Therefore, in the article. 9 of the draft law submitted was proposed to amend accordingly. Art. 18 § 2 of the Act of 15 September 2000 - The Commercial Companies Code refers to Article. 585 of this bill. This is a wrong reference since that provision expired on 13 July 2011 pursuant to Article. 3 of the Law of 9 June 2011 amending the Law - Penal Code and certain other laws. Included in the article. 10 The proposal aims to remove a reference to a non-existent provision. Art. 2 (2) Point 2 (5) of the Law of 17 November 2006 on a system for the assessment of conformity of products intended for defence and State security purposes contains a reference to a non-binding law. Proposed Article. The 11th bill submitted contains a reference to the law currently in force. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, Art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and Article 5 Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 The Law of 4 September 2008 on the protection of shipping and seaports is referred to Article. 15 Law of 5 June 1998 on government administration in the voivodship. That law was repealed on 1 April 2009. The equivalent of the standard contained in Article. 15 of the 1998 Act is Art. 22 in the 2009 Act. For this reason, in Article. The 12 proposed draft law was proposed to amend accordingly. Current wording of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 of the Act of 2 April 2009 on Polish citizenship does not take into account the amendment made by the Act of 6 November 2008 on the amendment of the Act - Family and caring Code and certain other laws which replaced the institution with the annulment of the recognition of the fatherhood by establishing the inefficiencies of the recognition of the fatherhood. In fact, in the article. Paragraph 7 1 The said law provides that whenever the existing legislation refers to the recognition of a child, it must be understood to mean the recognition of fatherhood and, when it is referred to in the annulment of recognition, it must be understood to mean the determination of the failure of recognition, it is appropriate for the transparency of the law to ensure the consistency of terminology in such an important legal act. Therefore, it is included in the article. The 13th proposed law aims to give a new wording to this provision, which contains the current terminology. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system. Due to its nature and limited scope, the law will not have any economic impact, nor will it have any financial impact, including it will not affect public sector finances. Nor will it affect the property rights and obligations of traders or the rights and obligations of traders vis-à-vis public administrations, including micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. Therefore, I would ask the High House to support the bill submitted in print No 744. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u447	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. But I don't think there is. [[Voice from the Chamber: He wrote it in writing, submitted it to the minutes.]] Oh, I see. In that case, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u448	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system is the response of the Parliament's Committee on Petitions to petitions addressed to the Sejm, which the committee considered to be justified. As the drafters point out, the aim of the law is to make legislative and editorial amendments to 13 laws adapting terminology to the current legal situation. The analysis of the proposed amendments indicates that there are errors or errors in the laws to be amended as a result of amendments to other laws. Therefore, the introduction of these amendments will make it easier for the addressees of the amended acts to understand and apply them properly in the current normative environment. It should be stressed that the formulation of a separate law to remedy legislative and editorial errors and to adapt legal terminology to the current legal situation is correct and consistent with legislative technique. However, it is worth noting that if this law is passed, it will only be the second such act in our legal order. As indicated in the opinion sent by the Supreme Bar Council, the legislator also has other instruments to achieve the objective set by the projectors. However, as I pointed out earlier, such a formula is also acceptable. Opinions on the project were submitted by the aforementioned Supreme Bar Council, the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court, as well as the position of the Council of Ministers, which considered it reasonable to proceed on the bill submitted subject to the agreement set out in the position of observations. Other opinions did not raise any objections, except for the Supreme Bar Council, which, as I mentioned earlier, questioned the fact that the bill was the best instrument to eliminate errors or errors in such different laws. Finally, it is worth pointing out that the draft law will not have economic, financial and financial consequences due to its nature and limited scope, including its impact on public sector finances. As the Civic Coalition Club, we request that the project be directed to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u449	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Left Club will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u450	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm and the Senate have legislative power. The negative assessments of Poles and Poles about Parliament relate not only to the worse behaviours of politicians and the temperature of political conflict, but also to the quality of the laws and activities of the instrumentarium of the country implementing this law, these laws and laws in force. The CBOS study on the evaluation of the activities of public institutions and the media a year ago showed that the Court's work was positively assessed by 32% Poles, prosecutors' office - 31% and the Constitutional Court - 30% Subjects. That's less than every third Pole. But that's still better than when it comes to assessing Parliament's work. Positive opinions about work e.g. D.A.'s offices are more frequent than negative among PiS supporters, deeply religious people or the least educated. Contrary to appearances, the most recent statistics I have cited are disturbing, because the rule of law known in anthropology is that the more educated people are, the more they are subject to the law. It's based on the kangaroo idea of law. I would like to appeal this research by Prof. Jacek Karczewski from 2014. Among those who took part in the most common court proceedings, namely civil proceedings, the vast majority, because 67% , assessed the sentence as fair, 10% as fair in some respects, and only 14% Considered the sentence unfair. People who have entered into a dispute and met each other in court are therefore satisfied with the judgment, although theoretically at least half should be dissatisfied. Why, then, do you have a bad view of the state in which happy participants in proceedings are concerned? It is primarily about the continuity of proceedings, the notorious delays, costs and complex procedures, i.e. all that results from regulations that shape the legal environment. And clou: almost every Pole can give an example of bad law, inconsistent regulation, the need to be content with legal opinions, because the rules are unclear, inconsistent, mutually exclusive or, as the legislation in the pandemic has shown, incompatible with the constitution. All of this undermines the authority of the law and the state. A good law cannot be created if agreement procedures are omitted. If the rules are of low quality, they do not function properly, they must cause confusion and the need for interpretation. The draft law is the reaction of the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Parliament to a petition by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered to be legitimate. The representative of the public has decided to improve the terminology mess that Parliament has prepared. In 13 laws, he noted the need to adapt the terminology in them to the current legal situation. As regards the terminology for me and my former professional group, it would be appropriate to determine whether academic teachers are academics or research and teaching workers. The case of Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 15 September 2000 - The Commercial Companies Code shows that the Act refers to non-existent legislation, and in this case it has been happening for 10 years. The author of the project justifies that the essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system for citizens. Because in expert opinions there is an opinion that lawyers and courts are perfectly able to cope with this mess of terminology. However, let us say this very clearly at the end: the law is for citizens, all citizens regardless of their level of education, occupation, resources or place of residence and views. That's so-called. the statistical citizen is to consider the right to be consistent and clear and not to be lost in the thick of time limits and references to the repealed provisions. The authority of the law and the authority of the state depend on this. This is why the parliamentary club of the Left considers that the draft law which requires legislative and editorial refinement - in particular the updating of the legislators of the amended laws - deserves to be slanted with seriousness and to carry out sound legislative work on the project as well as on further projects appearing in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u451	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u452	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland, which I am pleased to represent in this debate, given the matter which concerns the project and the legitimate need for change, as well as a good practice of this House in the process of investigating projects coming from the Committee on Petitions, which receives reasonable suggestions from Polish citizens regarding changes in the law, is in favour of respecting these two elements and moving on to proceeding in committees over the content of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u453	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammar on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u454	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for accenting my name correctly. I'm touched. It's really very positive. High Izbo! We are very convinced by arguments such as improving coherence, improving the transparency of the law. These are arguments against which it is impossible to stand indifferently and which probably convince every lawyer and every person for whom the right and well-designed law is essential. However, I cannot resist the impression that this printing is not entirely correct from the legislative point of view. Because the principle that one amending law should change one law can, of course, be weakened, but only when there are many amended laws, there are undoubted thematic relationships between the majority. I find it hard to resist the impression that the existence of these undoubted thematic relationships is not sufficiently documented and not sufficiently structured. Such echoes also sound in the position of the government party in relation to this submission. Code of Administrative Procedure, Code of Civil Procedure, Code of Offences - these laws are amended and several or more other laws, of course in the right direction and in order to maintain consistency, transparency, but it would be much easier to publish the texts of uniform all these laws, not to collect them in one submission. I hope that someone will tell us why this method was adopted and why this method was used. However, of course, we will not oppose this project and we will continue to work on this project in the committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u455	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. First question by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u456	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just have one quick question. I appreciate the Senate initiative, because I think that this precision in regulations is an important thing. I would like to ask whether the government is planning a law that would actually cover the wider scope of the rules, because there are a lot of such rules that do not correspond to the actual ones. For the legal order, work would have to be done to adjust the sound accordingly. Is the government planning this kind of action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u457	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system leads to the following question: Is the application of such practices in the Polish Sejm appropriate? If the changes are minor or irrelevant, it is for the sake of legal order, in my opinion, that they should not be done at all or done as appropriate. Wholesale changes in laws by changing one word to another are not good parliamentary practice, especially when substitutions are referred to other laws. Such changes, in my opinion, may lead to a distortion of the original principles of the law. And since we are to set up an extraordinary committee for the cleaning up of the legal mess in recent years within the High House, isn't it worth recalling this project and leaving the matter (the bell) to the committee in question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u459	Thank you very much. There weren't many questions, but I understand that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice will answer them, Minister Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u460	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Council of Ministers welcomes the examination of the proposed bill, provided that we take account of some of the changes proposed by us. As a general remark. Namely, the purpose of the Act is to make some legislative and editorial corrections in 13 laws adapting terminology to the current state of affairs or aligning terminology in some cases if different laws differ. The introduction of these amendments will certainly make it easier for both law-makers and citizens themselves to understand the content of the legislation and to apply it properly in a normative environment. This law will have no economic impact, no financial impact and no impact on the public finance sector. We judge her positively as the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, these comments I have mentioned are necessary. Art, for example. The 13th project envisages equalising the time limits for recognition of the child and recognition of the fatherhood, in addition to the definition of failure to recognise. And here there may be doubts, because in 2009 the legislator replaced the institution with the idea of nullifying the recognition of the fatherhood by establishing the inefficiencies of the recognition of the fatherhood. And now we're equalizing these two concepts, but the question is, how does this apply to ongoing cases, i.e. to those which were initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed provisions. That is why we will be proposing an amendment here. In addition, in another place, in Article. 4 of the project, it is referred to the municipality forming part of the district of Warsaw. We propose to change this concept by the term "Capital City District of Warsaw." So that in those places where we have seen doubts, we will certainly propose amendments. And speaking of the question: we, as a government, as a resort of justice, always take into account the terminological inaccuracies, the problems resulting from this, some legal inconsistencies, and we always respond to this. However, the creation of such a law is, of course, very good, but, of course, the large production of legislation, also resulting from our membership of the European Union, requires an ongoing adaptation of the constantly changing terminology. We are living, ladies and gentlemen, in a rapidly changing reality, so it is natural that the law must respond to these changes. And this is nothing new, in other countries of the European Union, the same thing is happening. The law extends its activities, its application. Of course, it is possible to discuss and here experts often express different views about overproduction of the law, but let us remember that we are still dealing with technological development, with new problems, for example in the field of criminal law. Criminal activity and the ingenuity of criminals know no bounds, which is why we, as a resort of justice, respond to this. So it's not nothing. It's new and nothing bad. The law must go with development, with a changing reality. Thank you very much. We are positive about this project and we will propose amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u461	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand that the applicant's representative, Marcin Duszek, also reported I prefer to speak? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! From this point on, I would like to thank all the Members of the Committee on Petitions who, as members of the Committee on Petitions, have recognised the need for change and will work on this draft law. The Minister has already asked in principle to answer the questions of Members who have asked about, as they call it, distortions of the original principles of the Act and about wholesale changes. I think that, as the Minister mentioned, the law must go along with the development of a changing situation and that is also what our Committee on Petitions is also working towards. Thank you once again and I ask the High House to support the draft in print No 744. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u463	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u464	High Izbo! Today we are considering a bill coming from the Parliament's Committee on Petitions, which is a response to citizens' demands. The purpose of the Act is to make 13 minor amendments to the terminology used in it in line with the current legal situation. The formula for creating a separate law to remedy legislative and editorial errors and adapt legal terminology to the current legal situation is correct and consistent with legislative technique. As a Parliamentary Club, we agree with the position that the introduction of these amendments will make it easier for the addressees of the amended acts to understand and apply them properly in the current normative environment. The essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system. We are in favour of continuing to work on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u465	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system contained in print No 744 to the Legislative Commission for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 43 hours 20 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2020 (print No 1241) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 1274). I kindly ask the Chairman of the National Judicial Council of Mr. Paweł Styrna to present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u466	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The National Judicial Council is an independent and central state body whose functions are linked to the judicial authority. The powers of the National Judicial Council stem directly from the Constitution. And so with art. 179 of the Constitution shows that the National Judicial Council has exclusive competence to present proposals for the appointment of judges to the President of the Republic of Poland. And with art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. It follows from 2 of the Constitution that the Council also has the power to apply to the Constitutional Tribunal with a proposal on the compatibility with the Constitution of normative acts, in so far as they concern the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The specific competences of the Board are also laid down in Article. 3th Act on the National Judicial Council. The most important competences, which are most often carried out on an ongoing basis, most often at plenary meetings, include the examination of candidates submitted and the assessment of candidates to act as judges of the Supreme Court, administrative courts, common courts, the presentation to the President of applications for appointment of judges in these courts, the submission to the President of applications for the appointment of the examiners of the application for the posts of assistants, the opinion of draft normative acts, the adoption of resolutions on applications to the Constitutional Tribunal, and the supervision of the processing of personal data by the Supreme Judicial Authorities, such as the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court of State, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, appeals courts and military district courts, of course in proceedings conducted by those authorities. In carrying out these duties and prerogatives, the National Judicial Board held 16 plenary sessions in 2020 which lasted 59 days. 879 applications were identified to serve as judges. The Council adopted 912 resolutions on individual matters and presented proposals to the President of the Republic of Poland for the appointment of 489 persons to serve as judges in courts of various types and levels, including 293 women and 196 men. The teams of the National Judicial Council held 434 meetings, held 126 interviews with candidates. They also invited the President of the Court, the Head of the Department and the Visitor to the talks. The Council adopted 12 resolutions stating that there is no basis for visiting and illustrative activities, issued 66 opinions on draft normative acts and presented 9 positions on matters relating to the judiciary and judges. The National Judicial Council appealed to the Supreme Court against 13 unlawful judgments of the disciplinary courts of first instance. This calls for the Council to carry out 339 new competition proceedings in 2020, in which 348 free judicial posts were filled. It is worth noting that 1034 candidates took part in these competitions. The Council adopted 276 resolutions on the presentation to the President of proposals for the appointment of judges, including the nominations of 369 candidates were positive and 501 were negative. The Council also adopted 259 resolutions to terminate proceedings in connection with the withdrawal of applications for judicial positions by candidates. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The resolutions of the National Judicial Council are subject to appeal to the Supreme Court - the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. A total of 102 appeals against 68 resolutions of the National Judicial Council were received in 2020, including 89 appeals concerning the appointment to serve as judges. The other appeals concerned other issues, such as the transfer to rest, resolutions on the further occupation of a judge of age, enabling him to move to rest and resolutions on the appeal against the division of the action. In 2020, 75 draft normative acts were received by the National Judicial Council. As I said, the Council issued 66 opinions on these files. As regards the structure of these projects, this was as follows. It was 51 draft laws, including 13 government projects, 25 parliamentary projects, 12 senate projects and one civic bill. Opinions were also issued on 24 regulations, including 23 regulations addressed to the Council by the Minister of Justice and one draft regulation by the President of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Within the framework of the National Council of Courts, there are committees which prepare draft resolutions on matters which are subject to the competence of those committees. Thus, the Commission for Complaints, Requests and petitions, which investigates complaints relating to the activities of appeals courts, disciplinary actions, as well as the Chairman of the National Judicial Board, recognised 542 letters in 2020. The Commission for Visitation and Appreciation, which prepares draft resolutions on the conduct of the court's visits or organisational unit of the court, the magistrate's magistrate's vestment or vestibule, recognised 252 letters. The Committee on Professional Ethics of Judges and Assessors, preparing draft resolutions on a set of rules on Professional Ethics of Judges and Assessors, recognised in 2020. 62 writings. The National Judicial Council also operates a Commission on disciplinary liability of judges and court assessors. Its task is to examine disciplinary judgments, to submit proposals to the board for disciplinary action, to challenge disciplinary decisions. The Commission recognised 225 letters in 2020. Following the amendment of the Law on General Courts and the delegation of the National Council of Courts to supervise the processing of personal data by the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court in 2019 was established within the Board of the Commission for the supervision of the processing of personal data. In 2020, this committee considered reports from supervisors on the implementation of legal protection tasks. She has established cooperation with the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection concerning inter alia. the separation of competences between these authorities. It has developed a regulation on the detailed procedure of its work and the working procedures of the Council at plenary meetings on personal data breaches. There is also a Commission for judicial reform in the National Judicial Council. In 2020, she selected six teams that dealt with issues such as the selection model of judges, the judges of peace, the model of disciplinary action, the status of judge and the structure of the judiciary. In addition, the validity of the so-called. flattening the structure of the judiciary. The Council also had a library committee. This Commission was liquidated in May this year and no longer operates. In connection with the work of the committees operating within the National Judicial Council in the media area, there have been issues relating to the costs of the operation of the National Judicial Council. In a follow-up speech, the Supreme Audit Chamber indicated that expenditure on committees selected and functioning within the Council increased to 122 000 in 2020. zł. However, expenditure on the functioning of the Council, and in particular on the diet of the members of the Council, should be considered in a broader context. And I would like to draw your attention to the following: in 2019 3181 000 were spent on the diet of Council members. zł... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: 45 times more.]] ...and in 2020 2916 000 were spent on board members' allowances. zł. Thus, in 2020 spending on board members' allowances decreased by 265 000. zł. The expenditure was less than that. In general, I would like to say that in 2020 the Council saved 301 000. zł, this amount was not spent by the Council in 2020, with expenditure of 98.1%. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u467	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on Information on the Activities of the National Judicial Council in 2020, print No 1241. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 2 June 2021 for consultation. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2020 and held a discussion at its meeting on 17 June 2021. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u469	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2020, prints 1241 and 1274. The National Judicial Council - it is worth highlighting this in the Parliament's Chamber - is an extremely important constitutional body for the protection of judicial independence, independence of the court. This emphasis is particularly important because, in public space, opposition representatives often question this role of the current National Judicial Council. On the other hand, you are well aware that the provisions in respect of which the National Judicial Council is acting on the presumption of constitutionality have never been effectively challenged as regards their compliance with the basic law. On the contrary, it was the Constitutional Tribunal that resolved these doubts by ruling on matters relating to the election of judges, on the basis of current laws which are as compatible with the Constitution as possible. And indeed, as a lively constitution, you will not find a provision that defines how judges-members of the National Judicial Council can be elected. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the National Judicial Council, Judge Paul Styrn, very warmly for presenting the activities of the KRS in 2020 both at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as well as today in the High House, but above all in the committee, where the President was very much responsible for the questions asked. I think he also solved all the doubts about the last year's activity of the National Judicial Council, the activity at a particular time, when all the collegial authorities of the state had a pandemic problem. The Sejm was also looking for the best possible way to act during this difficult period. The same was true of the National Judicial Council. But according to the report, it is difficult to accuse her of any irregularities that could result in consequences - which, again, the opposition was very eager to raise and threaten. Today it turns out that there were virtually no irregularities. On the other hand, as regards the activities of the committee in the National Judicial Council in a remote system, there may have been too many such meetings in some cases, but there was a reaction from the headship of the National Judicial Council, the bureau, the chairman. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Ex.]] Appropriate resolutions have been adopted precisely so that committees can meet at the meetings of the National Courts. In a word, on behalf of my club, I welcome this report. Once again, thank you very much to the President and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u471	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm should not be concerned at all with the document which emerged from the so-called. KRS. 15 judges' seats in the KRS in 2018 were framed with a violation of the Constitution. This condition continues until today. This is a legal defect that undermines all the actions of the National Courts in which judges elected by politicians took part, not by the judicial community, as provided for in the Constitution. This epidemic of lawlessness, which has its origin in the National Court Register, is unfortunately spreading to the entire justice system. This neo-KRS is the source of darkness throughout the entire justice system, and it is the neo-KRS activity that results from all the problems that our country is experiencing today in the field of the rule of law. An example is the Disciplinary Chamber. The Court of Justice of the European Union stressed in its last week's ruling that the Disciplinary Chamber consists exclusively of judges selected by a politicised National Court which does not guarantee independence and independence. A similar ruling was delivered today by the European Court of Human Rights, noting that everyone has the right to a fair hearing by an independent and impartial court, and the Disciplinary Chamber is not such a court because it consists of judges recommended by the neo-KRS. In this way, there has been an infringement of the Article. 6 conventions. High Izbo! Both the European Court of Human Rights and the EU Court have thus reached the root of the problem. They confirmed what had previously been pointed out both in the resolution of the Joint Chambers of the Supreme Court and in the recent ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. NSA stressed that the KRS did not perform its functions. He stressed that the current KRS does not provide sufficient guarantees of independence from the legislative and executive authorities. In this atomic even for PiS the justification of the judgment reads: The principles and mode of creating the personal composition of the KRS were clearly motivated by the intention to subject it to a specific kind of supervision of the executive authority. The attitude of the council remains in clear opposition to the responsibilities and functions entrusted to it by the body. This can be seen in concrete examples. The National Court of Justice should uphold the independence of the judiciary. And where was the KRS when Judge Beata Moravec was persecuted under any excuse? Where was the KRS when Judge Tuley was - and still is - persecuted for passing judgment that just didn't like the current power? Where's the KRS when Judge Juszczyszyn is being persecuted? What actions she has taken neo-KRS to explain e.g. The heiter scandal at the Ministry of Justice, the victims of which were supposed to be judges who were supposed to protect the independence of the justice system? Today, European tribunals must protect the independence of Polish judges and the independence of Polish courts against the PiS state. And what did the neo-KRS members do at a time when they failed to fulfil their basic duties? Their pockets were filled with money for additional committee meetings. Let us add that many of these meetings took place remotely and lasted very briefly. In order to illustrate the scale of this pathology, it is enough to indicate the library commission. According to the media, more has been spent on diets for this committee's meetings than on the purchase of books. 16,000. zł spent on diets and the budget for books - 15 thousand. zł. People, does your greed know any boundaries? And what did the neo-KRS members do when this carnival of greed came out? After the explosion in the media, the scandals around the horror pay system were removed so-called. Mr Mazur, chairman of the KRS, but not because the scandal broke out, but because he was to refuse to continue draining KRS money. Ladies and gentlemen! The system, in quotes, milking KRS for cash is just one of the symbols of the mess that the current government has made in the Council. For some time, disturbing information has been coming about further promotions for relatives of persons, judges who have engaged in changes made by Ziobra. The KRS should be a sieve of bad, weak, politicized candidates, and in the PiS state it has become a grid that catches such candidates. A politicised KRS will need to be cleared, and therefore there will be no room for people illegally appointed by politicians. Therefore, there will be no place in it for people for whom the full salaries and additional allowances are more important than EUR 770 billion for Poland's development. Therefore, there will be no room for political contractors to expect a party of power. Therefore, the report submitted by the neo-KRS (The Bell) cannot be accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u473	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u474	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ex iniuria non oritur ius, from lawlessness there is no law born, said the Romans. The concept of the PiS state was not yet known. As recent years have shown, in a state of lawlessness and injustice, good change changes everything. In the Constitution of the Republic of Poland - so eager yesterday the state on the right side of the House chanted: the constitution, and just now you also quoted it - in the article. 186 we will read: The National Council of Courts is the guardian of the independence of the courts and independence of the judges. However, the neo-KRS is not an independent body and the judges appointed by it have not been appointed in a procedure free of political pressure and therefore do not give guarantees of independence. The European Court of Human Rights ruled today in Strasbourg. Although this judgment concerns the Disciplinary Chamber, it also disqualifies the neo-KRS as an independent body providing guarantees for an objective and impartial procedure for the selection of judges, disqualifies the KRS and its judicial nominations. We are here to discuss information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2020, but in the light of the above ruling of the Court, how are we to assess the activity of a work which, both the vocation and functioning of which are in serious conflict with the constitutional principle of citizens' right to an independent court, contrary to the principle of a rule of law and a democratic state? The fact that the neo-KRS is a nomination from an illegitimate bed has already been confirmed by a final judgment. In sin, the national judicial council produces the fruit of a poisoned tree, another questionable judicial nominations. Neo-KRS has become the key to the authoritarian power to take over the judiciary. But that's not all. These are the seven sins of the main National Judicial Council. Pride - because the lack of authority and work experience is not a disadvantage and does not prevent politically giving entry to the neo-Council to replace judges who have been illegally interrupted. Greed - a double diet for attending meetings and committees, mainly a remote, clever way to make up for a dozen to 23 thousand. zł; thus, spending on diets increased 45 times over the year. Impureness - the original sin of the illegal acquisition of control and politicization of the National Judicial Council by the current authority. Graciousness - functions, promotions, financial fructs, housing, functions and nepotism, profitable jobs for family members. Jealousy - to colleagues by profession, turned into obedient and institutional destruction by order of the disobedient. Anger - a custom-made hat is a basic tool of good change, insulting, destroying anyone who opposes the party line, is the institutional organization of hate speech by neo-KRS officers. Laziness and spiritual fatigue - it is a sin threatening us all, citizens and citizens, tired of the deformity of the Polish justice system and the destruction of the rule of law in our country. Although the neo-KRS is the key to power's taking over the judiciary, even there some members already have a reflection that the PiS governments will not last forever. There were factions on the white-red team of the neo-National Judicial Council. Zbigniew Ziobro is no longer a quarterback. Neo-rada continues to pursue the interests of power, but mainly because they rhyme with the interests of most of its members, so far. Meanwhile, the European Court of Human Rights still awaits complaints by judges Jan Grzy and Waldemar Żurek on the unlawful termination of their term of office at the National Courts Council. I'm gonna file a complaint with the judge of the Rings for the Grand Chamber. And the Constitution at the end. Have you heard of the most circumstantial resolution of the National Judicial Council? It belongs to the so-called. a pants resolution which interprets the principle of judicial ethics so that the presence in a T-shirt with the inscription "Constitution" has become a disciplinary delicacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u475	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u476	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, it is regrettable today to acknowledge once again that the debates on further information from the activities of the National Judicial Council will unfortunately be debates about the illegal, non-constitutional status of this once-constitutional body, which is crucial for the proper capacity to appoint judges, to watch over their activities. Once again, it's worth going back to square one. Today there are very often voices in public space that, after all, what this opposition is about is the moment of changes in the mode and functioning of the National Judicial Council, that, after all, in Germany and other countries also the advantage of the political factor or nomination by politicians appears in bodies corresponding to the National Courts. It is worth noting, I think, at the same time, that there would be nothing wrong with this if you introduced solutions to the German prayer or to other European countries, if you had done what art requires, changes to the Constitution and introduced appropriate solutions there. But you guys took a shortcut. Without a majority to change the constitution, you have made a statutory change to what requires constitutional changes. And today you are trying to confuse the public by saying that such solutions work elsewhere. Only that elsewhere it was formulated, these solutions were modeled in a manner that was consistent and demanding the appropriate procedure. In Poland - unfortunately not, so don't be surprised that many national and European institutions, given above all these circumstances, will point to the fact that the National Judicial Council is illegal. I think that many today are concerned about how and when the situation that is generated by the activities of the National Judicial Council will be organised. For, as the previous speaker pointed out, any subsequent appointment of a judge from the National Council of Courts unfortunately has a serious legal defect. Of course, I do not want in any way to recognise the powers of the judges who are appointed in this procedure. It is simply further opinions, subsequent verdicts that are taking place in this case and in Poland, and in the European institutions that monitor the rule of law and the proper functioning of justice, that are extremely precise. In a moment, this will be an extremely serious problem, which will concern legal trading in Poland, because every citizen who is not satisfied with the verdict that he will receive before the Polish court, while knowing that the judge who carried out this decision on behalf of the Republic of Poland has been appointed illegally, will have a simple way of referring to the illegal appointment of the judge, trying to touch the verdict that such a judge issued. Fear to be afraid of what this will bring about in the coming years and years. It is worth discussing today, on the occasion of this information, within this point, to be aware that the activities of the National Judicial Council in this area, in this issue, that this form of its activity, which has been taking place for several years, will unfortunately be working to disrupt the legal turnover in our country. It's already happening. The Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland absolutely cannot accept information from the activities of the National Judicial Council for 2020 in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u477	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The football team clearly lost the game, for example: 0:5, but the coach came to the conference, looked at the statistics and said: It's not bad, we fired twice as often. He was happy. This is the case with the report of the National Judicial Council and its chairman. There are a lot of numbers in the report, a lot of tables, but there are no relevant issues. The statement that the composition of the National Judicial Council chosen by politicians is in line with the constitution is, after all, a huge abuse. Although two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are cited in the information, these judgments were in the composition of the judges of the doubles, and the European Court of Human Rights found that the seat of a double in the composition of the tribunal infringes the right to a fair trial. The report does not explain why the functioning of the National Courts is being questioned in Europe. There is no reference to the fact that the Supreme Court has questioned the proper functioning of the Council. On 23 January 2020, the resolution of the three Supreme Court chambers was adopted. And you, Mr President, must know that judging judges appointed with the participation of the National Courts of Justice in a political formation may result in nullity of decisions. Nor is there a critical evaluation in the report. The muzzle bill. It's positive. It's outrageous. After all, the muzzle law radically tightened the disciplinary responsibility of judges and limited their independence. The KRS does not hear the opinions of the judicial community or the voices of the legal authorities. Already cited by other Members of the Art. 186 of the Constitution clearly defines what the National Judicial Council should deal with. It must uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Why aren't you and the KRS, Mr. President, protecting the independence of the judges? Why are you afraid to stand up for judges like Beata Morawiec, Pavel Juszczyszyn or Waldemar Żurek? Solidarity - one of the most beautiful words. Why don't you know that word? I mean, it's art. 186 of the Constitution requires this as well as professional solidarity, Judge. Did you write a letter to defend the oppressed, the dismissed judges? You don't say a word. KRS is silent. Silence in this case is not gold, it is a shame. The indiscretion denied solidarity. The KRS is a huge loser in 2020. What's worse, she scored her own suicide goals. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will vote against this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u479	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u480	Dear Marshal! Judge! High Izbo! In sin, the conception produces the fruit of a poisoned tree, or subsequent judicial nominations, which may be challenged. The year 2020 we are talking about is also a special year. Instead of upholding the independence of judges and independent courts, the National Judicial Council was on guard of high diets. The High House remembers the implementation of the budget for 2020 and the information regarding the budget of the National Court of Auditors, that the allowances you paid to yourself, which amounted to a great deal in terms of 2020, was a widespread, disgraceful process of taking money out of the National Court of Auditors, which in fact affected the budget of this institution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What actions, Mr President, have you taken to ensure that such pathologies, which have also been attended by Members of the Sejm, who have been elected to the KRS, Mr Mularczyk, Mr Kownacki... Finish your work, sir. ...weren't implemented next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u481	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u482	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Art. 186 of the Constitution tells us that the National Judicial Council protects the independence of courts and the independence of judges. Information on how this duty under the Constitution was implemented by the national council, we have heard here in many speeches. Suffice it to say that the work of the council has contributed to politicisation, has contributed to the fact that the justice system is uncertain. It is difficult to call doing what is enshrined in the Constitution. Another thing has also been noted: more than 45 times the increase compared to 2019 in diet expenditure. These meetings lasted several, several dozen minutes maximum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will no longer ask about legal issues, but I would like to ask the President whether it is not so embarrassing that instead of taking care of the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges, the majority of the board members... Finish your work, sir. ...a large group treated the national council as an opportunity to jump into public funds. Thank you very much. Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u483	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u484	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You are presenting information about the activities of the National Judicial Council as if nothing had ever happened, and yet you have destroyed an independent constitutional body. You needed the KRS to fill the courts of every level, including the illegal Disciplinar Chamber, with your loyal officers. You are destroying the independence of the courts, the independence of judges, so what protects millions of people living in Poland. You destroy everything that belongs to all Poles and Poles. You destroy and take advantage of everything you share. However, the judgments of the TSUE and the Supreme Court in the case of the KRS are clear: every day of the neo-KRS operation causes further unfair judgments in thousands of cases, that is, human harm. We will restore justice, but who will pay back the time you lost to the Poles? Because of your desire to make the courts stubborn, the National Plan for Reconstruction and billions of euros (the Bell) have been standing still for 3 months to rebuild the economy after the pandemic. Last sentence. If you don't turn your backs on stupid nationalism, you're gonna make us lose more EU funds. If you want to leave the Union, go ahead, but we, Poles and Poles, stay, and you can even fly into space. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u485	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u486	Mrs. Marshal! Judge! High Izbo! I am very surprised that your Marshal of the Sejm has decided to hear from the High House information from the activities of an institution which, according to European standards, according to the case law of the TSEU and the Supreme Court judgment, has no right to function. In the light of both the NSA's judgment and previous decisions, whether it is the Supreme Court or the TSUE, the current KRS should cease its activities. The current KRS does not guarantee independence from politicians - it results from the decisions of the NSA and the court. Therefore, the independence of the judges appointed with her must raise doubts about lawyers. Today's judgment of the European Court of Human Rights confirms this. Judge, are you not ashamed that in 2019 the diet was 3,000. PLN per person, and in 2020 an average of 120 thousand. Evil? Where are the two Members who have been elected by the Sejm as representatives to the KRS, who have deleted (the bell) 120,000 each. Evil? [[They're counting the money.]] Where are they today? They're ashamed to face the High House... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Counting money.]] ...and say, "Yes, we've deleted that kind of money, although it's so huge that we shouldn't delete it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u487	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I do not know if you remember, it has been mentioned briefly here today. It was called some time ago. The heiter scandal, which has been shadowed by many people connected with today's National Judicial Council, with the institution you're running. The political environment, which is certainly close to you, often repeats that the judicial environment must be cleansed of those who disgrace this profession. So in front of you the last few months to do that, that was the chance. Surely those who have participated in the hater affair deserve this motto that governs today. I would also like to ask, using this option, for a written answer to the question: What has the National Judicial Council done about those involved in the so-called. The hater scandal, which was intended to compromise one of the chiefs of the very important judicial associations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Nominated for the NSA.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u489	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Styrna to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u490	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In response to these issues that you have addressed here, I would like to say that practically everyone is referring to the same issues. Allow me to treat them collectively. Of course, I will try to respond as accurately as possible to the issues that you have raised. With regard to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which practically each of you quoted in your statement, I will not go back to history. I will refer to this latest ruling of 15 July 2021 and quote paragraph 103 of that ruling. In this judgment, in the justification of its ruling, the TSUE states: It is true that the tribunal has already ruled that an authority such as the National Council of the Courts, participating in the process of appointing judges, consists predominantly of members elected by the legislative authority. It cannot - and please note - this fact in itself leads to doubts as to the independence of the judges elected in this process. [[Not alone.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, she does not drive, but the rest drives.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the words of the TSUE. All this narrative that undermines the independence of judges only on the grounds that they were elected by the National Courts of Justice, whose judges were elected by the Sejm, is not in line with what the TSUE pedestrians in its rulings. This fact in itself, ladies and gentlemen, cannot undermine the independence of the judges. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But the TSUE cites much more.]] Therefore, all such statements, I ask you, are scared of the judges who take part in the competitions before the National Court of Justice, that they are wrongly appointed, that their judgments will be repealed, that they will have disciplinary responsibility for this, in the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, are not supported. That's one thing. With regard to this case law, if we reach and examine the earlier rulings of the TSUE, you will find there such wording that the act of appointment handed down by the President closes any diwags over the so-called. Judge's investment, whether the judge can rule, the case is closed. Taking this opportunity to speak from this place, I ask the judges not to be afraid that anyone will question their investment in the future, because they have been introduced to the President by the current composition of the National Judicial Council. Nothing threatens you in the light of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[It's not the KRS, it's not the judges.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have asked how the National Judicial Council reacts and defends judges who are persecuted. Magistrates Moraviec, Tuleya, Yuszczyszyn. Please state the National Judicial Council is not an organ of the judiciary. It is a central central constitutional body. The National Judicial Council can't replace the court, can't replace the prosecutor's office. If there are any charges against any judge, he has the right to defend his right in court proceedings. The National Judicial Council will not replace the courts. I explained this very carefully during the committee meeting. You asked me about the hater thing. The National Judicial Council has been modelled. Immediately after the news of the circumstances which are called haters, the bureau held a meeting on this subject and requested the names of those who were referred to in this case, explanations. Some of these persons have made such explanations in writing. They're on the National Judicial Council. Some of them spoke about their participation or suspicion that they were involved. At the council meetings they explained, denied these circumstances. Other issues lie with the prosecutor's office, which, I hope, leads in this respect. Once again, the council is not from serving the prosecution or the courts, but appropriate explanations have been requested from the members of the board. You asked about the library committee. The library committee has been liquidated, does not exist. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Why?]] It is true that the board surprised by the amount of expenditure on committee service, but this, too, was one of the questions, verified. The Council adopted a resolution amending the Rules of Procedure which led to the President's review of the convening of committees. This year, ladies and gentlemen, no committee has met outside of the board meetings. This is the result of actions taken as soon as irregularities have been identified. There was a statement here, which personally appalled me, that the board members were taking a double diet. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, your honored marshal, ladies and gentlemen, who are listening to my speech, I categorically and unambiguously state that this was not the case. Nobody on the board took a double diet, i.e. Two diets for one day's work. That's not true. I ask you to take this into account, because at every meeting with politicians, with the media, I explain this fact. That wasn't the case. There was also a question about the increase in the amount of diets - from 3,000. up to 9,000, or any other abstract amount has been given. I don't know where you got that kind of money. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: From your handwriting.]] This year's diet and in previous years amounted to approx. 900 950 PLN. This is calculated on the basis of the national average. I repeat once again - I said the same in my speech - in 2020 the Council spent on the diet of its members by 265 thousand. PLN less than in 2019 and saved 301 thousand. PLN in relation to planned expenditure. I would ask you to take this into account as well. [[Why...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the phrase here is "dumb nationalism." [[Scandal!]] Was that addressed to the members of the National Judicial Council? Are the members of the National Judicial Council an idiot nationalist? Am I the idiot nationalist, sir? On what grounds do you say that? What makes you think I'm an idiot nationalist? Who gave you the right to insult me? [[But it wasn't for you.]] Who are you talking to? [[Who are you talking to?]] [[You know exactly who you're talking to.]] Who? Tell me if it's not for me. My friends? [[Shame!]] Senator Kwiatkowski? [[All those who destroy...]] Senator Zdrojewski, who is a member of the National Judicial Council? They're idiot nationalists, too? [[Make up your mind...]] Are these idiot nationalists in your opinion? Quiet, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Excuse me for saying that. [[Then don't legitimize the destruction of the state.]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Don't shut me up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the time being, I am in charge of these proceedings. I'm asking you to calm down. That's basically all I had to tell you. A statement has also been made on the non-constitutionality of the National Council of Courts. I quote that the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 25 March in Case K 12/18 stated that Article. The 9a Act on the National Court Register is in line with the Constitution. In this regard, he referred to the position already expressed by the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 20 June 2017 in Case K 5/17, which also stated that the selection of the members of the National Judicial Council as defined in Article. 9 is in line with the constitution. Dear Marshal! Thank you so much for letting me do this. I'm sorry I got carried away, but if someone on the street said to me, "You idiot nationalist," I probably wouldn't let that go. On the other hand, I did not expect that in the plenary room of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland this kind of wording addressed to the current judge would escape. I'm the current judge. Tomorrow at hours. I sit 9 in the courtroom, and I think things are assigned to me. In a country that is respected, such recapitalisations to the judge would not escape. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u491	Thank you very much. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Please correct.]] Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, by correcting Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. I'll be right with the committee's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to draw attention above all to what the double dieting system looked like. Namely, some members of the neo-KRS, instead of working in committees on the days on which the plenary sessions of the KRS are held, began to meet simply on other dates. As a result, instead of one diet, they were paid two. Importantly, according to the press, these meetings were remote, short, often lasting several dozen minutes. NIK makes it very clear: 45 times more money was spent on diets in 2020 than in 2019. These are specifics from the NIK report. Nor did you mention paragraph 104 of the judgment of the TSUE, which states that you are not representatives of the judicial environment, but you are representatives of the legislative authority. And that there are 23 representatives of the executive or legislative authority for the 25 members of the KRS. You did not mention paragraph 105, which said that (the bell) you interrupted the constitutionally appointed term of office of the members. You didn't mention paragraph 106, which said that you led to this, saying explicitly that the judges... that there were still changes to the Supreme Court Act that forced the judges to retire. [[Maybe that's enough.]] Thank you very much. You have not mentioned that all these changes have led to reasonable doubts as to the independence of the National Court and its role in the nomination process, such as that which led to the appointment of judges of the Disciplinary Chamber. Thank you very much. The TSUE has made it clear that you do not guarantee judicial independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u493	Thank you very much, Member. Please, rapporteur Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I apologize for the words you heard in this courtroom. I apologize to all the members of the National Judicial Council. I will refer you to the ethics committee. It is not appropriate, ladies and gentlemen - we meet in Parliament of the Republic of Poland - to make such outrageous, even outrageous statements. [[Applause]] [[You claim that Polish law is higher than EU law, so please...]] Ladies and gentlemen, nowhere in the European Treaties has the competence to reform justice been transferred to the level of the European Union. The regulation of the area related to the justice system belongs solely to the national domain, which results directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the EU treaties. It's clearly written down there. The last judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal also speaks of this. I return to the President's report, which quoted a lot of numbers and data, actually speaking about the activities of the National Judicial Council at a particular time, during the pandemic, at the time of the lockdowns, when the judicial board did, however, work, when it directed several hundred people to the office of the President of the Republic of Poland, so that, according to his prerogatives, he could nominate them as judges. You've offended all those judges today. The president apologized to these judges, saying they were safe. The state has insulted them, claiming that they are illegally elected, that they work in different courts and give bad judgments, etc. How can you say that about independent, independent judges who work, and we have about 10,000 in the country.? Are you directing this to all of them? How embarrassing are you? Ladies and gentlemen... [[Ziobro...]] No: Ziobro, just Minister Ziobro. [[Or zero.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have so often relied on the constitution, and we are still proving to you that we have not broken a single article of the Constitution by introducing legislation related to the reform of the judiciary. Art. 8 the Constitution clearly states - I am sending you to it - that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is the most important and overriding law in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in constant dialogue with the European Union also on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We have a month to refer to the document, to the judgment that has been presented. We will also use our arguments. I would not like - the club of the United Right, Law and Justice would also not want you - to use such terms as the neo-KRS, the neo-Tribal Constitutional illegal, because that is not true. You know very well that using such expressions, you, like some journalists, mislead the public with such lies. [[Do you believe what you're saying?]] I would like to say that the Constitutional Tribunal in the Republic of Poland acts legally. The National Judicial Council is acting legally. Don't lie and don't talk about it like that. You also accuse - I don't know where you get this data from, from which your newspapers, newspapers and other portals or television - exceeding your diet payments. Mr President made it clear at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, and today, too, that as regards the payment of allowances, the amount of several hundred thousand zlotys saved in respect of 2019 has been saved, so do not say such things, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to say that concerning the proceedings, complaints - because today, in every statement made by Members of the opposition, it was possible to hear about it - complaints to the Court of Justice of the European Union, interim measures organised in the European Parliament, debates and reports, resolutions and positions on our part - I say from our, i.e. from the United Right, to dialogue, and you only wanted to maintain political dispute. Today... I am sorry, Madam President, but you speak as rapporteur for the committee and you do not present your report to the club, so I would very much ask you to refer to it as rapporteur for the committee. Your Marshal, it is a pity that your Marshal had not previously paid attention to colleagues who did not refer to the President's report, but again attacked our club lyingly and politically again. But I'm asking you to get back to your part. So back to the merits of the case, the Law and Justice Club... Not the club. ... Of course, he will accept the information submitted by your President. Once again, I deeply regret what we have heard here, in this Chamber, i.e. lies, slanders, political prosecutions, insulting the chairman of the KRS, working with him, and insulting all judges who work in various kinds of courts of the Republic of Poland. I apologize for such opposition. It's a shame and a disgrace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u495	It is a pity, however, that you left the role of rapporteur for the committee and took the floor as a representative of the Law and Justice Club. It is also going beyond the rules of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The discussion is closed. I find that the Sejm took note of information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2020. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 22 July. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I'm closing the list. Ms Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. Is there a Member? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In a few days' time, the National Higher Vocational School in Chelm will celebrate the 20th anniversary. This university was established on the basis of a Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 24 July 2001. It started its activities on 1 September 2001. Her first rector was Dr. Hab. Józef Zając, prof. of the Chełm State Professional School, currently Senator of the Republic of Poland. The first specialties in the State Higher Vocational School in Chełma were related to mathematics, i.e. Math teaching, computer science math. These are not very popular and difficult directions, but graduates received job offers very quickly and this was the aim of the university from the very beginning. In the first academic year, she began her studies at the State Higher Vocational School in Chełm in total in daily and absent studies of 210 students. In the academic year 2005 and 2006, more than 2 000 of them had already been studied. The list of students from year to year is steadily increasing. The university employed 29 teaching staff in the first year of its activity, and over the next 10 years the number of employees increased more than sixfold. Currently, he employs almost 450 of them. The breakthrough was the year 2010, in which it was opened, among others. Academic Airport in Royal Depulty. Currently, the Chełm State Higher Vocational School is the country's leading training centre for civil pilots. It has full infrastructure, a fleet composed mainly of new aircraft, which attracts young people from all over Poland and not only. Chelm is already associated with the world of aviation. The National Higher Vocational School in Chełma also has impressive plans for rescue, nursing and medical training, so important today. A new headquarters of the Institute of Medical Sciences is being established. The university already has one of the most modern medical simulation centers in the country. August 19th this year There will be a solemn opening of an extensive airport. I congratulate everyone involved in the establishment and development of the State Higher Vocational School in Chełma, especially Mr Senator of the Republic of Poland, Józef Zając, the initiator of the establishment of the university, and Mr Rector Dr. Hab. Eng. Arkadiusz Tofil, Professor of the State Higher Vocational School in Chelm. I wish you further success in your professional and personal life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u497	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u498	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today I wanted to start my speech from perhaps not entirely faithfully presented quote: Everyone is guilty to his own country as much as he can. Coming from these words, today I would like to highlight the role of a few people who have not been with us for many years, but who have shaped our nation and its history and should be models for us parliamentarians, but also for every young Pole and citizen who wants the good of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the soccer team, and just a few of them. Because, as you know, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, one of the fathers of our independence, who carved himself on the pages of our history, is a universally respected figure, quoted, repeated, but it is not known whether, my dear country, his words are respected and applied by us. In Nowy Sącz, from which I come, I had the privilege of finishing, for example. The work of the construction committee of the Marshal's monument, which began in the 1930s, and the Marshal saw the projects there even then. Unfortunately, they could not be finished, because at that time the mound in Krakow was more important and it was considered that all measures would go to its construction and then World War II interrupted the process. After the war today we finished this great work, which has its roots in the Second Polish Republic. In the II Polish Republic the roots have different values, and the basic value was honor. Honor and devotion to the service of the state. And these are the determinants of our functioning, ladies and gentlemen. And today is a special moment to remind you of that. Exactly 140 years ago, the outstanding Pole Bolesław Długoszowski was born the coat of arms Wieniawa. First ulan of the Republic of Poland, doctor, poet, painter, assistant at universities, but also assistant or first trusted marshal Józef Piłsudski. Ladies and gentlemen, this man in his life was guided only by honor. A prominent man, a dedicated man to the nation, a man who also grew up in my quarters, that is, in the nearby municipality of Bobowa, and finished the same high school that I had the privilege of finishing, i.e. I High School im. Jan Długosz in Nowy Sącz. I was just quoting Long's words at the beginning. My dear ladies and gentlemen, reminding us of this great figure, we should start with one thing: the president of one day, because I do not know whether you all know President Mościcki, when our government was interned in Romania, has just appointed him as his successor. Unfortunately, some political games led to the general resigning himself. But it was a man who went through the entire campaign with Marshal Piłsudski, and when the war broke out and was then posted to diplomatic work in Rome, he made every effort to return to active service. Unfortunately, he wasn't given it. In 1942, my dear countries, hovering in honor and devotion to God and their homeland, writing these words so that God protects his homeland, Poland, unfortunately commits suicide. In 1990, his remains return to the country. Today, on the occasion of his 140th anniversary, it is worth recalling these great Poles, great patriots, people of honor, my dear ladies and gentlemen. People who didn't throw words at the wind, who could take responsibility for their words honorably. But he was also a man of great humor, a spirit of society recognizable throughout the country. To this day there are many legends, anecdotes related to a general who could approach his function and to himself with great distance. When e.g. He was appointed General, ordered himself to print a card with the following contents: General, first and last name, former colonel. So, ladies and gentlemen, this shows that a man who has a distance to himself can be devoted to his country, can be a man of honor for the rest of his life and becomes a monument to future generations. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the character of the general, as well as the characters of other people, such as the gene. Pieracki or Marshal Piłsudski, or other founding fathers of our independence, you can say, will be a model for the young generation, and we will follow their maxim: God, Honor, Homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u499	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u500	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, I had the privilege of attending the ceremony of unveiling the monument of Henryk Sławik in the Szeroka district of Hawk-Zdrój. It was on July 16th, on the day of the birth of a man who hardly anyone deserves to be called a hero, a hero of three nations: Polish, Jewish and Hungarian. This monument is to become a symbolic place that integrates people, showing the values for which our hero gave his life: patriotism, courage, nobility, love of freedom and belief that every man is important regardless of religion, place of birth or social status. Henryk Sławik came from an unrich, multi-children's family and graduated from only a universal school, and in his history he was a prominent social, local and political activist and an active participant in the three Silesian uprisings. In his business he placed Poland and Polishness first. It is not possible in such a short speech to approximate all the achievements of this outstanding Pole. However, it is worth recalling some of the most important events in his biography, which show a huge effort of a man, who has gained a leading position in the social life of the region and the country, until he has finally become a hero saving thousands of lives. In 1928 Henryk Sławik became the editor-in-chief of the Labour Newspaper, a press agency in Silesia. He enjoyed great trust in the environment, which for many years entrusted him with the position of President of the Syndicate of Polish Journalists Silesia and Dąbrowski. At the same time he co-organized the Association of Workers' Universitys and Workers' Sports Clubs. In September 1939, he arrived in Hungary. He became President of the Civic Committee for the Care of Polish Refugees. Thanks to their cooperation with József Antall, senior representative of the Hungarian government for war refugees, they jointly rescued several thousand Poles of Jewish nationality. Sławik was arrested by the Gestapo in 1944. Tortured during the investigation did not release his Hungarian companion, which saved Antall's life. Henry Sławik died in the Mauthausen-Gusen extermination camp. For many years the character and achievements of the hero of Wideness were doomed to oblivion. Fortunately, in many places of Poland and the world he was restored an honorable place in history, among others. thanks to the procedures of Polish Ambassador Grzegorz Łubczyk, and today, you can say Ambassador Henryk Sławik, for which I thank him warmly from this place. The year of Henryk Sławicz in Silesia was declared 2014. Henry Sławicz for his integrity to Jerusalem's Yad Vashem Institute honored him with the title of Righteous Among the Nations. He was posthumously awarded the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. A permanent exhibition dedicated to the life and activities of Sławik has been available in the City Centre of Culture in Jastrzębie-Zdrój for years. Elementary school number 18 in Wideka bears his name. Today, at the place where it all began, at the monument, we can all worship Henry Sławik, the hero of Szeroka, so that this outstanding figure will never be forgotten again, and the next generation will be reminded that man is always the most important, regardless of social status, religion or place of birth. I believe (the bell) that a character as unusual as Henry Sławik should find its permanent place on history books. This from this place, the Sejm of the Republic, I appeal to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u501	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u502	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It was recently held in Poznań. The Equality March, which gathered several thousand people. Thus, Poznań confirmed that it is the capital of freedom, equality and respect, as he recently recommended to remind Minister Czarnek himself. From this place I would like to bow low to everyone, thanks to whom the streets of my city have become so beautiful and colorful. First of all, I would like to thank the Stonewall Group, Ark Kluk and all my friends. Really good for you guys! At the same time, in Tbilisi, nationalists led to the cancellation of the equality march and brutally attacked people participating in the parade and journalists. Although you are still only occasionally, e.g. Under the pretext of pandemics, you forbid to demonstrate, but your policy on LGBT+ people leads to tragedy every day. In March, a man walking down the street with his partner was stabbed in the back. Almost 70% Young LGBT+ people living in Poland have suicidal thoughts. The scale of intolerance, the collapse of child psychiatry in your country shows the report by Janusz Schwertner, about the circumstances of the death of a teenage Victor, a transgender person. This report is mandatory for every person in this room. Trying to tell us they're not people. That's what President Duda said about lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender. Such a sting on Poles and Poles cannot happen. And when such words are used by a person who is theoretically the most important in this country, it is a disgrace and an unforgivable disgrace. How can you allow the Minister of Education, whose duty is to protect young people, to insult people on account of their identity? After the Warsaw Equality Parade, he said that the people who go there were people who didn't behave normally, and the parade itself called public demoralization. Why are you taking the side of violence? You can't keep up with the modern world. You do not understand that the protection of human rights is not subject to discussion and is an obligation. This is why LGBT+ rights in most European countries also support conservative parties. Like in the UK, where same-sex marriages were legalized by the right-wing government. You lean over the fetus, and you don't care about teenagers wanting to kill themselves because they can't imagine living in a country that doesn't accept them. Have the courage to withdraw from your shameful, discriminatory and anti-Polish policies. I cordially invite Members, Members and all others to march equality throughout Poland. The nearest will be held on 14 August in Krakow and 21 August in Tricity. We move on, and love will prevail. I'll see you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u503	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. She's not here. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Five years ago, Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Kownacki announced that drones capable of fighting enemy troops would be produced in Bydgoszcz and Belma's Bydgoszcz had already started producing appropriate warheads. Minister Macierewicz even talked about thousands of drones produced in Poland and bombing enemy targets. And it is known that Minister Macierewicz, in terms of bombs and explosions, is still an undisputed government authority. However, instead of drones from Bydgoszcz and thousands of drones from other plants in Poland, we have dealt with political and unfavourable purchase of drones from Turkey for the Polish arms industry. In response to my interpellation, Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz wrote to me and informed me that this was done within the framework of a top-secret, urgent operational need. Dear Deputy Minister, The fact that Turkish drones were purchased as an urgent operational need is, in my opinion, the same truth as that PiS president is a long-haired blonde, or that drones fly to seawater. According to public press statements, what is an urgent operational need for Poland is not decided by any Minister of National Defence, but personally by the President and Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. That was the case with the abrams, and that was the case with the battle drones. Minister! Haven't you heard about it and read it? And since Turkish drones are used for bombing and not for recognizing, I would like to publicly ask Minister Błaszczak: What and where do you and President Kaczyński want to bomb? Because to defend Poland 24 Turkish drones are not enough, but to bomb targets in other countries and to do damage in Poland by some fanatical policy is far too much. My constituents ask: Will political buying of weapons be necessary for Poland? Finally, I would like to return to the questions to which Minister Błaszczak and Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz have not answered until today. I would like to ask publicly from this place in the High Chamber: What is the state of production of drones in Military Aviation Works No. 2 in Bydgoszcz after nearly 5 years since the announcement that we will be producing drones there? What is the status of the production of warheads at Belma plant in Bydgoszcz? I hope that the lack of answers to these questions will not mean that the ministers have nothing real to say about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u505	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u506	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday I asked from this place what 12,000 did. persons who have been employed as part of the implementation of the 500+ programme for the current government to release them. Unfortunately, this is what happens today because the government is going to move this area to the U.S.S. They're asking what to do. Are they supposed to be looking for jobs yet? And today I will ask something else: What did the Polish village of Law and Justice do to punish it in a new hand when it comes to European Union funds? Ladies and gentlemen! So far thousands of kilometers municipal roads, district roads, thousands of cemeteries, playgrounds, churches - it was in the previous perspective of 2007 and 2013 in this unfortunately no longer - it was realized in rural areas. Not to mention the water supply or the sewer system. Unfortunately, we have sent a great team to Brussels, a Commissioner for Agriculture has been elected. You probably know his name - Janusz Wojciechowski. He fought like a lion for the Polish business, for the interests of the Polish village, for the wonderful green order which today the Polish government criticizes, and it is good that he criticizes. But something happened, ladies and gentlemen, because there were supposed to be double surcharges, and they're gone. They won't even keep the ones we have today. Polish farmers will only find out about this. But what happened within the second pillar, ladies and gentlemen? 30% were immediately moved to the first pillar to somehow tame these farmers and not to go out into the street immediately. But what happened when it comes to rural areas and infrastructure activities? How much will it be? Ladies and gentlemen, zero, zero. Not a buck for local roads, not a buck for plumbing. That's the face of law and justice today. This is the face of the negotiators who went, who were sent to the European Union to fight for Polish business. And what our government today has to say: from cohesion policy, let them give to the marshals. No, dear government, no, dear Prime Minister, you must find a solution and tell us how you intend to find this money in the budget, whether it's in the reconstruction plan or perhaps in other funds. But that's your problem. You have failed to take care of the interests of rural areas that still need support, which still require road modernisation. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 365 thousand. km of local roads. How many years are we gonna do this? 100 years? I'm sure it's been 150 years for your government. That's why this is your real face. Why don't you like your constituents so much? Why don't you respect rural areas? Only if there's an election campaign, you're gonna lie to those people again. And today it's worth showing your face. It's a face that says, on rural areas we give zero, zero for water and sewage investments, zero for roads. And also those who helped you, and I told you it was $12,000. People, today you want to slow down. That's the face of law and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u507	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Green Deal obliges our country to make many changes aimed at improving the quality of life on our planet and changing our country to greener. The objectives set by the European Commission are very ambitious and touch on many aspects of our economy. By 2030, we need to halve the use of the most dangerous pesticides. By the same year, we are obliged to reduce fertilization by 20% or increase the size of our organic farms so that by 2030 they represent 1/4 of all crops in our country. However, the biggest challenge of the European Green Deal is to make our country climate neutral by 2050. This is a very big problem for us as a country whose energy is largely based on coal. One of the solutions to this pressing problem is to increase the share of renewable energy sources in our energy mix. The good news is that Poles are increasingly reaching for domestic photovoltaic installations, and this market is growing from year to year. Currently, according to various studies, as much as 75% households in single-family homes want to invest in photovoltaics. This gives 3.75 million households with around 14 million inhabitants. In addition, at the end of April 2021, the installed photovoltaics in Poland amounted to 4.7 MW. This means an increase of 129% for April 2020 This increase is largely the result of micro-installations. Unfortunately, the rules that they plan to introduce can make it more difficult and discourage citizens from starting photovoltaics. At the Parliamentary Group meeting. The zero-emission economy and the European Green Deal have been discussed on the proposal to change the prosumer system by abandoning the discharge system since 1 January 2022. In the current model, the prosumer benefits around 50 gr/kWh, which the system accounts for. In a new model where it will have the right to self-consumption and sale of energy, unfortunately this financial advantage will fall to around 24 gr/kWh. This means that the benefits for the prosumer will fall by half. In the case of standard installations with a capacity of 6,5 KW, this means that the night financial benefits for the prosumer will decrease by about 1300 PLN. The return on investment will also be extended from 6.5 years to 10 years. Although these changes are now proposals and not existing laws, this has already caused a huge stir in the photovoltaics market. There is a strong interest in photovoltaic installations in 2021, which is unfavorable. This will translate into a large number of installation of many low-quality components made by people with low competence. This gives rise to another problem of installation fires. With regard to fire regulations, it should be mentioned that the Construction Law does not require a building permit or a declaration of construction works consisting in installing a photovoltaic micro-installation with an electrical capacity of up to 50 kW. In addition, in the case of micro-installations with a power of less than 6,5 kW, and the average installation in our country has a power of 6 kW, it does not impose an obligation to agree the design of such a micro-installation with the fire protection assessor and to report the fact that it is installed in the authorities of the State Fire Department. Therefore, most installations are controlled by the owner, and the possible failure and its consequences depend on the professionalism of the installer company. As you can see, legislative proposals, first of all, will discourage citizens from installing photovoltaics due to increasing costs for consumers, and secondly, they can make roof fires more frequent. The Association of Fotovoltaic Industries Poland PV has negatively assessed the proposed changes. You should support the development of small home installations, and the development of home energy storage facilities is also necessary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish photovoltaics are increasingly developed, but further sustainable development will only be possible with energy storage. Increasing consumer costs is a step in the opposite direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u509	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u510	Dear Marshal! Fellow Parliamentaries! Lovers! People of the Interchurch and the Communes of the Interchurch. As you know, there's a lot going on around Deep Lake that's been drying up for years. So it seems that in the interests of all of us, Lubuszan today living, and above all in the interests of the next generations of Lubushan, all who can do something about it should support themselves and, above all, act for one common goal. Unfortunately, I suppose that many things that should be of interest to the most interested, i.e. the inhabitants of the city and the commune themselves, are by you, the ladies and gentlemen, ignored or perhaps you think, quote: once again, this policy is coming up, they are taking on heads, so I won't be interested. No, dear people of Międzyrzecz, this is an extremely important matter for you, therefore, from the height of this place, the speaker in the Polish Parliament, I ask you to be active and to insist on the local authorities to take effective action on your city lake, one of the pearls of the land of Lubuskie. It is paradoxical that today I have had the opportunity thanks to the hybrid opportunity to participate in the Seymical Committee on Culture and Education in connection with the Climate Commission, which adopted a resolution in support of the position of Kalsko XXI Association, in which they demand a waiver of their consent, which is the responsibility of Mayor Lorenz, Mayor of Międzyrzecz, the same one who is not ready to take real and not fake action on the rescue of Deep Lake. How's one to the other? Point a. Deep Lake is a water of 90 hectares. As we know, it's drying out. I've presented the idea of saving him many times, but the mayor resented me, and he doesn't want to take advantage of it. Of course, the interest of the local community, the environmental interest ignores, and in its local newspaper, it slanders me. The effect is that nothing happens around the lake. Point b. In the immediate vicinity of the water catchment area for the lake is to be built in the village Kalsko gravel pit, a huge hole with an area of about 110 ha. And let me remind you that the lake has an area of 90 hectares. If the mayor's trying to tell us that one thing has nothing to do with the other, he's going astray. All reasonable people agree with this position. Of course, you can turn your chasers on me and criticize me again in your paper, ridicule me or ignore me. It doesn't hurt me. Only that it loses the environment and the local community. Today, on behalf of the municipality and the city of Międzyrzecz, I do not ask, but I demand that you take advantage of your legal opportunities and the sensible, responsible management of the city and the municipality, will depart from the investment related to the gravel pit, this huge hole in the village of Kalsko, and finally start saving the lake in concrete terms, I will remind you, in close proximity to your city, one of the pearls of Lubuskie land, especially that all government and local authorities declare their support for these activities. Mr. Mayor Lorenz, wake up and act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u511	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u512	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen! On July 24, we will celebrate the anniversary of the establishment of the State Police. Recovering independence in November 1918 was the beginning of unification of Polish lands in many aspects. Especially important were those that dealt with external and internal security issues. In fact, all the boundaries of that time were on fire. The young Polish state had to fight for its presence on the map of Europe despite the formally declared independence. Changes had to be made quickly in the structure of the widely understood police authorities, which were active in the three former partitions in order to effectively secure the backup of the fighting fronts. The process of the formation of the State Police was long and complicated, and the date of 24 July 1919 could be regarded as its beginning, when the State Police were established on the former lands of the former Russian occupation, eliminating the previously created Communist Police and the People's Militia. Next, police organisations were gradually introduced into the newly created service, usually set up as a model for the existing police security authorities. It took a long time to eliminate all kinds of nuances and discrepancies, and attempts to amend the so-called. Police laws have been taken many times. Most historians accept the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 6 March 1928 as the end of the unification and reorganisation process. Polish police in the interwar period were well trained and equipped. She was very active in Interpol activities. It is worth quoting one of the studies: For 21 years of its existence, the State Police have earned a reputation for a high-level professional and extremely well-managed organization. Some researchers dealing with the history of police formations indicate that the organization of security bodies in Portugal and Japan was created on the designs developed in Poland. Police officers sacrificed blood in the September 1939 campaign, many officers gave their lives in the fight against three aggressors. In areas occupied by the Soviets, the repression was not only themselves, but also their families, exported to inhuman soil. About 12 thousand were taken into Soviet captivity. Officers, of which over 6,000. was murdered in the spring of 1940. They were previously held in camp in Ostaszkow, and the crimes were committed in Tver. When in the early 1990s, just after political change, the Russians allowed archaeological work at police graves, after removing several layers of sand from the eyes of the observing people, a shocking view appeared. The earth was a blue-grained color within a few meters of the excavation from the uniforms of the policemen who were murdered and buried there. We remember them because of their ethos our state police has grown out of today's ethos. On the occasion of the Police Day, I give the officers of all levels, especially from the Piotrków and Belchatów districts, the best wishes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u513	Thank you, sir. Mr Arthur Łącki is not here. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u514	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to bring up a matter that has already been raised several times in this Chamber, but it is still a major economic and social problem. Another, 25th of this year's ASF campfire was found in the herd of the flock in Lower Silesia in the Bolesławiec district. So far more than 26,000 have been disposed of from these 24 herds. animals of the flock. Every such case is a great drama for farms, for farmers, for these families. This is an end to production for many years and this is at the same time a lack of prospects for a return to this production, because there are currently no mechanisms to support the reconstruction of this production. At the same time, this is linked to a decreasing price for buying pigs. This is caused on the one hand by a fall in prices in neighbouring countries, which also have a large production, such as. in Germany, but in Poland also this price fell by approx. 30 gr. This is a significant loss in the potential profit - which is still small - from the production of pigs. What raises great concern is that within a radius of 1 km from the site of the infection, it is most often proposed to dispose of all flocks that do not even show symptoms of the disease. This is often the biggest problem for farmers, as these decisions are taken without consultation with farmers. They do not understand why the Veterinary Inspection makes such a decision in such cases, but at the same time they say that they could understand it if the decision to dispose of the herd immediately followed the invoice and the money for the recycled art. And so there is a lack of perspective, information at what time they will receive adequate remuneration, compensation. The biggest moral problem is when they're a mother flock or when they're a pig dungeon when we're dealing with freshly born animals. That's the biggest problem, because these people are emotionally involved. Often it's not big farms, it's family farms. That is why it seems to me that this requires a solution, especially since - as it turned out - in one of the counties in Wielkopolska, in the south, in the district of Kępińskie, the decision to dispose of less than 500 animals in several farms after the protest of farmers was withdrawn. The veterinary inspection in this county has withdrawn its decision to dispose of the herds. This shows that there is a mechanism that allows for a rational solution to this situation and, above all, for farmers to understand what a decision-making mechanism is. In addition, in this particular case they indicated that the transport to be used for the transport of animals to be put to sleep or stunned did not meet the basic sanitary conditions. They showed it in their photographs, photos, videos. The transport wasn't prepared. Everything they showed there indicated that he was not fit to do so, and that he would travel at least a few hundred kilometers to the disposal site. I asked whether we were obliged to bio-insurance, to meet many conditions, a costly process with little support from the state. On the other hand, decisions on how animals are to be transported, where there is this contamination radius or the nearest place of the disease... This is not quite done according to the conditions. This transport arrives and then transports them by road for several hundred kilometers to the disposal site. Farmers are asking to change these rules to listen to their voices because they want to help you to tackle this difficult problem of ASF disease. Therefore, the industry agreement on the fight against ASF on 12 July has passed on a number of demands - there are also representatives of breeders - which should be met, among others. the request for regionalisation, the request for strengthening the Veterinary Inspection, as well as the request for rapid testing to help the bioinsurance process. I ask the government to resolve these matters urgently, because this is necessary from the point of view of the future of Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u515	Thank you, sir. Please, last statement, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u516	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I would like to raise the issue of mobile container shooters. It's about the big program, and it's about Minister Antoni Macierewicz, about the functioning of shooting galleries in every county. This program, its continuity and the course of implementation, had really different fates. In the beginning, it was said that within two to three years this post could be realized, and in each county the shooting range will function, while there were not many of these calls. The Ministry of National Defence secured PLN 40 million for this purpose. That's actually 80%. financing the entire investment. This should determine local governments to take advantage of this program. There weren't many calls, but this year it turned out that the situation had changed so much that container shooters could be involved. Taking them into account when it comes to the implementation of this programme may lead to the fact that there will be more of these calls. Container shooters are produced in Tarnów mechanical plants. They do not need such powerful infrastructure and preparation of local authorities for this investment. These shooters can lead to the situation that any local government will be able to benefit from this funding. In the last year of these grants there were more than 60, while mobile container shooters were very few. The digital shooting range was dominant. Therefore, it is important to promote and show the situation with regard to mechanical plants in Tarnów, to show how container shooters would improve this program. The promotion of this type of funding for container shooting could close this program 100%. Since we have 40 million zlotys to use and there weren't so many calls, it's worth putting the Ministry of National Defence on the container range. So that the voices of the opposition, two years ago saying that the program is a failure, that local government officials do not want to implement such programs, in my opinion it was a huge abuse, because the local authorities were also unable to build infrastructure under the open-air shooting range in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, the selection of container shooters here could greatly facilitate such investments. And I think it's the best idea to do this program 100%. so that each of 314 districts and each of 66 cities on the rights of the county, so that each such place in Poland will receive such a shooting range. The point is that citizens who want to learn how to shoot, who want to be able to hold a gun in their hands, can learn how to operate this weapon. This is the best idea, the best possible solution to this program. Hence the great appeal to the Ministry of National Defence to promote the Polish armory to promote the Polish Mechanical Works of Tarnów, because really an investment in mobile container range will be the best solution to implement this program concerning the construction of the shooting range in each district. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u517	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u518	Declaration on trial and conviction for the death penalty of Jürgen Stroop, a German war criminal, leading the liquidation of the ghetto in Warsaw. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 70 years ago, the trial of General SS and Police Jürgen Stroop began in Warsaw, leading during the war, among others. the liquidation of the Warsaw ghetto. The German criminal was transferred to Poland by Americans. The trial began before the Provincial Court for M.S. On July 18, 1951, Warsaw was sentenced to death and public rights. The indictment took place among others. a murder charge of more than 56,000. persons, belonging to the SS criminal organization, giving orders to shoot 100 Poles and mass murders. The perverse fate caused him and Stroop to be in a cell - arrested by Communists - Kazimierz Moczarski, a participant of the Warsaw Uprising. The result of these conversations was recognized and appreciated in the historical environment of the book "Conversations with the executioner." The death sentence was executed by hanging in a Mokotów prison in Warsaw on 6 March 1952.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u519	On July 13, 1944, the Red Army won Vilnius with an important part of the National Army. In the city began the legal activity of representatives of the Polish underground administration, in Vilnius and around the city there were concentrated several thousand AK soldiers from the Vilnius and Novgorod districts. Commandant Wolf reported to the chief chief in London: Politycości of the city is beating in the eye. Polish-Soviet talks began on the creation of the Polish corps fighting on the Eastern front with AK soldiers. On July 17, the Soviets insidiously arrested the commander Wolf. On the same day, in the Podwilen village of Bogusze, AK officers from the commanding staff were arrested and arrived there at the invitation of the Soviets. Polish guerrilla troops began marching towards Rudnicka Forest in order to avoid liquidation by the Soviets. On the way they were disarmed and distracted by forces of the NKVD and the Red Army. The mass arrests of the AK soldiers have begun. Stopped in the number of about 6 thousand. They were imprisoned in a provisional camp in Medniki and then transported to Kaluga. Many of them did not return to Poland anymore, many of them returned only after many years. Respect and memory fighting for free Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u520	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Next Sunday, on July 25th, the National Safety Day will be held again. This is an extremely important social action, which requires us to lean even further on the safety problem of road users. On this special day, following the voice of the organizers of the action, I would like to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of Members, and through you to all the inhabitants of Poland, for careful and prudent driving every day, so that we can all travel safely on Polish roads. According to police statistics, the number of accidents is decreasing every year. In 2007 there were almost 50,000, last year - more than 23 thousand. A similar trend is seen when we look at the number of deaths: 5583 in 2007 and over 2400 last year. Unfortunately, the main causes of accidents remain the same: the failure to give priority to the journey and excessive speed. In addition, statistics on the number of road users affected by alcohol are alarming. In 2020, road users, managers, pedestrians and drunk passengers participated in 2540 road accidents, 10.8% the total number of deaths of 327 people. Let the next edition of Safe Driver's Day be the best opportunity to draw attention to the need to improve safety on Polish roads. I would like to call on the Prime Minister and Minister Adamczyk to speed up the implementation of road investments. Statistics clearly show that improving the quality of infrastructure affects road users' safety. It is therefore necessary to implement as quickly as possible all planned investments aimed at improving safety. It is impossible not to mention drivers here, addressing all countries directly. I would like to make a heartfelt appeal for consideration, especially during the holiday period, to ensure that special caution is exercised. I want all those who contribute to improving safety, thank and wish perseverance and consequences. The best wish for you should be that on July 25th, on Safe Driver's Day, there should be no accident on Polish roads. I am fully convinced that this is up to all of us and that through special mobilisation we will be able to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u521	I would like to present a statement by the Association of May 77 on the article by Wojciech Czuchnowski, we prefer to believe in legend. How the myth of the martyr's death of Pyjas (Gazet Wyborcza from 22 May 2021) and the publication of the Pyjas case under the editorial board of Maria Anna Potocka (Publishing House Bunkier, 2021) was dissolved: The text of Wojciech Czuchnowski, published in the Wyborcza Gazeta. We prefer to believe in legend. As the myth of Pyjas' martyrdom unfolded, we find it unreliable and inconclusive. We won't argue with him or correct his mistakes. Except for one thing: it is not true that the teams of experts appointed by the D.A.'s Office in 1977 considered the death of Staszek Pyjas to have fallen down the stairs. On the contrary. On 21 May, a local vision was carried out on behalf of the prosecutor's office with the participation of experts. In the preserved document from the vision we can read that the fugitives went to reality at ul. Szewska 7 to get acquainted with the place of the body and the area of the entire stairwell. As a result of the local vision, the experts decided that it was necessary to exclude the fall of the deceased from any floor (through the staircase rail) on the stone floor. Wojciech Czuchnowski based his thesis on the publications cited in the article. Around the Pyjas case, which appeared under the editorial of Maria Anna Potocka (Publishing house Bunkier, 2021) as a kind of catalogue for the exhibition Dorota Nieznalska (the case of Stanisław Pyjas), presented in the Bunker of Art in 2020, as well as on the published article by Mrs Potocka, three characters, three dramas, in which the author, being the director of the Museum of Contemporary Art of the MOCAK and the Gallery of Contemporary Art of the Bunker of Art, unexpectedly decided to test herself as a historian, investigative officer, and even a colleague of Pyjas. Since we are not aware of Mrs Potocka's qualifications to explain the causes of death of anyone, especially Stanisław Pyjas, we can only suspect that the purpose of the publication is to dissuade Pyjas and the student community of the Solidarity Committee, as well as to whitewash Lesław Maleszka (secret cooperation of SB ps. "Ketman"), which, in Potocka's opinion, did not harm anyone. We don't agree with that! It's hard to minimize. e.g. cooperation with the Security Service in writing anonymously calling for dealing with Pyjas. I'm interested in creating myths. I was attracted to snooping for the truth, fascinated by lying the truth for the sake of defending the myth - explains his attitude towards the exhibition by the director of Bunkra Sztuki and MOCAK. The psychology of people poorly known or unknown and dead by dilettants is a risky procedure, but Potocka (a specialist in contemporary art) does not avoid it. According to our experience, the greatest determination in such operations is shown by those who, before or after the death of Pyjas, did not put themselves in any danger of power. By judging this situation according to their own moral barometers, they gain justification for their passiveness. According to red. W. Chuchnowski Maria Anna Potocka knew Pyjas and his group. None of us remember her from that time, either as Potocka or under Socha's maiden name. Nor is it true in the text given by W. Czuchnowski that Maria Anna Potocka was the author of the exhibition Stanisław Pyjas. The author and curator of the exhibition was Dorota Nieznalska, whose position in this matter we attach. We are not afraid of questions or even more of seeking answers to them, including those concerning the death of Stanisław Pyjas, but we cannot agree to the misrepresentation, manipulation of facts and quotations, to the relativization of the criminal activity of the Peerellian political police - the Security Service and the harmful role played in the fight against opponents of the system of her secret co-workers. The purpose of the Association of May 77 in 2002 is to ensure that the truth about the times of the People's Republic of Poland is passed on, and in the name of this truth we cannot agree to its violation. Attached is Dorota Nieznalska's statement: Dear Ladies and Gentlemen! As the author of the idea, realizer and curator of the exhibitions: Stanisław Pyjas's case at the European Solidarity Centre in Gdańsk in 2019 and at the Art Bunker Gallery in Krakow in 2020 I took with great anger the publishing house "Pyjas" edited by Maria Anna Potocka. The publication, which in some way was to complement the exhibition free of political propaganda, or attempt to formulate its own content, cast a voice to friends, friends of Stanisław Pyjas, to complete his image or to emphasize the memory of him, the environment and those dramatic times, became a pretext for forcing Mrs Potocka's own views and not in line with the facts of the case of his death. I am outraged by such nonchalant treatment of the authors of texts, actually shouting them (it is about setting the proportion of texts in the publishing house) and devalueing the history of the young oppositionist, Krakow's environment, which cares about this memory. I am angry and ashamed that I trusted Director Potocka because I realize that through the presented exhibitions I caused a memory of Stanisław Pyjas, about a poet, idealist, ambitious young humanist, opponent, who ultimately, according to the director - drunk died in an accident! It is obvious that everyone has the right to their own opinion, but not every version so-called. its own truth should be published, thus taking over and dominating the space of memory, as is the case in the publication "Pyjas" referred to here. Respectfully, Dorota Unknown.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In today's parliamentary statement, I wanted to draw attention to the risks associated with the finalization of Nord Stream 2 investments. It is 1,200 km of a two-thread bus leading from Russia to Germany through the Baltic Sea, which is to transport 55 billion m3 of natural gas per year. After an effective completion of the investment, Russia will get its hands on a strong instrument for further sharing transatlantic interests and using its weapons against Ukraine and Belarus, acting as it is customary, both openly and secretly. Poland recognises the threat of further marching Russia into Ukraine, as the existing pipeline system running across Ukraine will become redundant shortly after the completion and launch of Nord Stream 2. The continuation of Nord Stream 2 is a clear violation by Germany of European solidarity in the area of EU energy policy. We are aware that Germany is pursuing its interests and that their interests coincide for various reasons with Russian interests, but are also in conflict with the interests of the countries of Central Eastern Europe. Poland is very disappointed by the withdrawal from some sanctions of the current US administration towards Nord Stream 2. The change in Donald Trump's policy by the current President Biden is based on false hopes of restoring relations with the EU. The German Government officially supports Nord Stream 2, claiming that the project is of a business rather than political nature. This cannot be accepted because German companies Uniper and Wintershall and French England, Austrian OMV and the British-Dutch Royal Dutch Shell participate in the financing of the project. We are witnessing Russia's victory when it comes to building this pipeline. The Russian Federation will have a significant impact on the European gas market. Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder was active in Russian energy companies. After the expiry of his term of office, he was appointed Head of the Board of Shareholders of Nord Stream AG. In October 2016, Schröder headed the company's board of directors. Nord Stream 2 AG. A year later, he was nominated as an independent director on the board of Rosnieft, where according to German journalists he could earn about 600 thousand. Euros per year. A number of other people connected with the German SPD also went to Russian energy. An example of such cooperation is Henning Voscherau, who in 2012 became the head of the Board of Directors of South Stream Transport AG. In October 2016, Marion Scheller, an influential official of the German Ministry of Economy, passed to Nord Stream 2 AG. Also Karin Kneissl, former Austrian Foreign Minister, was nominated for the board of directors of the Russian Rosnieft Group. She was also the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was famous for the invitation of Vladimir Putin to her wedding. So it is wise and wise to continue the strategy of sleep. Lech Kaczyński by the Government of the United Right assuming diversification of gas sources through the construction of gasport in Świnoujście and construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-22-sejm-35-2.u523	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 23 July 2021, by 11 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 46]]
