ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: third reading of the draft resolution on the current state of health protection and consider it as the item on the last agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u3	Thank you very much. If I don't hear... [[Negative, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u4	It's against the law. Can we just... [[Voice from the room: You don't have...]] Got it. Got it. [[Voice from the room: This is the conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u5	So you're the minister... [[It's against the law.]] ...is objecting. Okay. I must therefore call for a vote. I would ask you to focus and listen to the communication on what will be the vote. There are 2 proposals: the first is a request for this item to be placed on the agenda, the second is against. The conclusion further goes against the proposal and will therefore be put to the vote. Who opposes the inclusion of a point on the health resolution on the agenda? [[Voices from the hall: Za, za.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Against.]] [[Who's in favour?]] [[Voice from the room: No, who is against it.]] [[Voice from the court: That's a yes.]] Who opposes the introduction of this point? Raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Against?]] [[Voice from the room: Who opposes?]] Who's in favor of... [[Voice from the room: Against, against.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, who's in favour?]] [[Voice from the room: No, no, no.]] [[Vice-Director of the Legislative Office of the Senate Katarzyna Konieczko: Maybe we should repeat this vote because there is a terrible confusion. There was a request for this third reading to be placed on the agenda and this should be the vote: in favour of putting the item on the agenda.]] But yesterday I was told that if there's a conclusion going on, then... [[Vice-Director of the Legislative Office of the Senate Katarzyna Konieczko: No, this is not the conclusion going further, it is simply the opposite voice. We are voting on the motion for an item to be placed on the agenda.]] Okay. Excuse me, I'll order a resummation of the vote, but it's in accordance with the rules of procedure. After the explanation, Director Konieczko... Well, I don't want to confuse anymore. Please delete this vote. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] [[Voice from the room: And they deleted it.]] [[Voice from the room: It wasn't us.]] The vote changes, the Marshal's orders. I'll say it twice. There is a request for the inclusion on the agenda of a point on the health resolution. And on it we will vote, i.e. who is in favour of introducing, who is against, because it is not a double negative vote: against. I repeat, who... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] We're voting. If you are in favour of introducing a point on the health resolution on the agenda, raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Za, za.]] Who's against it? [[Voice from the hall: We in favour.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 94 senators voted, 49 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] This item will be considered as the last item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, drawn up in Brussels on 22 November 2004. The text of the Act is contained in print No 566 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 566 A and 566 B. We are considering the point today at the request of the Ministry of National Defence. I ask the rapporteur of the National Defence Committee, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I recommend a law which we adopted exceptionally unanimously at the committee's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union agreed that this law should be ratified because Poland's accession to Eurocorpus is in the interest of our country's security. The only question raised during the discussion was why it was so late. What's the holdup? Why did this sudden return, which occurred in recent years and resulted in the withdrawal of the application for Poland's accession as a framework country, a proposal which I personally submitted as Minister of National Defence in 2008? The Minister of National Defence explained where this came from. I remind you, we've lost 13 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u9	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Rybicki has a question for Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, however, I would like to ask about the outcome of the committee's meeting, whether, during the discussion on the need for an obvious ratification of the agreement, this treaty was about the reasons why we are rejoining Eurocorp after 13 years. Then we joined with the President's permission and the Prime Minister's consent. What happened that we must again take this important step for the security of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u11	Yeah, there was a speech about that. Minister Skurkiewicz explained that political circumstances had changed and that the withdrawal of my decision as Minister of Defence, agreed with the President and Prime Minister in 2008, by Minister Macierewicz was related to a different perception of the role of the European Union and NATO in the collective security system. Now that perception has changed again. I think I've given a good account of the Minister's statement. I must say that in 2016, when Minister Macierewicz withdrew Poland from Eurocorp, it was a shock to many, because Eurocorp was never a military organisation of the European Union or a NATO military organisation. He has always been outside the structures of the European Union and outside the structures of the North Atlantic Alliance. He could serve both one organization and another organization, as well as in various foreign missions. From the point of view of the security interest of Poland, the presence of our country in the structure of Eurocorp, alongside the founding countries such as France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, is an essential anchor to safeguard our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u12	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for National Defence were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for being so kind as to allow us to consider this point today. Because of the responsibilities I had, it would have been difficult last night. Thank you very much again. Ladies and gentlemen, Eurocorp... it's a matter of clarification. Perhaps this will involve further questions. Poland has not resigned from Eurocorp membership, and I would like to correct it. Of course, we've completed our work on... It was a decision from 2017, which referred to the status of a framework state in the structure of Eurocorp, but we never withdrew from functioning in Eurocorp. All this time, all this time, we were an accomplice. This contribution in the form of 69 soldiers is something that still applies to us, which does not have the slightest discussion. Why was it decided in 2017 by the then Minister of National Defence to complete the procedure for applying for Eurocorp membership as a framework state? I'll start by explaining the matter of the Framework State. The framework states today are only 5: France, Germany, Belgium, Spain and Luxembourg. Poland would be the sixth framework country in Eurocorp. This 2017 decision was taken on the basis of a very broad discussion in Europe, a discussion about the European Union, the whole of Eurocorp, the involvement and functioning of Eurocorp as a military structure. It was also a decision on the basis of this discussion relating to the creation of European troops, the European military structure, the European army. I would like to draw your attention to a very crucial issue. In 2016 there was a NATO summit in Warsaw. The decisions made at this summit strengthened NATO's presence on the eastern flank, strengthened the involvement of allies, including US troops. At that time, Eurocorps was a bit sidelined by this whole structure, an attempt to create an alternative to the North Atlantic Alliance agreements. Then the structure of the Eurocorp and its activities and commitment were greatly modified, very strongly modified. Today, Eurocorps itself clearly points out that NATO, the North Atlantic Alliance, is the guarantor of security in Europe, but not only in Europe. In recent years, Eurocorp's very strong involvement in NATO's structures and activities has been seen. Hence the change in our philosophy and approach of the Minister of National Defence to Eurocorp. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of these negotiations that have been conducted in recent months, very intensive negotiations, our country has been dealt with much better. If the High House agrees to ratify and the relevant documents are signed by the President, on 1 January 2022. Poland will become a framework state. That's one thing. Secondly, on 1 January 2023, the Pole will be the leader of this structure as the leader of Eurocorp and on 1 January 2024 the Pole will be the chief of staff of Eurocorpus. So we have negotiated a number of such post and forward projections, very beneficial for our army, for our army, and especially for our homeland, for our country. I am therefore pleased to be able to participate in these activities. I am also pleased to be able to discuss this with you here. Please accept this bill. I understand there will be questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u15	Minister, you are right that from a formal point of view Poland has never withdrawn from Eurocorp, that is, from the association. But is it true that in 2017, after moving this decision by one year, a road map was created to withdraw our commitment from Eurocorp?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u16	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have not seen such documents, so it is difficult for me to refer to them. As far as the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, I have not met with such a document, with such a projection or with such a road map of leaving completely Eurocorp.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more questions. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am indeed pleased with the amendment of the decision of the Ministry of National Defence to join Eurocorp as a framework state. However, I am concerned that the Ministry of Defense did not want to admit this change. It's like there's a new decision. I would like to make it clear that participation in Eurocorp, accession as an associated country, as a framework country, is of great importance. As a result of these negotiations, which started in the years 2008 and 2009, they were generally closed, and our entry was to take place in 2016 and Poland gained in the hierarchy the importance of various positions in Eurocorpus a specific timetable for the promotion of our senior officers, including the leadership of Eurocorpus in 2017. And before that, we had a chance to take the position of vice- and chief of staff. As the decision was postponed to 2017 in 2016 and the framework state was abandoned in 2017, we have lost these positions in fact. I know from the Minister's information that we will recover these positions in 2023. That's the real loss we're losing, 6 or 7 years, depending on how much it counts. I must say that I was also a little concerned, and sometimes astonished at the variety of reasons. The justifications that fell were modified on the way between the Sejm and the Senate, between the defence committee and the foreign affairs committee, but in the right direction, which I want to make clear. At the very beginning, it was said that we had only resigned from applying to be a framework state, that we had a decision to reduce our commitment. Then it was said that the arrangements had been withdrawn or that the arrangements had been terminated in a specific position. This is one element. The second element, in my opinion, is untrue, fortunately he no longer appears, was that then Eurocorp was only interested in activities in Europe alone. I would like to make it clear that Eurocorps did not do any work in Europe except for activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while he did very important activities, activities outside Europe, including co-leading in Afghanistan, as well as in Mali, Central Africa, etc. The third element is a very important justification, which emerged in 2017, that Eurocorp is an alternative to NATO. It is not, it is not, nor will it be, but it cooperates in various missions; it is enough to look at the involvement of the French or Germans. In Afghanistan, in particular, it is clear how close it was to co-operation, co-activity. The last elements are in the explanatory memorandum, so I will not quote them. I'm just gonna say one important thing that's gonna make you happy right now. Well, our commitment to what was declared in 2016 is to be doubled. So, generally speaking, Eurocorp forces Which, when taking into account national reserves, will amount to around 60 thousand, and in Strasbourg alone about 1 thousand 100 will have an increased share of Polish soldiers in relation to what was previously planned. And one last thing. I asked you a question about the road map, because I remember perfectly well the words of the Minister of Defence, then Minister of Defence Antoni Macierewicz, who spoke extremely negatively about Eurocorpus and actually moved this decision by a year, and then the MON Operations Centre informed about the creation of a road map to get us out of Eurocorp at all. I do not know if this document was created because I did not see it, but the information that appeared in two magazines under the Ministry of Defence, in fact, confirmed that our decisions were in such a bad direction. Today, I would like to stress once again that the Committee on National Defence, which I was rapporteur, has welcomed the ratification of our participation as a framework country. Let me stress once again: only a framework state can participate in the leadership of Eurocorps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u20	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Bogdan Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u21	It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to clarify certain concepts so that we can be aware of what we are going back to and what we are talking about. Well, the framework state is the state that gives a certain pool of officers to command units, in this case to the headquarters of the Eurocorpus located in Strasbourg, and designates military units, in this case a tactical union such as one brigade. Well, we decided in 2008 the Prime Minister and the President, but I proposed such a decision and then I implemented it. The fact that several dozen Polish officers will be sent to Eurocorpus, who will rotate in command, and that since then several hundred Polish officers have had the chance to go through the best training possible, which gives them participation in planning and preparing the various activities of Eurocorpus, the best possible. We would therefore have a team of several hundred Polish officers prepared to command both the defence of our territory and foreign missions, because, as Senator Zdrojewski rightly pointed out, Eurocorp's command took over before NATO's leadership in Afghanistan took over this mission. Eurocorp was in charge of an ally operation in Afghanistan before NATO put its flag there. In order to be able to lead this kind of command, you have to be the best specialized command possible. It's just a sign that Eurocorp's command is for a medal. And several hundred Polish officers had the chance to function, prepare and train in this command on a full-fledged basis. And this one brigade, or about 3,000 soldiers, had a chance to acquire the right skills in the company of her colleagues from France, Germany, Spain, Luxembourg. This is extremely important. Because the real mission of a soldier in peacetime is to train, train and train again. Is there a better school of military skills than acquiring them from those who know better and are better prepared? There isn't. So for our brigade also rotating. That is, 3,000 soldiers several times, there was a chance to improve their skills and professionalism. Minister Antoni Macierewicz ruined this opportunity by withdrawing us from the status of the framework state in years... The decision was taken in 2016 but was implemented since 2017. We lost irretrievably, ladies and gentlemen, 4 years by making this wrong decision by the then head of the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rusiecki has come forward for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u23	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my thanks to the marshal for putting this extremely important act ratifying the treaty on the agenda. I am very surprised to hear what Senator Bogdan Klich is saying, making a smoke screen out of concern for the Armed Forces, because if you speak, then tell the truth and to the end. Today several times, yesterday also at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence and, I suspect, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, information was presented that Poland and the Polish Armed Forces had never withdrawn from their activities in the Eurocorpus Association. It was certainly not a lost time, as Senator Bogdan Klich said in his speech. Senator, you were the Minister of National Defence in 2009 who interrupted the traditions of Poland and the Polish Armed Forces under the flag of the United Nations for decades, over 50 years. In 2009, it was your decision as Minister of National Defence that caused this tradition and position of Polish soldiers to be destroyed and destroyed. Only the active activities of President Andrzej Duda and the return of Poland after 20 years as a permanent member of the Security Council The UN rebuilt this position, and the great activity of the Minister of National Defence and the highest Polish commanders caused that tradition, which in 2009 was interrupted... After 10 years, in 2019 Polish soldiers returned to the blue flag and now serve international peace in Lebanon. You have to tell the truth to the end, because what you did as Minister of National Defence still has consequences to this day. Great activity of generals, commanders, Ministry of National Defence, as well as the commander of the Armed Forces in strengthening the position of Polish soldiers... On this occasion, I would also like to say, Ladies and gentlemen, that Polish soldiers, guarding the Polish border, serve their country in the best sense of the word and form part of the traditions of bravery and bravery of the Polish weapon. We owe them respect and honor for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u24	Thank you very much, senator. The reminder of the achievements of the next defence ministers is important, but I will remind you that the point is ratification of the treaty, and I would suggest that we focus on it. As part of the replica, Mr. Klich's second speech, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u25	I don't want to give Senator Rusiecki lectures, I can do it after the hearing, and I'd be happy to do it, less than my students. Now let me just say briefly that there is a fundamental difference between peacekeeping missions and stabilisation missions. These missions you mentioned, both in the Golan Hills and in Lebanon, UNDOF, UNIFIL, are traditional peacekeeping missions. Our experience, as you may remember, from Bosnia and Herzegovina was that military interventions, which were of a peacekeeping nature, were completely incompatible with the world of that time. We remember what happened in Srebrenica. We remember what caused NATO-V intervention in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the soldiers in the blue helmets were unable to counteract the massacres carried out on the local population. I would like to say that the missions both in the Golan Hills and in Lebanon, both of which you mentioned were peacekeeping, i.e. they were missions that had a limited mandate, and the soldiers were not able, so to speak, to engage in anything more than merely stationing on the demarcation line. Something else was the operations in which we participated, both the operation Deliberate Force in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the operation Allied Force in Kosovo, as well as the later operation in Afghanistan, which was stabilizing. Senator, at a time when 2 000 600 Polish soldiers, rotating every six months, participated in such a serious challenge as the operation in Afghanistan, and went through the most difficult school, doing the most difficult tasks, it was necessary to opt out of the mission with a much smaller scale of commitment to concentrate on what was at the time the most important for our country. And why is that important? This shows what happened in Poland after 2016. Namely we are Afghanistan, not the Golan Hills, not Lebanon, but Afghanistan, and earlier Iraq, with the consent of all political forces in Poland, bought a security policy for our country so that in the situation of its threat we can count This was the case in 2014 and so, I think, will happen soon if the PiS government stands at the level of the task and launches the article. 4th Washington Treaty to strengthen our country's security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u26	Thank you. The discussion is closed... [[One sentence, Mr. Marshal.]] You're entitled to five minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u27	But it's gonna be one sentence. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'll say it again. You make a smoke screen out of your concern for the Polish Armed Forces. The tradition has been interrupted. The experience that was taken by the commanders, by the soldiers on this extremely prestigious mission of the United Nations... It was a mistake, which was emphasized by the generals of that time and the generals present. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u28	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a 22-minute break. We begin the vote at 11:00. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 38 to 11 minutes 03]] Please take your seats. We've got a lot of votes ahead. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 4 days: 14, 15, 16 and 17 December. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. But it's gonna be plenty, at least that's what it's gonna look like right now. We return to the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 with the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented on the first day of the meeting and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 544 S. Are the IT guys ready? We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 by the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Please make sure she sent the signal. Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 55 votes against, 10 against and 31 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution establishing the year 2022 the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski. [[Applause]] Please approach Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski's presidential table. I'd like to give you the Senate resolution. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] I am delighted to present you with a resolution commemorating a great Pole, a great politician, a great humanist and a great man. Congratulations. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u29	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Applicants! Dear Commission! Rapporteurs! On behalf of the family, especially the grandson of Władysław Bartoszewski, and I would like to thank my own for this honour and distinction. I'm glad we had most of it. I take it with pain that there were votes against, because my father was a person of dialogue and agreement and had as different friends as this. Jan Józef Lipski, whom he referred to as the utopian socialist, and Wiesław Chrzanowski, president of the ZCHN and the pre-war endek, were both friends to death. They had completely different political views, but they shared their concern for Poland. To the right, I'd like to make 3 points, if you don't mind. First of all, maybe not all senators know that my father was a Cursed Soldier, he was a member of a staff military organization NO, which was turned exclusively against the Soviets, and was in it from the beginning until 7 May 1945, when the organization was liquidated. He got eight years in prison for his work at the Armed Forces Delegation in 1945. He spent over six years in communist prisons. He never confessed, until 1990, that he was in the organization NO, because for this he was threatened with the death penalty, which was executed by Communist criminals on the boss, General Fielddorf. Secondly, the conservative Pope Benedict XVI in 2006 awarded his father the Great Cross of the Order of St.Grzegorz the Great, the highest award which the pope can give to a secular person, the highest. Third, in 1985, my father published a book under a pseudonym in the second circulation. Because it was still the times of the commune, ZZZ, the sondicate of crime. Postcards from UB and SB history. And who published this book in the second circulation in Poland? Mr Antoni Macierewicz. Then I would like to leave it to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators on the right side of the memory. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We return to the second agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Bronisław Geremek. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented on the first day of the meeting and that a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 546 S. We are voting on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Bronisław Geremek. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 50 for, 36 against, 9 senators abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Bronisław Geremek. [[Applause]] An appropriate resolution will be provided separately to the Professor's family. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 553 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] One of the senators voting remotely... Check your voice mail. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: What are we waiting for?]] 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions. For those of you who don't know yet, I'm going to say that waiting for 20 seconds results from this... when the signal from the voters is remotely delayed, these 20 seconds give him time to get to the counting machine. Well, when everyone manages to send a voice right away, then we don't wait 20 seconds. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 555 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Remotely...]] Is the senator remotely capable of...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u31	Yes, I am. I've already been unlocked. Good morning. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Please accept the report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Infrastructure. At their meeting, the committees dealt with the legislative proposals they had previously tabled and asked for amendments Nos 1 and 3 and 5 and 9 to be adopted, 12, 13, 18, 20, 23, 24, 26 and 27 and to be adopted with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to inform you that the conclusions were made by Senators Marek Martynowski, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Halina Bieda, Joanna Sekuła, Jacek Bury, Robert Dowhan. In addition, the Committee's rapporteurs were Senator Halina Bieda and Senator Joanna Sekuła. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you authorize me to do so, I will not read the reasons for the amendments, because they have all been discussed several times at the committee meeting. I propose a joint vote on the amendments of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which do not conflict with other amendments and are legislative in nature. These are amendments 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 18. If I do not hear opposition, we will vote on them together. Who's in favour of Amendments 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 18? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendments 3, 26 and 27 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 72 for, 1 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 4 was excluded as only if the previous 3 amendments were rejected would be voted out. So we are voting on Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 6 for, 43 against, 50 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment didn't get the majority. Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You can't hear what the senator's saying in here at all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 99 senators voted, 4 for, 43 against, 52 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment didn't get the majority. Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, two votes for, 45 against, 52 senators abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 16 was excluded because Amendment 15 was excluded from the vote on Amendment 16. Yes, Mr. Legislator? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] It's in the script. Voting on Amendment 16 only if Amendment 15 is rejected. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Yes, sir. Mr. Legislator, okay. We are voting on Amendment 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 92 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking one person voting remotely to check to send a signal. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 94 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Note: Amendment 21 will rule out voting on Amendment 22. We are voting on Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 2 for, 46 against, 51 senators abstained. [[Voting No 18]] We are therefore voting on Amendment 22. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 44 against, 52 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 23. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 24. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 1 for, 97 against, 1 for the senator abstained. [[Voting No 22]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the law, while a minority of committees submitted a proposal for the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate print No 559 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 560 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees are asking for the bill to be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u34	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the Senators Jerzy Chróścikowski, Dorota Tobiszowska, Jacek Bogucki, Wojciech Nebula presented the conclusions. In addition, the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment was Senator Wojciech Piecha. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law. I would like to remind you that a discussion has been held on the bill presented. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs requests the Senate to adopt a draft law in print No 578. The Commission also proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law and the draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act on Energy Law and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft Act to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate print No 552 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote, please pay attention... Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 98 votes, no one was. against and no one held back. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour, no one was. He didn't hold back or hold back. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] We are voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 93 were in favour, 2 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Energy Law. We return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place during the discussion and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 556 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission requests a resolution on the adoption of the bill with amendments tabled during the meeting, with one comment: Amendment 15 will exclude amendment 16. The Commission recommends adopting Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u36	Thank you very much, senator. Do the other Senators still want to speak? Let me remind you that you were Senator Stanisław Lamczyk of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. We are voting on the amendments tabled in the first place and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. I propose a joint vote on amendments to the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws which do not conflict with other amendments as they are legislative in nature. These are amendments with numbers: 1 and 14, 17 and 22, 26, 28 and 31, 33, 34 and 37 and 44. If I don't hear any objections, we'll have a vote like this. Who is in favour of the joint vote on the amendments I just mentioned? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendments 23.25 and 27, 32, 35 and 36 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Amendment 15th...]] Well, we're about to get to Amendment 15, easy. The machine, please turn it on. We vote on the amendments together, and here I read: 23.25, 27, 32, 35, 36. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The voice from the hall: On the board is different.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There is another amendment on the board.]] Again... Resuming for technical reasons. We are now voting together on Amendments 23 and 25... [[Voice from the room: There is a mistake on the board.]] On the board, please correct it. Amendments 23.25, 27, 32, 35, 36. This is a joint vote on these amendments. [[Voice from the room: No. 27...]] 32, 35, 36. Yes? Activate the voting machine again. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I don't see the results of the remote vote, Mr. I.T. Move me... I don't see if all the remotes voted. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I see they voted. Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] We are voting on Amendment 15. I would remind you that, according to the committee's recommendations, the adoption of this amendment will exclude the vote on Amendment 16. We are voting on Amendment 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 462 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Law on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and maritime administration and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We're almost halfway there. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 569 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees at today's meeting discussed the proposals made during the debate on the law and put forward the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal set out in point I, i.e. the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u38	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the second Senator want to take the floor yet? No. I would like to remind you that during the discussion, the senators Jacek Bury, Bogdan Klich, Marek Borowski, Marcin Bosacki and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski submitted their conclusions. In addition, Senator Marek Komorowski was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We need to correct the bill. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote and the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled. Allow me not to read their content. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment one... [[Mr. Marshal, can we vote on all the amendments block-by-block?]] Excuse me, how? Why don't you take off the mask? 'Cause you can't really hear it. [[I am giving consideration to voting on all amendments together.]] [[Voices from the hall: But no...]] But it's not agreed between clubs, so I'm afraid it won't be accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[A friend can vote together.]] We proceed with the vote on the motion for amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 votes against 47 and no one abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 3 for, 47 against, 48 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 48 against, 48 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Note: Amendment 5 will rule out voting on Amendments 6 and 8. We are voting on Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 1 for, 98 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] We are voting on Amendment 9... [[Voices from the room: No. 6.]] Yes. Excuse me. Let me remind you that the vote on Amendment 6 was to take place only if Amendment 5 was rejected. The same will apply to amendments 7 and 8. Who's in favour of Amendment 6? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 8... [[Voices from the room: She's excluded.]] Excuse me. There's a certain lack of consistency in the script. Amendment 8 is excluded from the adoption of Amendments 5 and 7. We are voting on Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Attention, amendments 11 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 97 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Attention, Amendment 12 will rule out voting on Amendments 13 and 14. Who's... We are voting on Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 1 was in favour, 98 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] We are therefore voting on Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 votes against, 42 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: a law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 568 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's meeting of the Infrastructure Committee took place. The Committee on Infrastructure has examined 8 amendments to the Act on the special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks and recommends that the High House adopt the Act with all 8 amendments, while asking for the combined vote on Amendments 1, 4 and 7 and Amendments 5 and 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u40	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicant still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by Senators Ryszard Świlski and Jan Hamerski. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 4 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 48 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 51]] They didn't get the majority. Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Attention, amendments 5 and 8 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 55]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 59 votes against, 36 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law on the facilitation of trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 554 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the facilitation of trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, we're in the middle of a vote. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 551 A. In the first place, votes will be held on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Legislative Commission, which eliminates the error in the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the act on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement in respect of care for children requiring constant care. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 558 A. A minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy also asks for amendments to the Act. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Note: Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5 and 9 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please... Oh, one more person. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 64]] Minority proposals 1, 2 and 3 are marked as amendments 10, 11 and 12. They are transferred to the Family Benefits Act, i.e. to the law of substance, amendments concerning the statutory guarantee of the right to benefit more favourable to persons who receive care benefits and submit an application for specific pension benefits. They must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 65 for, 16 against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the act on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement in respect of care for children requiring permanent care. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 557 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on. But they're not... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean there isn't one? There are 11 amendments.]] There are 11 amendments. Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are therefore voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 takes into account that the submission of correct and complete accounts and supporting documentation of the data contained in the settlement is a future uncertain event and therefore the date of occurrence of the event cannot be indicated in the contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[I vote the way the marshal votes.]] 91 senators voted, 77 for, 1 against, 13 senators abstained. [[Voting No 67]] I propose to vote on amendments 2, 3, 4 and 5 together, because I'm reading it. Amendment No 2 eliminates language errors, Amendment No 3 inserts a reference in the appropriate place in the structure of the provision, Amendment No 4 adds missing references and harmonises the corresponding provisions, and Amendment No 5 harmonises the terminology of the law. If I do not hear an objection, we will vote together on Amendment 2 and 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 6 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 43 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 7 eliminates the gap, taking into account that the financing of employees' salaries was not only due to the remuneration of persons remaining with the employer in the employment relationship, but also to the remuneration of persons engaged in employment on the basis of a civil law contract, provided that they were subject to compulsory pension and pension insurance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, ninety-six, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 8 will also extend the scope of the criminal provision to a collective entity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 9 contains provisions in the appropriate place in the structure of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] Amendments 10 and 11 shall be editorial and shall ensure the internal consistency of the provision. I suggest we vote on them together. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendments 10 and 11 together, you will. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 73]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to agenda item 17: the law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 571 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! These committees at today's meeting considered the proposals made during the plenary session and requested that the amendments set out in points II (1), (2), (4) and (25), 27 and 28 be supported. If you don't mind... If the proposal for a law without amendments is not adopted, as proposed by the committee, we would like to propose that the legislative amendments agreed between the lawyers and the committee be voted together. These are the amendments with numbers 1, 2, 4, 6, 24 and 28. All these amendments can be voted on together, I do not think there is an objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u42	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. I would like to remind you that during the discussion the proposals were submitted by Senators Bogdan Klich, Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Ryszard Bober. The rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration was also Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Let me remind you that Senator Bogdan Klich has withdrawn his conclusions in point II. 3 and 26 in print No 571 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 1 was in favour, 94 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. If I do not hear an objection, we will vote on amendments 1, 2, 4, 6, 7 and 28 in conjunction with the committee's recommendation. These amendments are amendments consistent with the law and ensuring technical, legislative and editorial correctness. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 3... [[Voices from the hall: No, this one doesn't...]] Oh, I'm sorry, that's an amendment withdrawn. Thank you for reminding me. Now it's gonna be Amendment 5. Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] And then there's these amendments that are in the process. Yeah, yeah, yeah... one second. We will vote on Amendment 25, but I would add that the adoption of this amendment will exclude the vote on Amendment 26. We are voting on Amendment 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 27. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? ...one Senator from the remote... Check it out. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 79]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 93 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 80]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 with the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 547 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee on the establishment of the year 2022 by Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 as the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 with Brunon Schulz. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 545 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing 2022 the Year of Brunon Schulz. We return to the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 as the Year of Botany. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 543 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution establishing the year 2022 the Year of Botany. An appropriate resolution will be passed to the Polish Botanic Society separately. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 567 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, drawn up in Brussels on 22 November 2004. The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 560 A and 560 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 85]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, drawn up in Brussels on 22 November 2004. Please focus, we're slowly approaching the end. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the third reading of the draft resolution on the current state of health protection. The second reading of the draft resolution took place yesterday. Following the discussion, the Senate sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the matter. It is in print No 561 X. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee, which refers to the draft resolution on the current state of health protection. The committees at the joint meeting on 26 November 2021 responded to the proposal submitted in the course of the discussion. The committees did not support the proposal and request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution on the current state of health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u44	Does the senator applicant, Senator Alexander Swed, want to speak yet? I can't see. [[There's no poor girl.]] [[There isn't.]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the adoption of the draft resolution presented in print No 561 S. We proceed to the vote on Senator Alexander Swede's motion to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? [[Voices from the hall: Za, za.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Against.]] Who's against it? [[Voices from the Chamber: Against.]] [[Voices from the hall: We are in favour.]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 45 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 86]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft resolution contained in print No 561 S. Who's in favour? [[Voices from the hall: Za, za.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 87]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the current state of health protection. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-third Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Let me remind you that statements can't last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Magdalena Kochan will be the first to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is addressed to the Minister of Health by the senator group's statement on the pregnancy count. Minister! On 8 November a draft regulation of the Minister for Health was published amending the regulation on the detailed scope of the medical event data processed in the information system and the manner and time limits for the transmission of that data to the Medical Information System. Project e.g. extends the patient data catalogue by the municipal code, place of residence or stay in Poland. The data catalogue also includes data on medical devices implemented to the patient, information about allergies occurring in the patient and his blood group. The public opinion has appalled the health minister's obligation to report from 1 January 2022 to the Medical Information System of the pregnancy found in the patient. What do you want to count your pregnancy for, Minister? After all, it is not about improving standards and increasing care of pregnant people in Poland that this project is about. This government has been taking and restricting the laws of Poland for six years and shows that women's safety is of little importance to the Minister of Health and the Government. This draft regulation of the Minister of Health is another step towards looking into Poland's life. It's another restriction, coercion, and control that's gonna make it worse, and it's already undesirable birth statistics. It is worth recalling that after the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October Ub. Polish women have stopped giving birth, they are afraid of being taught by the ruling ideologies, which deny access to modern medicine. It is worth recalling that the number of births has decreased in the last 12 months and is the lowest since World War II. Minister, who specifically proposed to amend the draft regulation of the Minister of Health on the detailed scope of the medical event data and to add to the Medical Information System the necessity to calculate pregnancy? What exactly is that supposed to do? Who, instead of counting the pregnancy... I'm sorry, when instead of counting the pregnancy, we're going to treat pocovid cases, and when will the health of Poles, future mothers and present mothers become a real concern of the Minister? Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, Małecka-Libera, Gorgon-Komor, Barbara Zdrojewska, Alicja Chybicka, Jolanta Hibner, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Joanna Sekuła, Halina Bieda, Ewa Matecka, Senator Marek Borowski, Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Świlski, Leszek Czarnobaj, Tomasz Grodzki, Marcin Bosacki, Michał Kamiński, Bogdan Klich, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Ryszard Bober, Beniamin Godyla, Wojciech Ziemniak, Stanisław Lamczyk, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Kazimierz Ujadowski, Stanisław Gawłowski, Janusz Gromek, Władysław Komarnicki, Sławomir Rybicki, Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr. She also submitted separately because she is working in this meeting remotely today, her statement to the minutes, signing this statement, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u46	Thank you very much, Senator. Professor Senator Alicia Chybick will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! My statement will be about glyphosate. It is addressed to at least a few ministers, first, to the Minister of Agriculture, second, to the Minister... to the new Minister, the Minister of Moscow, the Minister of Environment and Climate, i.e. Minister of Environment and Climate, as well as Minister of Health. And now a few words about glyphosate, which is a known agent. This is the most popular active ingredient of non-selective herbicides in the world. It increases the risk of cancer, especially non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It is also attributed a negative effect on gastrointestinal bacteria, resulting in digestive problems, hormonal disorders, autism, Alzheimer's disease, depression, Parkinson's disease and liver disease. As time passes... For many years now, there has been a battle in the world and in Europe to prevent this measure from being applied. Maybe I'll zoom in. Glyphosate is a member of Roundup. I am convinced that, unfortunately, among the senators, there must also be people who pour weeds in their garden, because this is the middle of it. e.g. Weed-killing. The state forests pollinate the forest from the plane with these very means, because there are several of them, it's not just Roundup. Sprayed in many cities are weeds on playgrounds for children. These aerial sprayings are often caught by various farms. It was found in a farmer in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, because research began, people began to rebel, to suffer 70 times the norm, i.e. the level considered safe. This measure not only threatens people, animals, but also destroys other biological life when it rains. The whole forest or the whole field. It also destroys the soil structure. The standard of this agent in human urine, because it is tested in the urine, is up to 0.5 ng/ml, in pigs 7.76 ng/ml, because it turns out that pigs even have an elevated standard. And now the questions to these ministers. First of all... On 15 December, but unfortunately only 2022, the consent for the use of glyphosate in the European Union expires. In Poland, fortunately, the use of glyphosate was banned in 2017 before the crop harvest when there are no weeds on the plantations that make it difficult or even impossible to harvest. This, however, opens the way for the harvested plants to also be sprayed before this harvest, which means that there will be quite a lot of it. And I would like to stress the question to the Minister: when will we prohibit the application of such measures at all? Isn't it after 2022? Because the extension, as far as I know, will be gone. The world is withdrawing from the use of glyphosate. Although it could still be applied by 2022, it is prohibited in Luxembourg, Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. There are also prohibitions outside Europe, e.g. Argentina, Australia, Colombia, Canada, India and New Zealand. Why is Poland as usual at the gray end? Already in 2015 the International Agency for Cancer Research classified glyphosate as a possible carcinogen. This is one of the so-called. switches, because you need switches to activate the cascade of tumor. I appeal to all the ministers: to the Minister of Agriculture For the withdrawal of this from agriculture, to the Minister for the Environment For the withdrawal and prohibition of the use of forest spraying in the environment and for the Minister of Health To look into it and intervene, so that Poles do not get sick because of this remedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Timer signal]] About a second you used 5 minutes. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement in connection with the aggression of Belarus on Poland is made on behalf of a group of Senators of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. For the first time after the fall of the Iron Curtain since August this year our country is planned, organized and systematically attacked by another country bordering it. The authorities of the Republic of Belarus with Alexandra Lukashenka, led by the authorities of the Republic of Belarus, are using special air carriers of citizens of the Middle East and Africa, on the pretext of a further development of the migration crisis in Europe. Officials of the Belarusian State with empty promises, lies and technical assistance encourage them to cross the border illegally with Poland, and when this does not work, they force threats, violence in violent groups organised for this purpose. We strongly condemn the actions of the Lukashenka regime and its eastern rulers. They not only violate all international standards and undermine fundamental human rights and freedoms, but also lead to loss of health and life by often innocent, defrauded people. As a result, they are also ineffective. Instead of the declared revenge on Poland and Europe over time, Alexander Lukashenka grants another conflict to his country and citizens, because foreign nationals who reside legally within the borders of Belarus are responsible only for Belarus. We expect friendly countries, members of the European Union, NATO and Ukraine, the blockade of flights from the Middle East and Africa to Belarus, flights that supply potential illegal immigrants. In addition to stopping transport organised by human traffickers, it will be effective to stop lawlessness by tightening the sanctions imposed by the international community on the Lukashenka regime. We thank you for the specific assistance, including military, offered by the authorities, among others. Great Britain, Estonia and the Czech Republic According to the proverb that friends get to know each other in poverty. At the same time, we respect these politicians so-called. democratic West, which seems to determine the fate of Poland over the heads of Poles, without their consent. At the end, it always turns against those who believe in authoritarian systems, in this case. Aleksandra Lukashenka. We warn against negotiations and concessions against him. The current situation is clear: either with Poland against the aggressor or against Poland with Belarus. Tertium non datur. We negatively judge the attitude of a few Polish citizens, organizations and institutions who can be deceived by Belarusian lies that feed on human feelings. In this way, these people actually interact with Belarus, they are part of the scenarios outlined there. We find it unacceptable that Polish-speaking media attacks on soldiers, policemen and officers operating their noble duty to defend their homeland are balanced on the border with Belarus. We commend the overwhelming majority of Polish society understanding the current political situation. Thank you for your support and solidarity with the defenders of the Polish border. We call on Poles to maintain unity, not to give in to primitive, lying Belarusian propaganda. First of all, we express our highest respect and appreciation for officers of Border Guard and Police and soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, including the Territorial Defence Forces, for their attitude and actions in defence of the border of the Republic of Poland. Border protection is a fight for the territorial integrity of our country, consistent with the best historical patterns of Polish weapons. The statement was signed by the following senators: Rafał Ambrozik, Jacek Bogucki, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czeriński, Dorota Czudowska, Wiktor Durlak, Ewa Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mariusz Gromko, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Maria Koc, Marek Komorowski, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Józef Łyczak, Robert Mątów, Marek Martynowski, Krzysztof Mroz, Andrzej Pajk, Marek Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Jarosław Rusiecki, Janina Sagatowska, Michał Seweryński, Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Aleksander Szwed, Rafał Śluszarz, Dorota Tobiszowska, Kazimierz Wiatr, Alicja Zając. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u50	Thank you very much, senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u51	Mr. Marshal, my statement is addressed to the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs. Moscow is currently undergoing a process of decommissioning the Memorial, an organization that was established in 1989. It is a well-deserved, oldest organization documenting Stalinist crimes and defending human rights. Memorial is an organization which in Russia was founded by the old opposition, which was still active in communism, under conditions in which it seemed impossible to function. The memorial was founded, among others. Andrei Sakharov, and active in it also died this year Sergei Kowalow. This organization focused the best forces of Russia, the best people, open people, people for whom Stalinist crimes were part of the history of the Soviet Union, which all Russians should remember. What is happening today with the Memorial, which was previously listed as foreign agents and subject to a number of restrictions, shows the direction in which Russia is currently going. For us, for Poles, Memorial is also extremely well deserved. He was involved in the murder of Katyn, a manhunt in Gibach, where about 500 soldiers of the Home Army were lost. He provided material on Katyn's murder before President Jelcin handed over official material. That is why I believe that Poland should speak on this issue. Memorial is people who remember crimes, Russians who act in a situation where the current Russian authorities do not want to remember these crimes. Or she's denying it at all. The memorial collected a list of 3.5 million people who were repressed, mostly shot. I ask: what is Rau's foreign minister going to do about it? Will he take the floor and say that this decision is not only a decision to eliminate the most important Russian organisation, an independent Russian organisation, but also a decision that indicates the direction in which the current Russian authorities are going? I therefore expect the Minister to speak decisively on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Wojciech Necessary will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Minister! The fourth wave of epidemics is rising. We have an organizational change in the hospital about how to fight the pandemic. And I appeal to the Minister to restore the third degree of care of patients with COVID-19, i.e. that patients who are to be treated with specialist care, not in covid wards, only in specialist wards, e.g. neurological, cardiological or surgical, they were sent to designated departments so that not all hospital units were subject to treatment of patients with COVID-19. The epidemic has reached such a size that we can expect that patients from COVID-19 will be targeted at every hospital's specialist department. The solution that has been applied so far in previous waves was correct. The fact that we created e.g. impact wards for patients with COVID-19, allowed us to treat more patients in other wards because there either patients with COVID-19 were not there, or they were immediately transferred to these third degree wards. I ask you to reinstate such solutions or to justify why such a solution has not been introduced in this phase of the epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-26-senat-33-3.u54	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 13 minutes 04]]
