ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u1	I open the twenty-first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Richard Śvilski and Senator Alexander Schwed as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Ryszard Śvilski, and in room 217 Senator Alexander Szwed. Senators of the Secretaries, please take your designated seats. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217 shall be asked to enroll in questions and to speak in the discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Ryszard Śvilski, and in room 217, Senator Alexander Szwed. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? On the other hand, States Senators taking part in the meeting in a remote way, and today it is probably 18 people, please make sure that the iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I'd like to inform you that in 15 minutes, we're gonna block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that the vote has begun, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on some tablets after the vote: in the voting window and in response to the question of confirmation. Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] So many senators are currently attending the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that at its 25th meeting of 20 and 21 January 2021, the Sejm adopted: the only amendment tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011; part of the Senate's amendments to the Budget Act for 2021, to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Fighting of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and certain other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Administrative Procedure and certain other laws; all amendments tabled to the Law amending the Prison Service Act, the Act on Prevention and Control of Infections and Impaired Diseases in People, and the Act on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and crisis situations caused by them. In addition, the Sejm rejected the Senate resolution rejecting the Strategic Reserves Act at the same meeting. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 18th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 19th and 20th Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the item be deleted from the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws It will be discussed at the next Senate meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that point 5 of the draft agenda be considered, although the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic was provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda after the point on consent to the appointment of an ombudsman The second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous fibres in Łódź; the second reading of the draft resolution on the surrender of Aleksey Navalny to the ban and the brutal suppression of the democratic opposition demonstration by the Russian Federation authorities; the second reading of the draft resolution on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland; the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Rzeszow-Ustrzycki Accords and the establishment of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers; changes in the composition of the Senate committees. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal... [[Voice from the room: There is opposition.]] [[Mr. Marshal, there was a voice of opposition.]] Yes, sir, I'm listening to you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u2	I object to completing the agenda on the point concerning the draft resolution on the alleged threat to freedom of the media in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u3	Okay. To other points, I understand, the senator does not object. [[No, I'm not.]] Good. In the light of the opposition, we are voting on the proposal I have made concerning only this point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the threat of freedom of the media in Poland. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Oh, there's a voice. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] The point will be introduced. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I'm saying... Mr. Senator? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 21st Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Tomorrow, i.e. On 18 February, we will begin the session at 9.30 a.m. from the point on consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, and then, after this point, after the vote, we will carry out a second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous fibres in Łódź. Immediately after consideration of each of these points concerning fibrous fibres also There will be a vote on these matters. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would add that, depending on the speed of the legislative process, we will try to steer the deliberations so that your presence here is as fruitful and diligent as possible. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski on this case, is it okay? I asked before, but there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry I'm a little late asking you this question. On the agenda, the second reading of the draft law on equalisation of property losses is as point 7. We, the representatives of these closed industries, have initially informed that the reading of this project will take place on Friday morning as the first point. Does that conflict with the information we gave?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u5	Yes, Mr. Senator, in the sense that we have raised this issue in the Senior Convention in the context of the speed of proceding. If the pace of procession is as we expect, this point and the commemorative resolutions, in addition to the point concerning fibrous fibres, will be considered on Friday before noon. If this pace changes, and especially if some sort of fate hastens, then I will call an ad hoc Senior Convention to decide what to do next. Yes? Thank you very much. We proceed to the first item of the agenda: the Foreign Service Act. The text of the Act is contained in print 316 and the report of the Commission In print No 316 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As draftsman of the committee, I could in principle limit myself to presenting only the result of voting on the Foreign Service Act, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I would ask you to focus on the senator's report. If there is a need to talk, please lead them in clowns.]] That's right, I'm joining that request. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to describe the proceedings of the committee because we have devoted a great deal of attention to the bill under review, considering that it is a fundamental law for our foreign service and for Poland's position in the world. The committee meeting lasted about three hours. The final result of the vote - 6 votes against, 1 vote against, no abstentions - reflects the discussion at this meeting. I must say that as chairman of the committee, I have tried to allow all the opinions that have been submitted to us. This time we were lucky to have a lot of opinions. There was, of course, a relationship between the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister Jablonski, who, from the government's point of view, presented arguments for this law. In addition to this voice, there was no positive vote on this law, both among those who were formal representatives of the institutions who shared their opinions with us and among the advisers of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The following opinions came to us before the committee meeting. We have received 2 opinions from the Solidarity. The first was the opinion of the NSZZ National Commission, which was very critical of this law, and the second was the opinion of the NSZZ Works Commission, which was even more critical than the first. It can therefore be said that the trade union, which rarely speaks in matters of legislation presented by the government, has subjected the law to strict assessment and very serious criticism. We also had two opinions from the Ombudsman. The first one referred to the idea of introducing the so-called. diplomatic secrecy as another, absent from the existing Act on the protection of classified information, classified griffin for information originating from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ombudsman's second opinion referred to the entire bill and was also very critical. Finally, we had, ladies and gentlemen, the opinions of the foreign affairs committee's advisers presented in the sitting room or remotely. They were, you can say, crushing for this bill. The chairman of the Works Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity of Foreign Service Workers, Ambassador Zdzisław Raczyński, who came to the service already in independent Poland, pointed out that the nature of the work on this law was quite different from that of the law, which was adopted in consensus in 2001. I must say that the work on this law lasted for several months and was carried out as should be the work on all other laws, which was a tradition for 25 years of independent Poland, for the first 25 years of independent Poland, listened to opinions of various political backgrounds, suffered these positions and finally came to some consensual solutions. I watched this work as the then Minister of National Defence in the years 1999/2000 and I must say that ultimately that law adopted by the minority government of the Election Action Solidarity was a reflection of the position of the earlier coalition of the Union of Freedom The Action of the Election Solidarity and other groups that were then in opposition. In other words, the work on this law is described by the chairman of the Works Commission, which considered that they were hasty and in breach of the law, as indicated by the analysis of the legal office of the National Commission, which he referred to. I note that the legal office of the National Commission for Solidarity considers that the work on this law was carried out in violation of the law. That's one thing. Secondly, Solvency claims this law to be a misdiagnosis of the present state of affairs and considers that this law will not lead to a hermeticisation of foreign service, because the access routes to foreign service are sufficiently open and the government's assumption that foreign service is currently too hermetic is a misconception. This is what the representative of the "Solidarity" points out in his opinion. And it gives facts, it says that 1/3 ambassadors of the Republic of Poland in the world and almost half of ambassadors in the countries of the European Union come, so to speak, from outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is very important data to confirm this opinion. Thirdly, in its opinion, Solvency considers that the Act is contrary to the Law on Departments and, in fact, to the philosophy adopted in the Law on Departments. In the case of that law, the government was in favour of the vice-ministers being included in the civil service corps, while the solutions contained in that law go in the opposite direction. In addition, it considers that this law may introduce a deep dysfunction in the foreign service. What does that mean? This means that it can lead to an increase in the number of conflicts, to confusion in the management process, to a lack of clear competences, to overlapping of competences between the main pillars of Polish diplomacy, i.e. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Head of Foreign Service, whose role is extremely exposed in this law, and, finally, Director General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So much for headquarters. As far as the institutions are concerned, this law could lead to deep conflicts between the ambassador and his deputy. Ambassador, who, according to this law, would perform a purely political function, to carry out the function of representative of the Republic of Poland towards the country or international organisation in which he is affiliated and his deputy, responsible for all matters relating to current management, finance, staff, etc. This dysfunction of the foreign service is to refer to the opinion presented by the committee The aim is to relieve the ambassador of responsibility in a large area, but to transfer this responsibility to his deputy, which will lead to inevitable conflicts between the ambassador and his deputy, but also between the Director-General of the Ministry and the Head of Foreign Service, in view of the lack of clearly defined competences of these 2 institutions on the ground, in the country. In fact, solidarity speaks more strongly because it speaks of the fact that it is unacceptable to prohibit officials It's another case. For professional diplomats in trade unions, it is incompatible with international regulations, including Convention 151 of the International Labour Organisation, which specifies precisely that such restrictions are It's only possible in uniformed services. It was also a topic discussed during this meeting, that foreign service is not a uniformed formation, it is not considered to be such and should never escape. And that even in some uniform formations like the police, trade unions are allowed. Why, then, should trade unions not exist in the foreign service? At the end of this opinion, "Solidarity..." I would like to introduce it to you very carefully, because not everyone has had the opportunity to get to know it. It refers to the fact that the provisions of this law are, first, contrary to the Constitution, second, incompatible with international law and thirdly incompatible with the legislation in force in Poland. We were asking in very detail why these provisions would be contrary to the Constitution, as at that time we had not yet had the opinion which was prepared for the purpose of the committee, for the purposes of the entire Senate by a constitutionalist, Prof. Chmaj, who has shown this in his expert opinion. And Solidarity put forward this view. In its view, the non-constitutional restrictions related to the restriction of union freedom, freedom of expression, the possibility for foreign servants to speak publicly. The Bureau of the national committee received the draft law for an opinion very late. This is another argument showing that this law not only in the opinion of Members... but that the work on this law was not in accordance with any legislative technique rules, because the bureau of the National Commission of the NSZZ (Solidarity) received a draft law for an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the President of the Council said, about 11.00 22 January, i.e. a dozen hours after the act was passed. Several hours after the bill was passed in the Sejm. Finally, of course, there was a thread of ex-lege retiring all diplomats who were over sixty-five years old. There is, however, a gateway for a foreign minister who could accept an appeal against such a decision and leave in the service of such an appealing diplomat, but the Solidarity clearly states that, firstly, this principle is incompatible with the law in force in Poland, and secondly, this possibility without specifying in the law the criteria for which the Foreign Minister could invoke, allows such great voluntaryism that practically makes the fate of all these diplomats dependent on the recognition of the Foreign Minister. So not the procedure, not the terms, not the criteria, but the foreign minister would decide that. So much for "Solidarity." We have also heard the opinions of the Senate Legislative Office. It was a very broad opinion. I'm just gonna talk about the most important things, i.e. this provision, which causes work in the foreign service to expire on the date on which the person concerned reaches the age of sixty-five, i.e. the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 1 of the Act. The Legal Office states that this provision, concerning members of the civil service corps employed in the office serving the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the country, as well as diplomats and national workers employed on the basis of appointment in a foreign institution, is incompatible with the principle of equal treatment regardless of age, which is one of the fundamental principles of Polish labour law. The Legislative Office recalls that according to the article. 11 of the Labour Code any discrimination, including age discrimination, is unacceptable. The Labour Code prohibits age discrimination in Article. 183a §1, according to which workers should be treated equally in relation to the establishment and termination of employment relationships, conditions of employment, promotion and access to training for the improvement of their qualifications. The Legal Office also stresses that the Supreme Administrative Court has expressed itself against the background of the law on bailiffs in a similar case, in that it was an appeal from the position taken by the bailiff, who was 65 years old, precisely in such a spirit that such a principle constitutes a direct discrimination. And the Legislative Office also points out that exceptions to this rule should be included in the law itself, as I said earlier, in order to prevent voluntaryism from being allowed by the Foreign Minister. Finally, the Ombudsman's opinion This is the third opinion I would like to inform the High House of It also crushes both the overall assessment and the detailed assessment of the newly introduced diplomatic secrecy. The Ombudsman considers this to be an important restriction on citizens' access to public information. This restriction on access to public information would also be voluntary. It would not be defined by such principles as all clauses, starting with classified, secret and top secret, in the Act on the protection of classified information. The Ombudsman considers that the citizen has the right to enjoy this access at both national and foreign level, both as regards the functioning of institutions in the country and as regards those representing Poland outside. If, on the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wants to keep some information secret, making it proprietary, confidential, top secret, or secret, then there are appropriate tools to do so. Therefore, why impose additional restrictions, he asks the Ombudsman. The rest, ladies and gentlemen... Oh, maybe the High House could use another opinion that shows what it looked like to proceed with this law in the Sejm. Well, the fact that in the Seym we are dealing with haste, we are experiencing in the last five years on the occasion of every bill, and especially these most important laws. The fact that we are dealing with breaches of the principles of legislative technology, the principles described in the relevant regulations, is obvious. We also experience this in this case. But Members also say that the bill was introduced as the first point of the previous sitting of the Sejm without any prejudice. That's one thing. Secondly, the procedure for proceeding in committee was scandalous, where a serious discussion on the shortcomings of the project was prevented and the request for a public hearing was not put to the vote at all. And, after all, not only ambassadors, former ambassadors and lower-level diplomats, but also representatives of the academic community dealing with international or European affairs have much to say on all these issues. Since the current government of university staff recruited many new ambassadors, filling them with such key diplomatic posts as those in Paris or London, why is it that in the case of such a general, fundamental change in the foreign service of the Sejm is not ready to hear their opinion? Thus, the request for a public hearing was not taken into account, nor were the criticisms of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, which were also dismissed. At the same time, he pointed out that the reservations of the Legal Office of the Sejm concerned inter alia. violations of constitutional rules. All these comments were rejected by the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, then there were speeches, as I said, committee advisers and committee members. The members of the committee, the senators, will have a chance to speak in the Chamber, and therefore I will not discuss these statements. Maybe I'll just say one thing. Well, according to the majority of foreign affairs committees, this law simply cannot be corrected. Therefore, the adoption of any amendments to this law is not in line with the objective. Unfortunately, this law leads to further destruction of our diplomatic service, and consequently to further lowering the rank of Poland in the world. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, we have read the crushing opinions attached to the project... or actually to the bill, because right now it is a bill. We have also heard our foreign affairs committee's opinion. My question is this: what does the President and the committee believe is the purpose of these provisions? What's that supposed to do? What is the purpose of these changes, so critically judged by so many environments?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u9	Senator, I will use the opinion expressed during the committee meeting. I will quote here the opinion of one of the advisors of our committee, a long-standing ambassador, Mr Jerzy Marek Nowakowski, who said that after the adoption of this law, professional Polish diplomacy will be eliminated. End of quote. In my personal opinion, This is the next stage of the destruction of Polish diplomacy, after it was first deprived of significant parts of its responsibility, after the European pawn was formally handed over to KPRM, after the control of security matters was largely taken over by the President and his law firm, after the economic dimension of our foreign policy ceased to exist. Recently we have learned that it is Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin who oversees the investment and trade agency with its foreign offices, whose number is not fully known and with whom contact is available. Just through the control room. This was all described during the previous discussion on Polish foreign policy. This process is continuing at the moment. After cutting off, I would say, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs important areas of competence it was time to destroy the core of foreign policy, namely the diplomatic service itself. And this bill serves that purpose. She's probably there too, I mean. In foreign service, as in other fields, there was a place for party activists and their families, which is supposed to lead to the creation of a nomenclature resembling the nomenclature from the times of the Polish People's Republic. But that's my opinion. [[Thank you very much.]] First, I quoted the opinion that was presented to us, and now I have shared my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. You have put forward critical votes on this bill, but in your report you have not presented what the Minister has responded to the allegations. I understand it wasn't a one-sided discussion. During the committee meeting there was also some interaction, there were some answers. Tell me how the Minister responded to the allegations which, I understand, were discussed during the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u12	The Minister did indeed respond to the objections, but since he is present in the Chamber, I assume he will present his opinion. I'm not gonna do that. However, I regret to inform the senator that there was not a single positive opinion of the senators attending the meeting, invited guests and those who expressed their views in writing. I say this with sadness, because such situations do not actually happen, so that no one can say a good word about the proposed act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. As a matter of fact, Mr. Senator, I address Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. That the senator is presenting a report to the committee, which is critical, and is therefore duly reporting the reasons for criticism of the bill. And since the author of the project is the government, the representative of the government, as Mr Klich said, will clearly refer to all of this in a moment. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I have a question about the committee meeting and the opinions presented. I have before me the opinion of the NSZZ National Commission. It is indeed negative for many solutions, but there are positive elements there. Here's what I'm going to quote. The extension of the social security catalogue of foreign service officials employed in foreign offices, for example, to cover the fees for kindergartens, should be recognised. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 7 of the Law on Health Insurance, the introduction of allowances for the maintenance of the spouse and children, the alignment of the additional leave of members of the diplomatic corps with that of appointed civil servants. So that positive elements also appear here. The Legislative Bureau's opinion and other opinions contain proposals for amendments to the law. I know that the Minister for these proposals was open to these substantive comments. Were any amendments tabled at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u16	There were no amendments tabled at the meeting, except for those comments made by the legislator, but which were not supported by any of the participants in the meeting, including perhaps by you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I strongly share the opinion... not even the fear, but the opinion that this law is de facto about to terminate the diplomatic service as we know it. I would like to ask the Senator rapporteur three things. First of all, how does she deal with the state of affairs of the Diplomat Academy? Secondly, how does she, in view of the current state of affairs, determine the scope of the Director-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? And thirdly, a new entity is being created, a new institution: the head of foreign service. What is the reason for this? What is the relationship between the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Director-General and the Head of Foreign Service, of course, as part of the new proposals for regulation? I ask this because it seems that these regulations will de facto eliminate the criteria which relate to the competences, knowledge, experience and competences necessary in the exercise of diplomacy for the Republic of Poland, and will, as it seems, serve the ruling party. Am I wrong or are these new laws such a threat? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u19	If I remember correctly, Mr. Senator, we did not talk about the location of the Diploma Academy, but, as an explanation, I will say that this law does maintain the Diploma Academy, but not the only source of professionalization of our diplomatic staff and promotion, the uplifting of qualifications, etc., because it also introduces a side gate of access to the diplomatic corps. This side gate is the possibility of joining such a corps after several years of service in the case of foreign workers who have so far had no experience, no professional preparation. So you can say that the Academy of Diplomacy is a road, but the side gate has been opened, from which the Ministry's management You can have such concerns. you will want to make a rich profit. That's one thing. The powers of the Director-General are poorly defined here, but the role of the new Head of Foreign Service is very strongly stressed. In fact, the head of foreign service is essential in our diplomacy, because he is responsible for the staff. It seems that this long-standing Lenin rule in Poland, that whoever has control of the staff, this one rules, comes back in this law, because it is the head of foreign service who is obliged to report once a year to the Foreign Minister on how staff policy works. Of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs can always ask the Head of Foreign Services what specific issues, decisions, trends, trends, etc. are like. But you can also imagine the situation if this law does not prohibit that the head of foreign service will say: here you go, next year's information, Minister. This is a pathological situation in which the head of staff becomes a key figure in the department, thanks to his office, thus limiting both the competence of the Foreign Minister and the competence of the Director-General, which makes this vaguely defined triangle of divisive competences in principle possible things that we do not want to see. But, as I say, when it comes to the Diploma Academy, we didn't talk about it. With regard to this dysfunction of this new agreement, yes, such a discussion took place at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee and, I believe I have reported, the dysfunction of the foreign service was one of the main elements highlighted by the chairman of the NSZZ Solidarity of Foreign Service Workers in the Ministry, Mr Raczyński. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I can see, no further questions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Voice from the room: There is, at the moment...]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Rusiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have such a question for the senator of the President: how are the interests of an independent, sovereign state secured in this proposed act, to exclude once and for all from the Polish diplomatic services former co-workers of the communist camera services of the Polish People's Republic of Poland? We see whether we have seen such situations so far, that such people appeared in the Polish diplomatic service. And was there a discussion on this subject in the context of the submission?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u22	If I remember correctly, the Minister mentioned this in his introduction, but there was no discussion about it. Let me remind you that there is a proper procedure that, in the event that someone is a co-worker of the services of the communist state, and would conceal this information, disqualifies him to take up any public office. And that's what the Mirror Act says. It's true, isn't it? Which we adopted in this Parliament, its modification, at the beginning of the previous decade. However, let us tell ourselves that unfortunately this law brings back something much worse from the Polish People's Republic, which, I hoped, was definitely abandoned in Poland by all groups. Well, this bill brings back, so to speak, a neo-communist nomenclature. And this is the biggest problem of this law, that is, by means of this law, the mechanisms taken over alive from the communist state are now being implemented for foreign service. And that seems to me to be the biggest problem we are facing or facing in this House. And that means that those who want to support this bill will take responsibility for restoring the Polish People's Republic to the Polish diplomatic service.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[I'd like to comment...]] Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but now is the time to ask questions, not comments. You have the right to 10 minutes in the debate and 5 extra minutes later. But now is not the time... I'm very sorry, sir, but this is not the time to express your opinion. However, you may ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u24	So I'm gonna ask you an extra question. Of course, procedures are, I think, familiar to all of us, but such incidents do happen after all. I will mention just one such situation, although some time ago, and it is about settling as a high officer of the Polish diplomacy of Mr Turowski, who, despite all, was allowed to perform such a high function. So that's what happened, in spite of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u25	Thank you, but it was still not a question. However, I, of course, agree with the senator, because we still have, from the Supreme Court to diplomacy, many people connected with the camp of the Polish People's Republic, even among the judges of the most important tribunals. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question. Then you'll be Senator Danuta Jazlowiecka. If there are any further questions... You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. For now, we have three requests to ask Senator Klich. You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you are an experienced politician, you have worked at home and abroad. I have a question for you. The Act introduces a definition of diplomatic secrecy, and this involves a large voluntary approach to the application of this concept. We are currently witnessing many irregularities and cases of mismanagement, which is not a secret. My question is therefore: will access to this diplomatic mystery also include Members and Senators performing their control functions? That's the first question. And now my second question. One of the problems with this bill is the record of forced departure from service after 65 years of age. It's gonna be, I think, a legal problem, that's what the Legislative Bureau even talked about. But I would like to draw attention to another aspect. You know that diplomatic knowledge. It is purchased for many, many years. Such knowledge does not appear in a year or in two years. My question is: why should we dismiss experienced diplomats only because of their age, if there are no health reasons why they should do so? I'm 76 years old and I don't feel bad, physically or mentally.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u27	Congratulations, Senator. We're all very happy about this. I would ask that Senator Klich give Senator Komarnicki an answer, based on this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u28	Thank you very much. As for the first case, Senator, this access to information from the Foreign Ministry will apply to everyone. Among the guests who spoke during the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, this was the dominant view It has been expressed clearly by several people That it is enough to seal information mechanisms in the scope of the Act on the protection of classified information currently in force. Indeed, where necessary, provision should be made for a "reserved" clause. Some documents should not be available to a larger group of people. It is only due to negligence that such a clause is not imposed, so it is better to change habits than to introduce a new kind of mystery, not included in the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information and not used in any other field. Although I must admit, during our debate, one person... Specifically, it was the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, the current MEP Radosław Sikorski, who spoke positively about the introduction of this diplomatic mystery. Well, as far as professionalism is concerned, this is one of the most important reasons why so many institutions and so many practitioners criticize this law. Well, the role of ambassador should be the culmination of a career. The diplomat defeats the various levels of diplomatic inception until it finally reaches the highest function of the ambassador. However, the corps of ambassadors under this law will become a political corps. During the meeting of the committee, the political corps was formulated. In holding this committee meeting, I realized that this was more about stubborning the ambassadors' corps, because the fact that the ambassadors' corps is political is a matter of nature. Well, it is known that these are people who represent the Polish country abroad politically towards other countries and towards international organizations. So it's more about stubborning the ambassadors' corps. The shortening of the possibility of using diplomatic title, the title of ambassador, only until acting as representative of the state abroad, the function of ambassador, means that this corps of ambassadors appears and disappears with a change of government and thus undermines the institutional continuity of the Polish state. And the question is, what's the point? Would it not be better if this continuity were guaranteed if competence were acquired as a result of a tedious climbing at diplomatic levels? Wouldn't it be better to have a professional and continuous diplomatic corps with ambassadors who are, of course, political, but aren't partying?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u30	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns the Head of Foreign Affairs. From what you've been presenting here... Well, you kind of demonized that function. I read that the head of foreign service can be appointed and cancelled in any case and the foreign minister does so. Maybe I'm reading this bill wrong. I would ask for an explanation as to whether the head of foreign service can really become independent, or whether he is simply a person who is completely subject to the foreign minister. And the second issue of citizenship. How is it so far in this case? Maybe the law didn't say anything about it. What about the citizenship of our representatives abroad? Can they be nationals of other countries? The fact that Polish law, the Citizenship Act provides that if you have Polish citizenship, you do not take into account possible possession of another country's citizenship, I know. But what is it like in practice? And are there any restrictions now that you can't be a citizen of another country if you want to work in foreign service? Is it necessary to have only one citizenship, Polish citizenship? And how do you feel that this law introduces such a requirement that it can only be a Polish citizen?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u31	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to leave my role as rapporteur. Therefore, I will answer to the senator so that, first of all, as far as the powers of the foreign minister are concerned, there was no mention of him that you used such a phrase. Demonity, i.e. that he is a demonic figure. However, in these opinions and in those voices which were at the committee's meeting, the excessive role of the Head of Foreign Service and its expanded competences with regard to the powers of both his superior, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Director-General of the Ministry, were undoubtedly raised. As for the citizenship of our diplomats... There was no discussion on this at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, Senator Czerwinski has no further questions. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm not gonna get an answer anyway.]] [[Privately, we can say things to each other, but I am the committee's rapporteur and I inform the senator that we did not discuss this at the committee meeting.]] I have a question, otherwise in this mode maybe not quite right, or like. The senators who had 3 citizenships were appointed ambassadors, this problem was also raised. Because there have been cases. But this is an important subject, certainly. If there are no further questions, we will thank Mr Klich... [[Thank you very much.]] ...for very comprehensive answers. I inform you that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister Paweł Jabłoński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u34	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today I have the opportunity to take the floor and present this law to the High House, for which I, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, believe so, and so is the position of the Government. We believe that it is extremely important and extremely necessary. I'm glad we can discuss this bill. And, despite these different critical opinions, this position remains unchanged. I would just like to draw attention to something that, unfortunately, is once again manifesting itself in this discussion. We have a law ahead of us in a comprehensive way that changes the key element of the public administration of the foreign service. This element, which is kind of a special category of our civil service. A service which is called upon to represent our country abroad in bilateral relations. The government assumed that after 20 years of validity of the Act in force, this law entered into force on 27 July 2001... no, sorry, it entered into force in 2002 and was adopted in 2001 and a comprehensive reform is needed, some things simply need to be improved. And I am pleased that this kind of work was reflected in the form of a project first, which then After a very long, very substantive discussion in the Sejm, it was supplemented, improved, made several dozen amendments during the committee's work and gained the shape of the bill that we will be discussing today. It is true that the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has devoted ca. 3 hours, as the President pointed out in his report, but I would like to express some disappointment at the fact that, in fact, Senator Sweed, as he pointed out, if I remember correctly. None of the substantive issues, not one of the substantive amendments, were raised during this meeting. There were a lot of opinions very strongly politically, very emotional, also often indicating the ignorance of matter, to which I will go in a moment. Unfortunately, no elements have been reported that could simply be assessed better or worse and could be discussed whether they are simply improving the functioning of the foreign service or not. I regret it. I'm really sorry about that. Because I believe that the shape of the state administration of the sense of largo, but in general of the Polish state, and in particular the foreign service, is extremely important and we should all care that it works smoothly. If we are not discussing substantively, and there are terms here about some neo-communist standards or the will to destroy foreign service, it is difficult to discuss it differently than going into political polemics. Which, of course, we have the right to do, even we have the obligation, because we are all politicians, and I am also here in a political role. But at the same time, if we are talking about the bill, I think that the substantive issues should be a little more important. Why did we first come out as a ministry on the assumption that such a law was needed? We see that today, at a time when diplomacy is very professional throughout the world, it is necessary to introduce a fundamental distinction, a fundamental division between two aspects of diplomacy. Because, of course, we have this very important aspect. And its importance is growing. Professional diplomacy, the aspect of professional diplomacy, but at the same time we have a strict role a political role which, in principle, is indicated in our constitution by placing the ambassador as head of a foreign office as a body of political nomination. In the current law, this division was unclear and often led to a situation which was not healthy from the point of view of the functioning of the State. This line between professional diplomacy and this factor, which is political, but above all, is democratic, because it represents a government which is the emanation of the democratically elected Sejm and Senate... It is essential that such a clear limit be introduced. And this clear separation of the political factor, the democratic factor, from the official factor, is the essence of this law. That's what's missing so far. We're bringing it in here. And, to be honest, I think that if you look at it from a distance, apart from our current political disputes, from the fact that one or the other formation disagrees with each other, you can see that this law will actually serve every government that will manage the state in the future and will also manage the foreign service in the future. This clear separation causes us to be clear about the situation. But at the same time, separation would not be sufficient. That is why we have introduced amendments, major changes to the foreign service structure. I am referring to the introduction of a new distribution network, a new promotion path in terms of diplomatic degrees, greater transparency in service employment and new solutions in terms of remuneration and social security, social security for foreign service members. We come from the assumption that the foundations of the workings of the foreign service corps must be apoliticality. And that's why we're putting in place a whole list of restrictions that will actually be imposed on professional diplomats in order to ensure this apoliticality. Mr President referred to these limitations too, and I will refer briefly to them in a moment. However, regardless of all of this, we assume that these restrictions will serve professionalization. Because here we rely primarily on how civil service is shaped. Also based on the shape of the Civil Service Act and the existing civil service position of the Head of Civil Service, we are introducing a new position, the position of Head of Foreign Service. This is actually a very similar solution. Because nowhere in any other area of state administration is there such a situation that the Director-General of the Office simultaneously performs the functions for which the Head of Civil Service, responsible for the entire body, is responsible. This situation, which is currently taking place in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, creates numerous functional problems. And we assume that it is advisable to establish a separate position. And this is what you asked before, Senator, the position of head of foreign service is in fact a position subordinate to the Foreign Minister. And here we are not talking about any emancipation of this position, because it is simply a hierarchical structure. Another issue raised here is the opening of diplomacy. I am aware that you can have different opinions on this, and here we have also been familiar with these opinions. The opinion that at the moment diplomacy is sufficiently open or that it is too closed, sometimes even that it is too open, that it should be closed even more... Such amendments were tabled in the course of work in the Parliamentary Committee by Members of the Platform. We had a debate on this and we assumed that the current mechanism for achieving the diplomatic degree through the diplomatic Academy should be maintained as much as possible. And here, as Senator Szejnfeld pointed out, of course, the Academy of Diplomats, what we have created, this mechanism of professional school for diplomats, a professional school of the highest quality, which educates the elite of Polish diplomacy, is maintained. At the same time, I cannot agree with what Mr Klich said: that there is some side path to the conclusion that the main road is the academy, and we are also introducing a side gate. The diplomatic seminar, which is intended for people already employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because this is the structure of this path to obtaining a diplomatic degree, will also be conducted by the Academy. This is not a side path. This is a path that at the moment will allow a large group of very good professionals who are employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but who do not have a diplomatic degree, are often long-term employees, have excellent experience, knowledge of languages, are well aware in various areas, whether territorial or thematic... They will be able, thanks to a diplomatic seminar, without going through a diplomatic application, which, by its very nature, is a career path for younger people, fresh from college... This diplomatic seminar will allow us to introduce into the professional diplomatic service also those people for whom it would be much more difficult at the moment. Here's another thing. Mr. Marshal, I will be brief on the issues that this bill introduces. Here, too, the issue of diplomatic secrecy has been raised. Indeed, it is as the President mentioned, that... and I think it also in some ways contradicts this thesis, that the bill is not absolutely positively judged by anyone. Mr Sikorski, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, whom I believe most of you on my left, clearly said that he does not agree with the criticism of this institution, disagrees with the criticism of the diplomatic secret institution, because he believes that there are such categories of information which are not covered by any classified griffin, any clause that makes it impossible to disclose them, but at the same time their disclosure may be harmful from the State's point of view. This is the kind of information that we are dealing with, and this kind of information falls within the category of diplomatic secrecy. I very rarely have the opportunity to agree with Minister Sikorski on a matter, so I am all the more pleased that today is such an opportunity, because it is a rare situation in which, beyond political divisions, we can agree that a solution is good for you. And I would like us to discuss this bill in such a spirit. Therefore, I will now move on to the issues that were raised as part of the preliminary part, in the course of the questions to the President, because some of these questions were more addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr President pointed out that the Senate Committee had dealt with this law extremely carefully, that it had been devoted up to three hours to this bill at the Senate Committee meeting. Dear Members, during the meeting of the Parliament's committee, we discussed the law for more than 10 hours and it was discussed in an extremely substantive manner. One rule after the other was discussed, amendments could be tabled to each of these provisions and many amendments were tabled, many amendments were accepted. I think what we started today... Mr Grodzki pointed out that the Sejm accepted one of the Senate's amendments tabled to the Act on amending the scope of reservations to the Istanbul Convention. It is also a bill which I had the honour of presenting in this House together with the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Justice. I think that this indicates that if the amendments are substantive in nature, it is really an opportunity to work in substance on this and the Sejm is ready to accept the wise, substantive amendments tabled by the Senate. This is what the Foreign Minister in the Sejm called for. That is also what I also called for during the committee meeting, which unfortunately did not make such amendments, although, as Senator Sweden rightly pointed out, the proposals for such amendments in various letters were in different opinions and we were, and we are, all the time, open to discussion on this issue. I think that if we are talking about the very specific issues that have been raised here, this is the second time that I would like to draw attention to, because this is, I think, extremely important, that it is worth it before criticism, especially one that is not based on an analysis of specific rules, but also on the current rules, and on those which are included in the law. Then we would avoid a situation where we simply make some mistakes, or in a way that is not real, we describe what it looks like. Several symptomatic issues, because unfortunately this phenomenon was evident in the Sejm, during the meeting of the Sejm Committee, as well as during the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union in the Senate. The first issue raised by Mr Klich is the alleged ban, which is contrary to the Constitution, on the restriction of trade union membership for professional diplomats. Ladies and gentlemen, the law does not prohibit membership with trade unions. The Act prohibits the performance of professional duties in trade unions. It is an analogy, in principle a word in the word prescribed in the article. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 6 Civil Service Act. This is the professionalization of the official corps, that other types of functions which may be conflicting with the tasks of the service, civil or foreign, should not be performed by people in these positions. It's a professional decision. If someone chooses to be a professional diplomat, they give up certain privileges. But it's not about membership, it's about serving as a trade union, it's about being a very important distinction. Next thing you know, I'm glad Senator Swed noticed. It concerns increasing the scope of social protection, increasing the scope of benefits for our employees, for members of the foreign service. We, when working on this bill, have really spent a lot of time analysing this fact, talking to our employees, seeing what kind of problems arise in their everyday functioning. This applies to both benefits related e.g. with motherhood, with reimbursement of pre-school care fees, with various types of allowances for foreign service, with transitional provisions... in the case of maternity leave, we have introduced the principle that in such a case it may actually be necessary to dismiss workers or employees from the service Because this also applies to paternity leave because the institutions sometimes need a quick replacement, but we keep the foreign allowance paid for 6 months so that this worker is not discriminated against in any way. So that he stays in the service, is not fired from work, or any other consequences do not happen to him. There's a lot of this kind of legislation here. I think it is extremely important that we talk about such specifics, because if we are talking about whether the law makes sense or not, we need to talk about specific regulations, we need to analyse what is at the moment. I thank Senator Rusiecki very much for asking about securing Polish foreign service from the presence of people who were connected with special services, were officers or were secret co-workers of security services and other bodies of totalitarian countries. And here again, I don't want to get very detailed, well, pick on some of the statements, but it must be recalled that it is not the law that forbids such persons to perform this function, because in the act of illustration there are also such records. It is in our Foreign Service Act that we introduce an article. 5, which simply says that such persons cannot be members of the Polish foreign service. We care very much about this. This article in a slightly different version is already in the present law, but we move it to this law and give it a full sound so that it does not actually happen. The issue that raised a lot of objections or questions, it is a question of retirement age for professional diplomats. Here we leave, Dear State, on the assumption that some age limit must be defined, in order for the diplomatic service to naturally adapt to a changing environment. This provision, which we are introducing, is based on general pension regulation, so it applies to people aged 65 years, with this one condition that here, in the case of diplomatic service, we do not make the age difference between men and women. In view of the nature of this work, we have also taken this assumption. But, of course, it is as Senator Komarnicki pointed out, that there may be cases in which people who pass this age still function well, work well, are excellent diplomats. We absolutely want to continue working with these people, so we introduce the principle that any person over the age of 65 will still be able to be a professional diplomat if the Foreign Minister agrees. And here I would like to make a brief reference to the statement made by the President that there is such a principle that something is happening according to the Minister's will. Mr President, we have a system of state so designed that it is the government that is responsible for the functioning of its administration. If the Foreign Minister had no influence on such a key element as the management of the personal condition, the order of the Foreign Service Corps or the Civil Service Corps, it would be a manifestation of some complete dysfunction of the entire system. The Minister of Foreign Affairs from democratic choice, who is the representative of the government appointed by the Sejm, elected in democratic elections, is responsible for his decisions. It is up to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to decide how Polish diplomacy works, otherwise this responsibility will not work. If we deprive the Foreign Minister of influence on such matters, it will in principle not be possible to hold anyone liable in the event that there are reservations about the functioning of the state administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I have briefly referred to the issues that have been raised here, perhaps not to... Excuse me, sir. Senator Czerwinski asked. I've got it written down. The question of citizenship. Mr. Senator, you raised that question about citizenship. I'm in a hurry here too. We introduced the principle that we maintain the obligation to have Polish citizenship by people generally working in foreign service, also for people who are not professional diplomats. As regards diplomats, foreign workers and the head of foreign service, we introduce an exclusive category, which means that these people can only have Polish citizenship. We are aware that this may raise reservations sometimes, but we come from such an assumption that, if someone is a professional diplomat, there should be no possibility that there are suspicions, pressure on such a person for various purposes, even for such a reason that someone may assign him a slightly different intention, because he has a different nationality, even if there is nothing wrong with it. At the same time, however, we are introducing some derogation from this principle for diplomats who will perform this political role, because here this verification mechanism, the control mechanism, the democratic mechanism guarantees this sufficiently. We assume that they should not have the nationality of the country in which they will be in the institution. However, in theory there may be such situations that people with double citizenship perform excellent service for the Republic of Poland in institutions in another country. This is about ambassadors, this is about this political factor, which, as I mentioned, we distinguish from the official factor. That's the idea we came up with. This was the subject of a discussion and a rather long discussion during the session of the Sejm Committee. Dear Senators, I hope that I have briefly addressed all the important issues that have been raised. If any issues remain unclear or you wish to supplement your knowledge, I shall remain open to further questions. I hope that we will discuss here in a substantive manner. I am not running away from any political dispute or dispute about the idea of this law, but I believe that if we question certain concrete solutions, e.g. the appointment of a Head of Foreign Service or the appointment of a Deputy Ambassador for Administrative Affairs, but it is worth pointing out some concrete solutions involved. I hope that this is the nature of the discussion. In the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the opinion of the government, this law in its present form will serve Polish diplomacy well, it will serve the foreign service well, it will serve the Polish state well, anyone who will rule in the future. I therefore recommend that the High House adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u35	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. Or else? I'm voting for you, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I will refer to the question raised by the Senator rapporteur. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I did not really take over the proposals for amendments. They were, in effect, responding to the demands of the change of the articles that the Senators of the majority had made. Well, there was criticism of individual articles, but the substantive changes were no longer proposed. It was proposed only to reject the law in its entirety. Minister, I have a question. In the justification in the Seym printing we have this information: Today's legal status is functioning in the current organisational and functional form for almost two decades, i.e. since 10 May 2002, when the Foreign Service Act of 27 July 2001 entered into force, it was the result of a hybrid consisting of elements of the diplomatic and consulary service rooted systemically in the times of the Polish People's Republic and various attempts to interfere with the transformation process without affecting the Polish People's Republic's legacy. The solutions derived from the Polish People's Republic make the political and official factors connected. So that by introducing a new law on foreign service, we sort of change these solutions, which are the origins of the Polish People's Republic. In the meantime, Senator rapporteur, Senator Klich said that we are only in the process of introducing solutions from the Polish People's Republic. If the Minister could refer to this substantively, tell us what solutions in the Foreign Service Act we are changing, which were so de facto from the Polish People's Republic... Because, as I understand it, it is not true that we are only introducing such solutions now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u37	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Here's the key issue... This argument by the rapporteur I think rather of it as an argument of a journalistic nature. It's about talking about this neo-communist nomenclature. We have assumed that the situation in which a certain type of group is formed at any state office, which in principle does not allow for any change, is not open to new people... Solutions on whether to grant new diplomatic degrees or even admit people to work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are covered by very detailed procedures which in principle guarantee that decisions on employment, admission of new members of foreign service largely rest on people who have their careers... At the moment, they are not even people who started their careers in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Unfortunately, when they came to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they were still very much in touch with the people who started these careers at such a time. Hence the need for this fundamental change. Here we are thinking, first of all, of the opening of an additional path, which is also carried out by the diplomatic academy, which I would like to emphasise once again, opening it to workers admitted from outside... And I think that is a fundamental issue. The second point is the introduction of the head of foreign service, a position separate from the director-general of the office, because it also caused... If one body, one office, is responsible for the management of the current central government, as well as for all personnel matters, from the lowest posts on each post to the ambassador's position, because such elements in the current system were in place, this leads in fact to a situation where there may be some doubt as to whether this hierarchical arrangement is appropriate. We are introducing a change which aims above all to make a clear distinction between a political, democratic and a professional, official factor. And I think that the last country to which this structure could be compared is the Polish People's Republic because everything was subject to the Communist Party there. Here we introduce the principle that the fundamental part of diplomats, professional diplomats, will be backed up by clear requirements of apoliticity, which even here, as I hear, raise controversy. It's about serving as a trade union. I think the introduction of these factors will make us have a really good, professional diplomatic corps.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not gonna ask you any more questions about the head of foreign service. I think you've completely explained that. And you even convinced me, and Senator Klich... There are specific questions about the provisions of the Act which, I think, should be clarified so that it can enter into force and be applied in a fluid manner, so that I define it, i.e. transitional provisions. As for the material records themselves, there are no comments. Rather, we should ask why this bill appears so late, but that is another matter. Question one, about citizenship. I am in favour of some state functions being performed only by Polish citizens, simply because of loyalty issues. So for me, this breach with the ambassadors you've quoted here is not so obvious. Just think about it. But there's another breach here. Namely, a national employee may be a person who holds the nationality of Polish Art. 20. Why not just Polish citizenship? If there are exceptions, you have to justify it. I would ask for a justification in terms of material regulations. Oh, there's one more thing about the transitional provision. Namely people who at the moment in good faith... Well, they have other citizenship because that's what the law allowed, and now they have a year to get rid of that citizenship. But here it is used: proof of the cessation of citizenship of a foreign state. The question is whether such evidence is always available. Please note that a declaration of will can always be made: "I will not act as a citizen of another country, I will not exercise these responsibilities and powers.' This will be a declaration of will directed towards our country. And a declaration of will towards another country, of the type of non-nationality of a foreign country, can also be made, but the question is whether it is always the case that a foreign country, firstly, wants to, and secondly, must confirm it. Because here's the proof that the citizenship of a foreign state has ceased. Is this the only possible way out of this current state when you resign from foreign citizenship? It's not so obvious to me. I suspect that there may be situations where a foreign state simply to get rid of, in quotes, of a good Polish diplomat, but the citizen of this country will not wish to submit such proof, or situations where there will be no legal path at all to renounce citizenship. [[Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] If possible, this is the third question on issues related to the transmission of documentation to IPN. I understand there's never been a path like this before. Well, it's a good thing that path came along, but I don't know if 60 days is enough to do it. Isn't this time too short? 'Cause that kind of timeline... Well, since we haven't done it in 30 years. Maybe not for 30 years, because the IPN is younger, but for several years It doesn't matter if it's 60 days or six months. It has to be done well, not quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I answer the first question, which is the question of citizenship. We assumed that in the case of... In fact, different situations are possible. Our employee, diplomat, in some ways also a professional diplomat, in theory can be a citizen of Poland and another country, and yet remain completely, 100% loyal to Poland. However, given that in the case of professional diplomats, the examination procedure is much less detailed, to a much lesser extent based on joint decisions of several key state bodies, it is necessary to introduce here a general principle that no dual citizenship is possible. In the case of ambassadors, we assume that the detail of the procedure to check and the need to make a political decision to present the candidacy to the President... The president then decides to appoint such an ambassador. And yet we are introducing an additional body in the form of a convention, which will also analyse all potential arguments for and against. So that here we can afford to introduce some kind of apostasy. This checking procedure will guarantee our safety. Even if a person has dual citizenship, we will be able to see if he or she is guided by double loyalty. Well, from experience so far, this kind of thing happens. Hence the decision to keep it. As far as domestic workers are concerned, here we have assumed that domestic workers, and therefore workers who are employed on the basis of appointments to perform the duties of support staff members, are persons for whom a slightly milder criteria can be applied than to diplomats. Well, these people, in principle, don't represent you outside, they're just ancillary staff. If we are dealing with any access to classified information, then, of course, these persons undergo a normal examination procedure. If the verification procedure shows that there are doubts, they simply will not be given a security clearance. That's from the Secret Information Protection Act. Therefore, we considered that this additional requirement in the form of exclusive Polish citizenship is not necessary in this case. Although I do realize that you can argue about it. If the practice of applying this law induces us to think about it It's not out of the question. We will re-examine these issues. But it all has to work. In time, we'll see what it looks like in practice. It's about getting rid of citizenship. Here, Mr. Senator, we assume that because of the different laws in force in different countries, it is impossible to identify one document or one action that a person would have to do. And that's why it's a general term. If in the jurisdiction of a given country... If we establish, on the basis of our analysis of the laws of a given country, that it is enough, for example. a declaration of surrender of citizenship itself that no additional proof is required, that will mean that the person in question resigned. At most, it will be necessary to demonstrate that this statement has been made in an effective manner, that e.g. it has reached the administrative authorities of the country concerned. It is about ensuring that this person does not actually have any other nationality, that another country's passport has been issued. It is impossible to introduce a more casuistic description into this kind of regulation. Well, we could be in a situation where we didn't anticipate a procedure. There are almost 200 countries in the world, so we are simply not able to write it down in the act of statutory rank. However, the interpretation of what is proof of resignation or the cessation of citizenship of the meaning of the large - No, he can walk here. Not only does it mean giving up, but it can be very wide about denying citizenship. I think it's gonna work. As regards the matter of handing over the file to the Institute of National Remembrance, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this provision has been clarified in the course of Parliament's work by adding this wording. This has been changed, we indicate here that the files are transferred to the IPN. This means that if the Minister for Foreign Affairs... The calendar for this bill is as follows: after its adoption by the Sejm, then the President's signature and the announcement in the Official Journal of the Laws must be 3 months until it enters into force, and then there are still 60 days to pass the file at the disposal of the IPN. In our view, this is a sufficient time for this commitment to be fulfilled. But, of course, we will work here with the Institute of National Remembrance to ensure that this procedure is carried out in an efficient manner, so that all requirements and requirements are respected from the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and requirements from the point of view of the IPN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. I, too, will allow me to ask the Minister a question. To be honest, I thank Senator Czerwiński for paying attention to this matter which the Minister has already explained to us here today. Minister, I have a question about how many ambassadors of the Republic of Poland have foreign citizenship and what citizenship they are. And, Minister, what arguments have these senators used, men or women, who hold such an honorary position, what is the position of ambassador of the brightest Republic? What is the argument for such a man? Because the fact that you do not see this sanctity and you recognize that the driver should be required to have Polish citizenship, and rightly so, but it should not be required of the Ambassador of the Brightest Republic of Poland... I am curious, because, certainly, by calling such ambassadors, you asked the question, what is the reason why you do not wish to renounce the two citizenships that you have besides Polish. Are these emotional reasons, love for Britain or the United States, or are these material reasons? Because having a citizenship involves some material consequences that are beneficial for such a person. Do these persons justify the maintenance of these citizenships in the course of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs procedure? And yet the questions are: why do you not demand this, why are you here so liberal? And another question related to what a proper debate on the personal use of the former period: what is the average age, Minister, of the diplomatic service today? Because, if we accept 1989 as the date of the fall of the Polish People's Republic, someone who was 20 in 1989, today, how easily to count, is already a man for whom retirement is quite a real prospect. So how many people are really working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and still working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Polish People's Republic? And how old are these people? Please note that if someone was important at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1989, he was probably not 20 years old. Well, he must have been at least 25 or 30 years old. So how many people are there? Just so we know what the scale of the phenomenon is, too. Because time flows and what else was Poland in 1991, and what else is Poland in 2021. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, referring to the question of whether we demand it... or to the question of why someone does not want to renounce citizenship, I answer: we do not demand it, because the provisions of the present law do not introduce such an obligation. We don't have a legal basis to demand that. Of course, we can ask that in an individual interview, but the law does not introduce such a requirement. And it never introduced him. And we're not going to introduce him to the ambassadors now, for the reasons I've been talking about. Because there may be situations that during the procedure, this very detailed checking procedure, which includes much more than merely checking the candidate by the service, but also during the political procedure, which is inherently connected with the appointment of anyone to represent the Republic of Poland, these issues are explained. As to how many senators are there... ambassadors and what ambassadors are with double citizenship, I would not want to mislead your marshal, and therefore I will answer this question in writing. Similarly to the question of the average age in the Ministry or the number of people who started their career before 1989, because here, of course, precision is required. We will give this reply in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u45	Thank you. I exactly... the intention of my question was not a political intention, just, let's call it statistical. It was about knowing the scale of the problem. Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am asking because, in the course of the application of this law, it should be clear how the provisions resulting from it should be applied. It is good that you reassured me, as regards this proof of the cessation of citizenship of a foreign state, that there may be an effective declaration of will, because it would be wrong if a third party, other than the Polish state and a diplomatic worker, could interfere with this process, whether by failing to do so. 'Cause, for example, there are no relevant provisions Or even showing bad will. As for these 60 days, I understand that it's just that this archive will be available, but it won't be physically transferred. Because that's the worst thing that can happen when it comes to archival issues, that you're moving the archives from one place to another. As the archivists explained to me, this is the most sensitive moment. Physically, I understand, this archive, at least for now, will remain available, but it will not be transported, it will not be decompleted, so to speak. But I have one more question, which is kind of unrelated to the previous ones. There's a question of diplomatic secrecy. She's defined in the article. Point 7, paragraph 12, but this is a new legal institution. This means that we will have to learn to apply it, mainly the state of course. Please note that this definition, as I have already noted, is too narrow: it means information with which a member of the foreign service has become familiar with his duties. But he may have information that he hasn't read, and it's in his possession, because he just didn't read any document or information. Is it a secret, or isn't it? He may not be careful with the information that is addressed to him and which he has not yet read. That's too narrow a definition for me. Minister, wouldn't it be safer just to... Because there are certain consequences to keeping this secret. The question is whether you should simply refer to the law here, i.e. create such a category, but as regards proceedings in cases not governed by this law, refer to the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information. Then it would be much easier to apply in practice this, as I say, new institution, which is first created.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as far as archives are concerned, this expression was deliberately added that the files were available just to give much greater freedom. I will say absolutely honestly that I do not know how this will ultimately be regulated, because it depends primarily on resources, possibilities, also on the will and will of the IPN. Because we assume that as far as these archive files are concerned, which we want to put at the disposal of the IPN, the IPN should decide in what form they will be available to it. That is why such a term was introduced, hence this additional wording. I believe that in the course of a direct consultation between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the head of the Institute of National Remembrance, it will develop what it will look like in practice. As for the issue of diplomatic secrecy and the detailed definition of what information is covered by it, I can actually agree to a certain extent that there may be situations in which... Well, as the senator mentioned, there may be a situation that someone will try to defend themselves in such a way, although I think it would be rather desperate, because at the same time such a person would admit that he violates his basic obligations as a worker and does not read the documents in which possession comes into being. And if there were a breach of the rules on the circulation of documents, other types of legislation, including disciplinary responsibility, would also be involved. I think that this wording should include a major majority, 99.99% the situations we will be dealing with. Because it's hard for me to imagine a situation in which someone, without knowing the information, simply gives it to someone without knowing what's there, because it just wouldn't have a more rational justification, although of course different situations happen. And I think that if there is a situation in which this regulation is not sufficient, then either we can amend it in the course of legislative work, or we can accept, as the senator points out, perhaps through a greater connection and proper application of the provisions of the Act on the protection of classified information. I think this introduction of a new category of mystery will also show... After the first few months of the law, we will be able to see how these rules work in practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u50	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about this cesarean in the form of sixty-five years of age. Well, what it's going to look like in practice, if it's for example. the will to appoint a representative of the Republic of Poland in a third country of a person who, suppose, in 3 months' time will be 65 years old? Will she have to apply immediately to the Foreign Minister for an extension of this possibility by agreeing to submit to all the procedures relating to appointment and entry into the facility? I don't have any clarity about that. And then there's the second line. I'd like to ask the Minister... You referred to this as Marshal Kaminski, as if before me in the queue waiting for questions to be asked. I'd ask for this information to be extended. I am talking about people who are presently in the Polish diplomatic service and who have not only Polish citizenship, so let us put it. This is not only about embassy positions and representative offices with international organisations, but also about those who have diplomatic status. I'm not talking about the consular corps, I'm not talking about the embassy staff, because the auxiliary staff could be... I mean, diplomats, people who have diplomatic status, they're not in the consular corps. Please inform me how many such persons with this status currently have more than one Polish citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Will the Minister answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u52	Yes, of course. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Senator, with regard to the first question, first of all, I would like to point out that this regulation in the article. 4 regarding the employment relationship in the foreign service, does not apply to ambassadors. It's, I think, pretty important. It is also worth noting that if we are talking about the appointment of ambassador or head of the institution, this regulation is not applicable. This applies to foreign servants, i.e. above all professional diplomats. About that deadline... We may also have a situation where a person at 64 years of age will be assigned as a professional diplomat to an institution. The provision states that six months before the age of sixty-five, such a person may apply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to exclude the application of this provision to him. This term will also be used... Whether someone is going to the facility or not, this term is the same for everyone. Thus, at the age of 64 and 6 months, the person concerned may submit such an application. [[I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal.]] [[You're welcome...]] And as for the second point, we will give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u53	But the senator would like to ask, so please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u54	Thank you very much for these explanations, Minister. And if there's a person who's legitimizing a huge cultural achievement and would embrace... I'll admit that I don't know if the heads of cultural institutes are subject to these regulations. Suppose there is a person who is 64 years of age and 10 months old, that is, in two months' time he will finish this age, is an outstanding expert on the issues of a given country and would be an ideal candidate, for example. at the Director of the Institute in a third country and is not in the foreign service in the current structure. What will be the procedure for dealing with such a person? She could represent Poland very well or carry out activities in this area, in which she is an outstanding specialist and has a huge accomplishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u55	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u56	Yeah, I'll explain. The director of the Polish Institute is in our structure the head of the institution and therefore corresponds to the role of ambassador. And here the same rules apply. This person is excluded from the application of this provision. If this person were already in diplomacy... I would like to clarify this because we can also have a situation where people are currently employed at this age. Here, in turn, the provision of the article. 80, the transitional provision, states that 3 months after the entry into force of the Act, this employment relationship expires, but it is possible to apply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an extension within 2 months of the date of entry into force of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome... [[Senator's voice:]] You're welcome. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u58	Grzegorz Czelej. Minister, I have a question. Does the bill change the status of people who have the title of ambassador? If so, I'd like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u59	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u60	Thank you. Mr. Senator, the status of these people is changing because we assume that the highest degree in foreign service is going to be the rank of Minister of Plenipotentiary. The Ambassador will act as head of the facility, the title of ambassador will be linked to the function of head of the facility. This assumption is based on this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u61	Thank you, Minister. Now you're very welcome, Senator Alexander Swede. I apologize for the misunderstanding with the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm sorry again.]] Minister, to a large extent, two issues that were raised at the committee's meeting and which were the subject of accusations directed towards the law have already been clarified by the Minister. After sixty-five years of age, with the agreement of the Foreign Minister, it will be possible to work in foreign service. And as far as trade unions are concerned, of course, membership in trade unions is possible, but you cannot be a functional person. I have three more specific questions. How long will the head of foreign service be appointed? What will be the limit for those who are part of the foreign service? Will it be possible to appeal against a decision refusing to grant a diplomatic degree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm listening, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as far as the appointment of the Head of Foreign Services is concerned, the bill does not specify the term of office. We assume that he is a subordinate to the Foreign Minister. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should have full authority in this regard in order to make a possible change, regardless of the issue of cadence. We do not want to create an internal body in the foreign service, which would be independent, because this independence would actually disrupt the proper hierarchical system and could come to what the critics of the law wrongly pointed out, that is to say, to the independence of this office, and that is not the intention here. With regard to the limit of persons, the law does not provide for such a limit. We don't see the need. We believe that staff shortages will naturally be supplemented, that foreign service will grow when needed, and that it will reduce naturally if we are faced with overemployment. In general, the state administration... We do not foresee such restrictions here. The third question was... I'm sorry, I don't think I've had time to write this down. [[Will it be possible to appeal against a decision refusing to grant a diplomatic degree?]] Will it be possible to appeal the decision? I'm about to reach out to a specific recipe. [[Then I'll ask for a written reply.]] The entire procedure concerning the way in which the diplomatic degree is given shall be permitted to be put in writing. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u65	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Marcin Bosacki will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u66	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to express my strong surprise at the absence of a law in the Chamber during the examination, which, according to the government itself, is crucial for the future fate of Polish diplomacy and foreign policy, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Rau. I don't know why he orphaned that bill in the Senate. Did he do it because after six months of office he doesn't feel competent to defend it, and he sends his deputy with 14 months of experience both in this position and in the diplomacy at all? Or is it because this law cannot be defended because it is a law so tragically evil? The way it is bad and sloppy, shows the fact that e.g. There's no chapter in it. 3. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the government of PiS-owski and the Sejm of PiS-owski, considering this project in extraordinarily fast mode, for a few days, skipped chapter 3. There's Chapter 2 and then there's Chapter 4. As a live one, it is very well, very carefully prepared and very careful legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is intended to amend the 2001 Act, which, although of course, has been corrected, as such basic acts organizing the Polish State have served well for 2 decades. About that policy bill, PiS Czesław Bielecki said that it was an expression of consensus to improve the state. And this consensus is today broken by the PiS, dismantled, and this bill will be terminated. Poland will lose professional, responsible for many successes of Polish foreign policy foreign service, professional diplomacy. The fact that for 26 years, until 2015, 2016 was built in Poland and then there was a class of state officials, not party officials, especially in diplomacy, was one of the sources of success of good Polish politics and Polish foreign policy. It was a Western standard. In the countries of Western democracy, both in North America and in Europe, it is standard that high offices can be reached by professional officials who go through all levels of their careers and at the end of their career, for example. Deputy ministers, heads of departments or ambassadors. This law of this kind, appropriate to the mature democracies of the West, ends. It ends, for example. in such a way that a professional diplomat will not be able, without leaving the foreign service, without giving up the title and position of being a professional, to become an ambassador of the political ambassador. This is a solution without any similar patterns, examples in the civilized world of the West. Of course, in other political cultures, in the East, but also in the East. in Latin America, such solutions are applied, but not in the Western culture, which is our model to which we belong and which we should build more and more. So what is the purpose of this bill? 'Cause this bill doesn't seem like it. It's very coherent. She is an absolutely coherent legislative act to dismantle the structures of the Polish state, in this case the structure of professional diplomacy based on professionals, and to transform this structure of the Polish state, as PiS has done for the last 5 years, into the structure of the country which serves one party and is manually controlled by the authorities of this party. That's what this bill is for. It turns a country serving its citizens and a state of affairs into a country serving the interests of one party. This is to be served by e.g. establishing whether or not someone will work after sixty-five years of age. If all the service is party, political, then if anybody comes any closer. to this sixty-five-year-old, he's gonna try. Not for professional reasons, but for precisely this reason. It's the way to do it so that he doesn't screw up his political superiors so he can get an extension, he's gonna try not to screw up with anything political. The same is intended to be done by an absolutely scandalous article about the possibility of removing a diplomat from his post after 3 months of absence, e.g. because of a longer maternity leave. Such laws violate the constitution, violate workers' rights. Both the National Commission and the Works Committee at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote about the infringement of trade union matters. They also violate human rights, violate women's rights, violate parental rights. This bill also causes a huge mess. It deliberately creates competition and introduces structurally planned conflicting elements of competition between the various elements of the state structure. For here will be the Foreign Minister, will be the Head of Foreign Service and will be the Director-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the moment, in the PiS-Polish model operating in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Director General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knows what everyone who is engaged in Polish diplomacy has much more to say than the Minister, because it depends on who has the so-called. Shorter ear and faster phone call to the seat of the ruling party. In this model there will be 3 people who will compete with each other. The same will be true in the institutions. If we dismantle the system in which the ambassador of the Republic is responsible for all the diplomacy and actions of the Polish state in a given country, so that he will have to ask his deputy whether he can spend money on diplomatic reception, or not, it will of course be a system in which someone else, someone on top, will decide. And who will be number one in a given facility, whether the ambassador or his deputy for administrative matters, will decide which one of them will have access to the higher situated telephone in Nowogrodzka, as it was until 1989, when the person who had access to the phone of someone above in KC PZPR counted. This is the return of the party state which PiS unfortunately offers us. Of course, this law is only the culmination of the process, which is already 5.5 years old, the process of creating in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also in other structures of the state, party structures instead of professional, professional, state structures. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as you know very well, this comes down to what he said or revealed six months ago, the outgoing Foreign Minister Jacek Chaputowicz. Well, he said that in the head of the Foreign Ministry there is no longer any man who knows about diplomacy, who has ever worked in foreign service, who was a diplomat, because they are party nominates themselves. The Diplomat Academy was mentioned here. And here I will say again: the Academy of Diplomats, under various forms, the independent Republic built, as a professional forge of professional personnel, from the beginning of the 1990s until 2015, 2016. And who's the head of the Diplomat Academy right now? The lady who got... Never mind the names, because it's a model, a model of party nomination, not professionalism. The lady who got her first diploma in her life three days before she became head of the Diplomat Academy. Three days earlier. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Can I finish? So this is the model that you are now proposing for all Polish diplomacy and Polish foreign policy, the party model. I'm convinced... I want to declare this on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, but I am convinced that the whole democratic majority in the Senate will reject this corrupting state law because unlike the Sejm, which is also party, the Senate of the Republic of Poland cares about the state, not about the interests of this party or other party. And that's why I declare this bill to be rejected in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u67	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! When I was in Kiev a few years ago, my friend, Prime Minister Jaceniuk, asked me to explain to him how it is possible that in Poland, which is a member of the European Union and such a serious and respected member of this organization, the civil service that we have been building over the years, this civil service independent of the state, this corps of civil servants serving every government, because the purpose of this corps is to serve the state. He invited me to a group that discussed among themselves, and said: "Tell us, Bogdan, how is it possible that the PiS government is eliminating this apolitical tool, which is the civilian corps, and from us, a country that only wants to associate with the European Union, is expected to create such a corps? How is that possible? To be honest, I did not have the answer to this question, because for many years this purpose, which we have been pursuing, was to create just such an apolitical service, such officials as would serve the State, not parties who would be loyal to the State and not to the current rulers whose loyalty to this State would be at a price, not loyalty to this or another minister. This question of Jaceniuk, then tell us: why is this happening in the Polish country?, it is a question that sounds to me in my ears until today. I must say that what the government has submitted is the next installment of this process, which has been taking place in Poland in recent years, and whose name is: Playing the party nomenclature wherever possible. It seemed to us after 1989, even before the civil service corps was formed, that the time would never return when the nomenclature would decide that no longer any Jan Kowalski would perform public functions because of connections, because of family arrangements or because he was a husband, son, father, wife, mother or daughter of some prominent politician. They're back. And they come back in this bill through the wide open door, i.e. Party nomenclature thanks to this act returns widely open door to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You can say even more: this law opens the door to the reconstruction of the party nomenclature in the foreign service corps. Because it's always, ladies and gentlemen, a dilemma: loyalty or professionalism? This law stands for loyalty, but misunderstood because it stands for party loyalty. Because the functions of ambassadors who do not have to be diplomats who do not have to be professionals can be appointed either those who lose their importance in national political life, or lose their positions, or those whose promoters will have a lot to say about staff policy, not necessarily prepared or sometimes not prepared at all. Yet the role of the modern ambassador is much more demanding than 20 years ago. The modern ambassador needs to know, practically speaking, about everything. After all, being an ambassador in Europe, he must know the structure of the European Union, he must know the rules of this organisation, he must know who is responsible for what, after all, he must have personal connections in the country of destination. In these United States, he needs to know what Brookings Institution means, what CSIS means, what Carnegie Endowment means, and he needs to know what people are most influential when it comes to accessing members of the administration of one or the other President of the United States. He must know very well in every European country that people have a lot to say in business environments, with whom to talk, etc. It's not something you can learn by being an ambassador. Conversely: when you include the role of ambassador, you need to have such knowledge, it must be acquired earlier. Therefore, breaking this communication between the diplomatic corps and the ambassadors is a fundamental sin of this law. This will also result in many dramatic consequences on the spot, not just protocol ones, because people of the right rank contact each other at the right level. This will hinder contacts with other ambassadors in the target countries. This is also an action against a trend that does not occur everywhere, I must say, but which is taking place in most European countries. Let's give you a French example. In France, political nominations are relatively rare, even rarer, than they were 20 or 30 years ago. The professionalisation of ambassador positions in the French Republic takes place from year to year. And when it is just as it happened recently that the writer who favored President Macron Philippe Besson was appointed by him as the Consul General in Los Angeles, it causes an immediate decision, an immediate reaction of the Council of State. What did the State Council do? It annulled the 2018 Decree, which granted the President of the Republic the possibility to appoint as 22 consuls general at his own discretion, at his own unprofessional key. This decision of the Council of the State of the French Republic very precisely reflects the trend towards which the authors of this law are going against the current. Senator, I think Senator Kochan has asked me as rapporteur what this bill is for. She's supposed to serve. I'm gonna say it again. Reconstructing the party nomenclature abroad. She's supposed to serve as ambassadors not to be the most outstanding diplomats, but the most loyal of loyal party activists. That's what this bill is about. That is why we are rebelling against this law, and that is why we believe that it is the completion of this process of degradation of Polish diplomacy, which unfortunately we have had to talk about in this House several times already. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u70	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, at a cosmic rate, the Foreign Service Act was passed to the Sejm. Although the Minister praised that a point by point was read, that for 10 hours, but... Minister, a common reading, a general reading took place because Members did not have time to read this document earlier. If this quality of work is judged highly by the Minister, then I understand why we are dealing with such a weak bill. High Izbo, the result of these hasty works is a law establishing very controversial solutions, among others. the creation of a new function of the Head of Foreign Service of the Office which duplicates the work of the Director-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also changes the rules for recruitment of staff for foreign service and changes in the structure of diplomatic degrees, the highest degree being the rank of Minister of Plenipotentiary. In this system-changing Foreign Service Act, the title ambassador will be awarded by the Foreign Minister only for the duration of the service in the institution, without reference to professional achievements in diplomacy or length of work and experience, making political ambassadors outside the diplomatic corps. An incentive for professional development. Isn't that right? The question is what diplomats will represent Poland's interests and what interests it will be. Where is there room for the predictability of your professional career, which you spoke so loudly about? According to the Act, members of the foreign service will not be able to perform their duties in trade unions, by which the act deprives them of their subjectivity, their right to self-realization, and also contradicts the article. 59 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Convention No 151 of the International Labour Organisation. Women, their decision to have children, maternity leave or care for older parents can also be discriminated against. Under the motto of rejuvenation of staff, the employment relationship in the foreign service is to expire on the date on which the person is 65 years old and in the case of the elderly Within 3 months of the entry into force of the Act. While a person may ask the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to exclude the application of this provision in its case, there is no appeal against the decision to be taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. These actions are unconstitutional, once again the government discriminates against people because of their age. Referring to the alleged hermeticity of the foreign service, the Act introduced a new category, a category of foreign worker. This enables employment in the institution of a person who has so far been outside the foreign service. A candidate must meet much less requirements than a professional diplomat, must have Polish citizenship, a middle education, know one, that's enough A foreign language, have a physical and mental ability to work under special conditions and legitimize yourself with impunity. Moreover, foreign workers will not have to complete the diplomatic/consular application conducted by the Academy of Diplomatics, and in practice politically ambitious in three years' time, with such low demands, can gain enough experience for the current government to advance to a very responsible new position as Head of Foreign Service. For what years do we remember such solutions? High Izbo, the proposed changes threaten a very low level of Polish diplomacy, and so already visible in many Polish institutions. According to the Act, candidates for ambassador positions are to be given an opinion in a secret manner of the newly formed Convention of the Foreign Service, composed of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Head of Foreign Service, representatives of the President's Office and the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, and the protocol containing the final decision will be a document, attention, secret. In addition, the president will be able to appoint special ambassadors to carry out foreign policy tasks. The diplomat will be able to be transferred to the President's Office, and about whether or not he will, the decision will be made... who? Head of Foreign Affairs at the President's request. The duration of this delegation will not be longer than 5 years, and the diplomat will retain all the existing rights and, after the delegation has ended, the Head of Foreign Services will have to offer such person employment in at least an equivalent position. Does this mean that this is the only place where there's a career opportunity, and that's what the Minister meant? According to the law, you don't need to be a professional diplomat to become head of foreign service. A three-year placement in a managerial position related to international relations will suffice. Even though the Foreign Service Chief has very responsible tasks under the Act. It must ensure compliance with foreign service rules, give diplomatic degrees, indicate criteria for the assessment of foreign service members, arbitraryly direct human resources management process, prepare draft legal acts concerning foreign service, organise training, and, attention, direct the diplomatic Academy and be the only authority empowered to direct candidates to the academy. Its task is also to monitor and supervise the use of funds for the remuneration of members of the Foreign Service corps. As you can see, the head of foreign service has power. What power does the Foreign Minister have? The Head of Foreign Service has also been entrusted with modernising the training system within the framework of the Academy of Diplomat Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is a pity that in 2016 the government of PiS closed the Polish Institute of Diplomacy, destroying its long-term achievements, the Institute, which offered specialized training on the basis of agreements with foreign partners, including NATO, and outstanding Polish lecturers. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, according to the authors of the law, the purpose of the amendment is to adapt diplomacy to modern conditions and challenges. Why, then, should professionalism, continuity, stability and unity of the foreign service be removed, and why is there no legal guarantee against internal political turmoil? However, there is much evidence that it is really about extreme politicisation of diplomacy, its zhierarchization and, above all, the introduction of new, albeit unprepared workers, ensuring absolute loyalty to the PiS. The government's proposed location of ambassadors outside the corps of diplomats means that the dignity associated with this position has been devalued to the level of a private political officer. This makes it impossible for professional diplomats to become ambassadors. Their career is to be crowned by the rank of Minister of Plenipotentiary. This provision is extremely devoid of character. It is also difficult not to notice that introducing a category of foreign worker and the possibility of giving a diplomatic degree without having to do a diplomatic/consular application or completing a diplomatic/consulary seminar will facilitate access to the diplomat's profession, which will greatly reduce its standards and prestige. The examples were just given by Senator Bosacki. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, in addition to these issues, the Act contains many formal errors, e.g. the definition of diplomatic secrecy, the undefined concepts of the basic amount of the foreign allowance, the basic school and the non-precisely formulated transitional provisions. It also contains numerous editorial errors, even such as incorrect numbering of its chapters. Is the sloppyness of the bill foretelling greater sloppy conduct of foreign policy? In this situation, the only responsible decision we can make is to reject the bill that was sent to the Senate on the knee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u71	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Very briefly, because most of my speech will be written. I cannot ignore what Minister Jabłoński said, who called on us not to resort to political matters so as not to politicalise this debate. Minister, I can honestly say that I have a short internship, more or less like you, and I can honestly say with full responsibility that you are the most political minister who is present on this speaker. That's the kind of policy-making I haven't met with any other minister, just to be clear. Because you're calling for no politics, and you're really doing it, and you're doing it in a very special way. You know, there's always going to be a political right, like you said. Well, we're all politicians. Even if I'm a partyless and independent senator, then in a way I'm politically involved, I'm a politician. And we can't escape that policy. But no longer to repeat all the arguments with which I agree, of course, with regard to my previous speakers, I will, of course, vote against this law, as if I would show so tangiblely what is the difference between this diplomacy... Or maybe not. You used a similar phrase... What is the difference between my truth and your truth? She's more or less like... I'll be right back. I as a former self-government officer with a 17-year internship on the Polish-German border... And I worked with our partners on the German side and I was in Berlin very often, of course, and above all in Brandenburg, where we have partner cities and this cooperation was really very high. I will say, Minister, yes: the difference between my and your diplomacy or ours and yours is the difference between the level of diplomacy cultivated on my border by Ambassador Przyłębski and the level of diplomacy cultivated by Ambassador Mark the Truth or Mr Andrzej Byrt. Who knows, who knows who lives on the border, who's dealt with these people, who knows what diplomacy was practiced there, and who's... You can see that by asking self-government. That is the difference between Mr Przyłębski and Mr Mark The truth as between your foreign policy and our foreign policy. Let it be defined in such categories. The rest of my allegations for this bill and part of my statement are in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u73	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the senator, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Many truths, many evils, have already been told about this law. Much has also been said at the committee meeting, which, as the Minister rightly pointed out, has been dealing with this law for a very long time. Therefore, I only want to focus on two things that, as a lawyer to me, are unacceptable as a policy. It's discriminatory. This law is also discriminatory in relation to 2 groups. And that's discrimination on grounds of age and discrimination on grounds of sex. Both types of discrimination in the light of the Constitution are unacceptable. First, I'm going to talk about gender discrimination. You know, it's gonna be about women. Well, the article refers to the dismissal of a professional diplomat in a foreign institution, when his absence Also justified or, in particular, justified - arising from the reasons set out in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of 3 will last longer than 3 months. He'll be able to be canceled. Who's mostly involved? This applies mainly to women who will be at risk of pregnancy or on maternity leave. Of course, during the committee's deliberations, the Minister argued that this is absolutely not the case, because these women will receive an allowance for the next six months. So what if the promotion to the next diplomatic degree, and hence the rise in wages, depends, among other things. From an internship in a foreign facility? Therefore, taking all these arguments into account, I suppose in a few years women will be systematically eliminated from work in foreign institutions. It's especially about women who want to be mothers. This is unacceptable. We know that the state has not consulted this law with this particular group of foreign service workers, because we have received signals from them in this case. This is also contrary to Article. 18 Constitution, which says that motherhood and parenthood are under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. And it seems that this government talks a lot about motherhood, parenting, families, children at different stages of development, including the unborn. It is a pity that, at the same time, you are proposing regulations that will eliminate women who want to become mothers and at the same time serve in diplomacy, work in foreign institutions. The second issue is discrimination based on age in relation to those aged sixty-five. The Labour Code prohibits age discrimination in Article. 183a §1. The introduction of a regulation that says that the employment relationship with a person who is over sixty-five years of age is non-constitutional and incompatible with all principles and documents Also those of an international nature that protect us from discrimination. It goes on, among other things. o Council Directive 2000/78/EC of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. Our Supreme Court has also repeatedly expressed its views on this subject, pointing out that the introduction of laws that automatically eliminate the employment relationship of particular groups of workers is a discriminatory measure for these groups of employees. In doing so, the legislator celebrates both the provisions of the Labour Code The ban on discrimination on grounds of age As well as the constitutional provisions. In its judgment of 26 September 2019, the Supreme Court stated that legislative action in this respect is unworthy of Article. 24, 30, 32 and 60 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I would like to take this away from the fact that the employee will be able to obtain the Minister's permission to continue serving. Of course, it will be an arbitrary, uncomplainable decision. The Act does not provide any criteria on the basis of which such consent is to be expressed. It is not a question of psychophysical predisposition, experience, fitness to work on a given job. It is to be expected that, as has been the case for all decisions made in recent years, these decisions will be made on the basis of a political criterion. And that's unacceptable. These regulations allow to get rid of experienced diplomats who have long served for Poland. This applies to people at the age of 65, that is, at the age when most people can still work boldly. Anyway, let's look at the Senate, let's look at the Sejm, let's look at the members of the government. Well, if we were to put out service relations or parliamentarians' mandates after they turned sixty-five, I guess we wouldn't be here much longer. Therefore, it is harmful. Harmful not only for Polish diplomatic service and Polish diplomacy I don't know what else could hurt her after your government. But it's also harmful to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Bosacki again.]] Senator Bosacki, 5 minutes, second appearance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Today's debate would not have been complete if it had not been for a certain thank you and a certain declaration which I am here to make. Because unfortunately I fear that after the rejection of this fatal act for the Polish state of the Polish law, PiS-owski Party Sejm will restore it and it will enter into force, without chapter 3 and disassembling Polish professional foreign service, disassembling Polish diplomacy. I would like to thank all these Polish diplomats who came to diplomacy absolutely clearly from 1989 to now and have participated in many great successes of Polish foreign policy these years, starting with establishing or guaranteeing the border in Odra and Nysa, through the entry of Poland into the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, and ending with a very ambitious European Eastern Partnership and Polish successful diplomatic interventions, e.g. during the Ukrainian Revolution. These successes of Polish foreign policy ended practically in 2016, when an old professional team of diplomats organized, already in the days of PiS, the NATO summit in Warsaw, for which some of those who organized it, like the then ambassador in the United States Ryszard Schnepf or the then ambassador at NATO Jacek Najder, were released shortly afterwards and left the service. You could name dozens of people like that. I would like to thank them all very much, because the successes of Polish foreign policy during this period are not only the successes of politicians, but also diplomats. And here's the declaration. After soon, I hope, the end of the worst governments after 1989, i.e. the PiS government, we will rebuild a professional foreign service. Diplomats, like members of the civil service, will not be afraid to tell the truth, as it was until 2015, to their political superiors. We will restore Western standards, which will allow the Polish state to return to international victory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u77	Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u78	One more thing, ma'am, that must sound in this room. Namely, just as there can be no doctor who has not completed his studies, an internship to treat patients effectively, just as there can be no academic teacher who does not have the appropriate title, proper preparation, as there can be no lumberjack who does not know how to cut down trees, as there can be no carpenter who does not know how to make tables and chairs out of this wood, neither will there be any diplomats in the future who will act as ambassadors without being diplomats. As for this, you can be sure, because as part of this restoration of the standard of professionalism in Polish diplomacy, we will ensure that everyone who wishes to perform a responsible role in the country meets the basic criteria. One of these criteria will be the criterion of higher education. Its fulfillment will be necessary to become an ambassador. How will our country be perceived, how will our country's image abroad be when the ambassador without a higher education is sent to the facility? What country is this? The hosts will ask. What country sends an ambassador without a higher education, an ambassador representing the country to the foreign office? Is it like this? They're gonna ask. That you can represent this country without having basic knowledge of the modern world? Such knowledge shall be acquired as a result of higher education. Higher education is designed to maximize human horizons, regardless of the field. The cardinal error of this law, which is the ability to appoint an ambassador without a higher education, will be corrected. In addition, placing the highest diplomat in the diplomatic corps higher than the ambassador because of the requirements that this law puts before diplomats, without putting them before the ambassador... How can it be that a diplomat needs to speak two languages and the ambassador doesn't? It's like the ambassador doesn't have one hand. It is as if he is deprived of an essential tool for communication with other ambassadors and with the authorities of the country in which he is ambassador. How will it be at the facility if it turns out that diplomats have a higher education and the ambassador doesn't know two languages and the ambassador doesn't? After all, diplomats will despise such an ambassador. On such contempt, Minister, you are condemning this bill of future ambassadors. As part of the repair that Senator Bosacki was talking about, we will make sure that the party nomenclature does not decide here. We will make sure that in the future it is professionalism that decides all nominations in our foreign service. We will make sure to pour out the muddy water you introduce into our foreign service, completely covering the borders of the foreign minister and the head of foreign service, the Director-General. It's the best way to swim in this muddy water, you know. And you mean, in such a muddy water, to conduct your own policies, above all personal. But politics is care. for the common good, in this case abroad, not for the self-interest and for the political formation. And that's gonna change, too. The dark water will be poured out and clear, clear, clear rules will be introduced that apply in every Western country. In the West, Minister, there is procedure and institution, not the free will of one or another in power. In the West, everything is based on transparent principles that are followed, not on the will of the minister, the head of foreign service or anyone else who decides on staff and foreign policy. This is your greatest sin, and this sin will be repaired after you lose your power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u79	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Godyla, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Komarnicki, Gromko, Gorgon-Komor, Hibner, Sekuła and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Yes, Minister. Your name has been mentioned here many times, so please in ad vocem mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! High Izbo! I'd like to start by thanking you, too. I would like to begin by thanking, first of all, those senators who actually had today. I prefer to discuss this law in substance. I have heard such statements especially in the first part when questions were asked. Mainly from the right side of the room. But I appreciate the fact that Marshal Kaminski asked such questions, too. This demonstrates the willingness to read the subject-matter, the willingness to examine what the Senate is going to adopt or to ask for rejection, the willingness to discuss these changes, which are extremely important for the whole state. At the same time, along with these thanks, I would like to express my growing surprise at the attitude of the rest of the senators, of whom, frankly, I expected to see the bill submitted to the High Sejm, which was January 13th, which was over a month ago... During the parliamentary debate, we were faced with a situation where the amendments or ideas proposed for changes to the law were more or less substantive... Yeah, well, it's been a lot of things with that substance. And I was convinced that the Senate will be much better prepared to work on this bill, and especially the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee will do so, which very often presents far-reaching demands on the direction of Polish foreign policy. Today, representatives, members of this committee, speaking in the plenary room... I was convinced that these substantive comments would be heard here today, since they did not want to be presented during the committee meeting. Contrary to what Senator Tyszkiewicz suggested here... I'm absolutely not running away from politics. I, to be honest, am glad that Senator Tyszkiewicz pointed out my political role in this process, because I am not giving up on it. I am a politician, I am a political function of democratic giving, I am fulfilling the mandate of a government that has been elected by the Sejm Once again, I would like to draw attention to this. We do not run away from politics, but at the same time we discuss substantive matters in the political process. And I very much regret that once again in the discussion there was a lack of substantive preparation, because politics can also be discussed in substance. I would like to draw attention to the issue which appeared during the committee meetings today during my speech, and yet you, Marshal Morawska-Stanecka, repeated this once again. So I have to correct it once again. It is a matter of appeal from a foreign employee who is absent for six months, which, as your Marshal pointed out, may be discriminatory in relation to pregnant women or to those on maternity leave or parental leave. Well, I'll tell you again what the reason is. There are facilities where we can afford this kind of absence from work. We have large facilities where we employ dozens of employees. There, the absence of one, two or three employees would not be a problem. But we also have facilities where the cast is several people. If for random reasons, for reasons not guilty, we have an employee on long-term leave Health, maternity, parenting, and therefore he cannot provide work, this institution simply cannot function. Principles of functionality of public administration, as well as key facilities such as foreign service... I think you are well aware that our human resources are less than many wealthier countries, with longer traditions. So that part of the facility is simply filled to a much smaller extent than we would like it to be. In this situation, it is necessary to introduce this solution, but in order not to be discriminatory, we introduce the principle that this foreign allowance, which is in principle only for persons on a foreign institution, will be extended to those 6 months. The point is to reverse these negative effects or minimize them. Moreover, as I stressed, this person who is in foreign service is not removed from it, is not fired from work, but, on the contrary, we will want to continue her employment after this random obstacle has disappeared. The next issue is retirement age, age 65. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is really a dispute here about the idea. Marshal Morawska-Stanecka said something that a person who is 65 could still work for a long time. I recall a lot of such arguments in the debate on reducing the retirement age, and I remember that you often had such arguments that a person at the age of 65 could still work for a long time. This is true, there are cases, but there are also cases where this age is considered the right frontier for retirement. This is the general regulation and we see no reason for it to be different in the case of foreign service. As I understand from this announcement, which was presented by Senator Bosacki and Senator Klich, this will all be reversed, cancelled, and this will also concern the retirement age issue. Well, that's for the voters to decide. It will be decided by the people who entrust us with state functions. Another point: you raised it here, Senator Jazłowiecka. I am very sorry that all the information that Senator Jazłowiecka has said or actually read... You can see that it was prepared in advance, because I was already referring to these issues in the preliminary part of the speech. I also think that if they were formulated as questions, I could answer the question and lead the senator out of error. [[There were a lot of questions.]] Mr. Marshal, are you... Senator, let me repeat once again: we do not prohibit union membership. I talked about this at the committee meeting, I talked about it today, I'm going to repeat it for the third time. Membership in a trade union and serving as a trade union is something else. The Civil Service Act has been in force for years, art. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 6 is valid, and no one questioned the constitutionality of this solution, and here it is exactly the same. I have just talked about maternity leave, referring to the issue raised by you by Marshal Moravian-Stanecka, as is the issue of retirement age. Next line. Senator Jazłowiecka pointed out that the employees would not have to finish the application run by the Academy of Diplomas, I explained that too. The diplomatic seminar will also be conducted by the Academy of Diplomats. We're introducing an extra route, but we're leaving what's left behind. We believe that this is insufficient, so we want to create an additional career path, an additional promotion path for employees who are ministry employees, are employed in institutions, but do not have a diplomatic degree because the Diploma Academy is simply, first, rather narrow, second, it is intended for people at the beginning of their career, those who are fresh after college. This is the idea of such professional schools, in principle professional ones, of course designed for people with appropriate qualifications. Finally, the question that Senator Bosacki referred to. I don't see him being with us, and I really regret it, but maybe he'll hear it later from the playback. To be honest, I'm a little surprised that Senator Bosacki is complaining about the functioning of diplomacy, the functioning of the Diplomat Academy. He spoke so disdainfully of your director Pilecka, who runs the Diplomat Academy, speaking of her, she won't even have her name on her lips. Consul Pilecka was employed in our diplomacy in 2007. She served at a post in Bulgaria, served at a post in Turkey, now serving at the Diplomat Academy. I think that Senator Bosacki, who in the past was made an ambassador in such a way that as a pro-government newspaper journalist he was hired as a press secretary of the Ministry and then immediately appointed as an ambassador in Canada... It's a political decision. As for the mechanism itself, I have no charge. It's the law of every foreign minister to... [[Mr. Marshal, will you allow the Minister to continue to answer our questions in this way? These are personal tours, personal trips... there's no room for them in the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u81	I don't see the Minister saying anything outrageous. You also allow yourself very personal, very harsh wordings, biased, offensive to the Polish government, so I see no reason why the Minister could not explain certain things. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's our duty to tell citizens the truth, so that's what we're doing.]] Then take care of yourself. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not an answer mode, it is a commentary to the debate.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And I'd appreciate it if you'd let me finish my speech. I'm referring to the point. Senator Bosacki pointed to political mode, while he was appointed in such a mode. I understand that was the decision of the Foreign Minister at the time. At the time when Law and Justice created the government in 2015, we called off Senator Bosacki in 2016 because we didn't think we had the right level of trust in him. And to this day we stand in this position that it was the right decision. And I think that this kind of mechanism, as far as the cast of ambassadors is concerned, was functioning in every normal state. Mr Klich finally mentioned that we could expose ambassadors to the fact that they would not be respected if they did not have a higher education, that they would not be treated as people in a proper way representing the state. Mr Senator, once again, I would like to point out that, in the current regulation, there is also no such requirement for ambassadors in the current law. I don't know if you realize that. The Lord has given a very fiery tirade that something like this is now being introduced, and so it is now. Moreover, in the past we had ambassadors without higher education. And I think that at least for one such person you are, especially on the left side of the room, convinced that it was one of the best ambassadors in Poland's history. It was Professor Władysław Bartoszewski. He was a professor, but technically he didn't have a higher education, which everyone knows very well. And if we had such a formal obstacle, Professor Bartoszewski could never be an ambassador. I do not want to judge the coincidence of political choices at the moment, because it is known that we are different, but such formal obstacles can cause people with excellent experience, with excellent skills, also from other industries, from other areas of life, cultural, economic, social Mr Sikorski also pointed out during the debate at the committee meeting that there was no question whether it was a master's degree or an education equivalent to a bachelor's degree. 'Cause, you know, like... There are other procedures in the UK. There's usually a bachelor degree, which is a baccalar. And that's exactly how it is. We allow it to be that kind of possibility. And let's hope this continues, because in this area, absolutely nothing changes here. And I am convinced that if you read the bill, Mr President, you would know that very well. Thank you very much. [[That's erystics on your part. You know that very well.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u83	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the law on the next additional annual financial provision for pensioners in 2021. The text of the Act is contained in print No 314 and the report of the Commission In print No 314 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I would like to present her position. The committee meeting took place on 10 February. Then we debated this and we were presented with a bill on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, bragging about this bill, has told us that pensioners and pensioners will receive additional benefits. In fact, indeed, it will be if, of course, this bill gets the majority in the Senate and then the President's signature. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that most of the comments to this law relate primarily to the way it works. I mean, you can't talk about a 14th retirement here. And I ask all your senators not to create such an empty mouth. As this is a one-off additional benefit. And I'd like to tell you. And the Minister also admitted it. That it is one-off and not for all. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a limiter: those who exceed the limit of PLN 2 000 900 will not receive this one-off additional benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, what is still very important here is the source of funding. Unfortunately, it won't come from the Social Insurance Fund. This benefit will be taken from the Solidarity Fund, which was created for people with disabilities. Moreover, this Solidarity Fund will borrow a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. Therefore, the committee, after discussion, accepted the amendments. The first proposal was to adopt a law without amendments. He didn't get the majority of the four senators voted in favour, 4 was against, no one abstained. But there have also been amendments tabled by me, which remove this limit of PLN 2 000 900, and also move financing so that this additional one-year one-off benefit is transferred from the Social Insurance Fund just as it should be. Because this is a precedent, the transfer of this money from the Solidarity Fund is, in my opinion, a dangerous precedent that can have a very bad impact on resources for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is as far as the bill and the work of the committee are concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Mr. Senator, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, it would be good if the Senate didn't come up with misleading information, especially since our citizens are waiting for this information. You have just stated that people whose income exceeds PLN 2 000 900 will not receive this benefit, commonly referred to as the 14th pension. Is that true? Are you maintaining this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u87	Yes. I'll give you an answer, Senator. The government of this law again divides the society, the pensioners, who, in my opinion, should receive this benefit, in accordance with this law. The government creates three groups here: the first group is those who will receive this one-off benefit in full; the second group will receive it in a gold-for-money arrangement if it exceeds that amount by some level; and the third group, which will not receive this benefit at all. And I'll tell you... For 9 million people who will receive this benefit, only 7 000 900 000 will receive this allowance in its entirety. [[A voice from the hall: 7,000 or 7 million? Because 7,000...]] [[Voice from the hall: Million.]] That's the answer to your question. So not all of them... [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, because it's a sentence...]] So not everyone gets that benefit. [[It's bigger...]] Three groups... [[Voice from the room: How much? $7,000?]] [[Voice from the room: 7 million.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Well, the senator has the right to make mistakes sometimes...]] [[Voice from the room: 7,000.]] [[If there are any doubts, the Minister will be speaking in a moment and the Minister will certainly explain it.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: 7 million exactly. But how much is... 7 million and...]] Ninety thousand. [[Voice from the room: Almost 8.]] 7,000 900...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u88	I'm sorry, I... Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal, I must, however... It's starting to get disturbing. I'm sorry. The first point, basically, about this last statement. Of course, it's seven... [[Millions.]] ...okay. 7 million 900 thousand. But using the word only... [[Yes.]] ...when the total sum is 9 million... So when will the word "age" be? What do you mean, $8 million $999,000? Sir... [[Okay, ……]] Mr. Senator, I'm talking now. [[You're welcome.]] 7 million 900 thousand is the principal percentage I don't want to calculate it accurately, but probably about 90%. The total sum of our pensioners. That's the first line. So that the word "only" here doesn't fit completely. As for the mistake of reading numbers, let's skip it. But my question is very clear. Because you said, if the income is over PLN 2,000 900, a month of course, the pensioner will not receive... That's not true. Such a pensioner will receive, but in the so-called. A gold-for-dollar trial. So a group of pensioners who will receive a benefit, but at a reduced amount, will be... If you add it to a group of retired people who will receive the full amount... It's gonna be a lot more than that. Now that you're trying to beat us a little bit with numbers here, tell me how many pensioners are receiving over PLN 2,000 900 at the moment. And then we'll see what the number is in relation to the total number. [[It's...]] That's why I'd ask you not to lie again. What else is the question of full benefit and what else is the question of receiving the benefit at all. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. I think everyone here understands. Let's see if you understand. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u89	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u90	So I'm gonna say it again. The government of this law makes three groups of pensioners and pensioners. The first group that gets the full benefit, the second group that still gets paid for it in gold and the third group who doesn't get it in the first place. You don't believe me? Ask the Minister. [[It's not a question of faith.]] But now, if you don't mind, I'll answer. I want to tell you... I'm here as the Senator rapporteur, but since you don't seem to understand... Because in fact, retired people need a complete change, a complete change. Why is this money... We're about to discuss another pension and pension valorization bill. Why aren't those amounts raised in valorization so that every month these retirees get... And there could be a higher value every year than the money in question. You don't want to do this. You don't want to do this. You like to divide and rule. I've tried not to speak politically, Mr. Senator has called me a little bit to such behavior. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the law after the adoption of these 3 amendments has been supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u91	Thank you very much. Wait a second, Mr. Senator. [[Good.]] You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have a question. Well, this issue has been largely developed by Senator Czerwiński. But in the explanatory memorandum of the law we have, I quote: In 2021 the eligible persons will be entitled to another additional annual cash benefit in the amount of... And then, first of all, the amount of the lowest pension in force from 1 March 2021... And here actually the full amount of this 14th pension... [[No, no...]] ...will receive 9,1 million recipients, 7,9 million, or nearly 8 million recipients... Second: the amount of the lowest pension applicable from 1 March 2021, less the amount of the difference between the amount of the basic benefit... And here we have 1.2 million recipients receiving a lower benefit due to the amount of the benefit received above PLN 2 000 900. So that it's not true... Because the senator said 7.9... But it sounded like 700,000, 900,000... that kind of values were falling somewhere. And I would like to ask if the amount of this additional benefit will be... will it be subject to deductions and executions? And what was the ratio of votes in the committee on the adoption of the law without amendments and on the proposed amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u93	I'll start at the end. I said that with regard to the adoption of the law without amendments, there were four votes in favour, four votes against, and no one abstained, and in the vote on the amendment, four votes in favour, three votes against, and one against the senator abstained. In the vote on the amendments, the first, second and third results were the same. Well, I said that... I was wrong, I slipped. It's 7 million 900 thousand. I confirm and thank you very much, senator, for your attention. Thank you very much. Was there another question from the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u94	Thank you very much. I have another question. You're welcome, Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u95	I have a question, Mr. Senator. Can you hear me? [[I can hear you, but I don't know if...]] Oh, now it's okay. I'm sorry. I have a question, Mr. Senator. What's the total cost... Maybe you said it, but I didn't hear it. What will be the cost of this 14th pension, of the benefits that our pensioners will receive? What's the total cost? And have you heard such voices that the 13th pension in the form of an additional benefit is very well perceived by the pensioners themselves? They say that once they get that kind of money, they can afford to buy some extra money, get some important life business, like buying coal or paying heating bills. Have you heard such voices? 'Cause, you know, like... They're coming to me. Pensioners are very pleased with the 13th pension, of this one-off but annual benefit, as well as with the 14th pension. Well, because of the pandemic, the retirees are also in a more difficult situation. Such support in the form of a higher amount paid once and not spread over many months is simply expected and very well perceived by them. As for the valorization of pensions, I think the Minister will speak on this issue, because this year it is record high. Besides, this point does not apply. I asked you about the overall amount, the cost of this benefit, and whether you received the senior voices I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u96	As far as the total amount is concerned, this amount did not fall at the committee meeting, if I remember correctly. According to my knowledge, this is about PLN 11 billion. Except this money isn't physically in the place where you wanted to withdraw it. Let me remind you that you wanted to withdraw them from the Solidarity Fund created for people with disabilities. It's not enough that the money isn't there. - No, you're taking money from people with disabilities. It is also a fund that borrows from the Demographic Reserve Fund, which also serves for something completely different. I think it's about 11 billion zlotys. I'd like to answer the second question now, Senator. I have had many discussions about this earlier additional benefit, which has already been paid annually. I also talked about this extra benefit that the government wants to pay this year. Let me just remind you that this witness we are discussing today is only due for this year, at least for the time being. I want to tell you and all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators that my conversations show that retired people would like to not pay their pension tax. Such a solution would make them more happy, would result in greater satisfaction among them, as well as a greater wealth of wallets. I think such a holistic solution should be a goal. All of us, because every one of us is going to be retired at some point, and it's going to happen to everyone. It seems to me that working on a comprehensive revision of the pension law would be far more appropriate than a one-off... Well, I don't want to say too much, but it's a one-time shot, and it's a small one, because it's the lowest national pension. [[Mr. Marshal, may I speak again?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u97	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u98	Yeah, you're right to notice... Well, I'm surprised you're... [[Mrs. Senator...]] Excuse me, can I have it now? [[Yeah, yeah, sorry about that.]] ...at the committee meeting, you didn't ask what the general budget cost was. This is PLN 11 billion 400 million, so the amount... [[So I wasn't wrong, Senator.]] Yeah, you're right. That's PLN 11 billion, $400 million. I have a question. Because you said it would be paid out of this Solidarity Fund and that it was done at the expense of people with disabilities. So what benefits for people with disabilities have been limited in order to pay this 14th pension? I'd like to know exactly what it is. And... Well, maybe that's it. Thank you for the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u99	These benefits for people with disabilities And I'm sure the senator knows that. They're not enough. And instead of what you used to talk about in the election campaign, to relieve those people, to help them, to support them, because that's what this fund was made for... Well, with this money, the state doesn't pay those benefits at higher altitudes, you just kept them at a level that's... When I talked to people with disabilities, they are outraged that they don't get any more, they can barely survive from the first to the first, and now the funds are being taken from this fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u100	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You, I would say, leitmotiv of his report from the committee meeting described as sharing society, well, there are three categories according to you and you listed them. Sir, this is the kind of statement that the government is taking something that's disabled, and it's handing it over to pensioners, that's the division of society and the attempt to expose one category of people in need to the other category of people. That's the first line. Two. I don't know how to explain it, but I'm gonna say we should at least operate on a certain amount of truth. Well, I would like to know from you what are the categories of people who will receive an additional benefit. Because they're not just retired people. There are a lot of people waiting for this answer, as I say, millions of people. They are not only pensioners, they are not even pensioners, but they are also other groups of people who receive benefits from very different sources. These categories, I'll give you a hint, are 16. I don't want you to exchange them from the bill, but he said more or less who could get that benefit. Well, then there's another question about what kind of income someone has. Who, what categories of people can get this? Simple text: pensioners, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u102	Senator, read the bill. It's all written in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I address those who listen to us, this is the level of discussion with our opponents. That's what you'll learn from them, but promise, promise everything. Well, that's an additional question, and I didn't mean to kill you anymore, but... would you please explain to the High House when the 13th and 14th pensions of the rule of law and justice passed, carried out and paid out? And how many times was that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u104	The Government of Law and Justice did not vote on the thirteenth and fourteenth pension. Parliament voted for an additional one-off benefit: that which was introduced... I'll tell you what, Senator... [[Let me help you...]] ...in 2020 [[...when pensioners and pensioners received a 13th or 14th pension...]] No, sir, sir... [[...when the Civic Platform ruled?]] ...this isn't 13th or 14th retirement. You could say it's 13th and 14th pensions if they get exactly the same pension they get every month. Then it could be said that it is 13th or 14th pension. And this is an extra benefit. [[When did these retirees get extra benefits? In the rule of law and justice, let's be precise with the co-collaborator of PSL.]] But I said yes, it was introduced by the Government of Law and Justice with the approval of the entire parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u105	Let me simplify the question: how many times... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...the pensioners and the pensioners got an extra benefit? Apart from pensions, pensions, pre-retirement benefits, etc. The categories are...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u106	Right before the election, because that's how you act. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u107	Senator Maria Blanket:
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u108	Yeah, I still have questions. Since you insist that this 14th pension is to be paid out of the Solidarity Fund at the expense of people with disabilities, I would like to ask you if you are familiar with such figures: the general expenditure of the Polish state to support people with disabilities and their carers in 2015 was PLN 15.5 billion, and in 2020, i.e. for the year that ended, was PLN 29 billion 110 million? Do you know these numbers? And do you see that there is an increase of more than 90% in the costs of disabled people and their carers to support these people under the rule of law and justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u109	Yeah, I know these numbers, but they're still not enough. Because of the inflation you've caused, those measures that are in your wallet are still small. The things you promised in the campaigns were far more generous. But you only promised. [[Excuse me, but don't you think that if the dynamics of the increase in these expenditures in previous terms, by 2015, at least in part, were so...]] [[Mr. Marshal, this is beginning to be a discussion. The senators are talking to the rapporteur. Nobody's asking for a vote. What's this?]] [[And you asked?]] [[But I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal gave me the floor.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There are procedures.]] [[But the marshal gave me the floor. I ask the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u110	I've already gotten used to the procedure in this Senate term. And it's not my fault. You're welcome, Senator, I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u111	Well, you know, I'm watching the proceedings, I'm participating in them, and I can see how you sometimes ask questions for five minutes. And you deny me the possibility of questioning the Senator? Well, here's a question. Mr. Marshal, may I ask them? [[You're welcome.]] Don't you think that if the dynamics of the increase in support of people with disabilities and their carers were the same as under the rule of law and justice, we would now have a much better situation for people with disabilities? Don't you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u112	I believe that the funds to be used by the Solidarity Fund should be used for this purpose rather than for other purposes. If you don't mind the senator asking your minister these questions. I think most of these questions... You'll be able to drink your mouths off about how much you spend. In fact, ask people with disabilities how they live. And that'll be the best answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u113	Mr. Marshal, I just want to say one thing: this is not our minister as ours, this is the minister... [[Polish.]] ...the Polish government, Minister of Poland, who will of course speak and which we will also be asking about these matters. Since you raised the question of the 14th pension being paid at the expense of people with disabilities, I would like to ask you what this is all about. I'm entitled to that. [[And I answered.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u114	Good. Are there any more questions? There isn't. [[I do.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u115	I'm sorry, because maybe it's obvious, but most of those retired people who've been in contact with me are people who just have low benefits. For obvious reasons, they want the coverage of benefits to be much lower. It's used by a variety of tools. One of them is e.g. valuerisation in which the lower threshold is defined, i.e. interest valorisation, but with the guaranteed amount, which causes the benefits not to run away, i.e. The percentages are the same, but the figures are different. And that's how it is right now. Incidentally, it must be admitted that you have taken this path earlier, and it has been used twice in the Platform's administration. Yeah, that's right. [[And once it was just a quota.]] ...she'll defend herself. The second method is the payment of an additional benefit, which is not calculated, I would say, is the basic additional amount benefit, which can result not only in the liquidation but in the reduction of this quota gap, but above all in the relief of these people, because what else is 1 thousand PLN for the person who has a benefit in the amount, let's assume, 800 PLN, 900 PLN, 1 thousand 500 PLN, and otherwise for the person who has 6 thousand PLN. Well, there's a big difference. Don't you think that's exactly the kind of solution when they can be applied, i.e. when the state budget stands, it should be the preference for those who have the smallest benefits, first, to feel this benefit once, and secondly, to have the same amount as other people with higher benefits? That gives maybe not so much a substitute for equalization, but the fact that at least the awareness of some equalization of these differences, I would say, resulting not always... There are, of course, past events here, but this is not always due to the contribution of the work that has contributed to the work of the pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u116	Mr. Senator, now I don't know what role I'm supposed to play, whether as Senator Artur Dunin or as Senator Artur Dunin, the committee's rapporteur. But I'll try to answer you. First of all, matters of valorization will be discussed in a moment and you will, too. the right to question me, because by the committee I was delegated to present also that report. So let's leave the question of valorization for now. I think that in a situation where there are so low, scandalous, even starving pensions and pensions that haven't increased in your time, every dollar is very important to them, pensioners and pensioners. And let's just stick with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u117	The question is Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u118	Mr. Senator, I see here this drag-off that someone gave, someone didn't give at the right time and from what fund he gave, from a fund for people with disabilities or from other funds. I'd like to ask. 'Cause I have a suspicion, but I need you to make sure the senator does. Where does the money come from that we share here as a parliament? Is it government money, or is it money that is collected from hard-working Poles money? 'Cause I feel like we're giving out ours here, not somebody's money, I mean. The money of our citizens. Where does this money come from in these funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u119	Of course, it is our money, all citizens, drawn from taxes, from so-called. solidarity tax, etc. This is our common money, the money of all citizens of the Republic of Poland who pay the corresponding taxes to the state budget. [[So I understand that the government or parliament really doesn't do anything extraordinary, except that they distribute what others have worked out?]] Yes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u120	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Stanisław Swed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I present to you the law on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners and pensioners, commonly referred to as the 14th pension. I pay attention to the title because we are talking about another additional annual witnessing in 2021, and I will remind you that at the same time there is a law that introduced the so-called. The 13th pension, or additional annual benefit. So this year, 2021, there will be 2 additional benefits: so-called. 13th pension, which will be paid in April, and 14th pension, which, when the law passes the whole legislative process, will be paid in November or December. The solutions we present to you are addressed to all groups that receive pension benefits. During this discussion there were different opinions, different voices. I've never received signals that someone is unhappy with the fact that they're getting 14 or 13 pensions. On the contrary, all voices are positive. People claim that this benefit is needed and is due to pensioners and rencistoms. What is the so-called issue? 14th pension, what is its payout based on, and who does it include? There were some doubts here, too, so I think it's worth mentioning all the groups. This applies to pensions in the general scheme, in a scheme covering farmers and uniformed services, bridge pensions, benefits and benefits, social pensions, teachers' compensation benefits, parental supplementary benefits and pensions for war and military invalids. So this includes the entire group of 9 million 600 000 people are entitled to receive these benefits. The 13th pension is paid to everyone, and with the 14th pension we have a limit of PLN 2 000 900. What's this all about? If someone's pension exceeds the level of PLN 2,000 900... This condition will be counted on October 31st. If someone's pension doesn't exceed that amount, they'll get a full 14th pension. It will amount to the lowest benefit, which after valorization will amount to PLN 1 thousand 250 88 gr. The people who receive this benefit will be over 7 million 900 thousand. That's almost 94%. people, i.e. you can say that practically all people will be entitled to this. If we look at the second group for which the so-called. A cashier's mechanism for a cashier's fee... If someone's pension exceeds the amount of PLN 2 000 900, that excess will have a reduced amount of the lowest pension. We estimate that this will be the case for about 1 million 100,000 people. A total of over 9 million 100,000 people will benefit from the 14th pension. There is the last, smallest group, or about 500,000 people who will not benefit from the 14th pension. These are people whose pension is over PLN 4 000 200, those with the highest pensions. Those 14-year-olds won't benefit. Like I said, most people will benefit from their 14th pension because almost 95% He's got a low pension. A large part will include a cash mechanism for a zloty. The last, least, group will not benefit from this proposal. The total cost of this benefit is PLN 11 billion 400 million. If we add the thirteenth pension... Total funds for 13 and 14 pensions will amount to more than PLN 22 billion. Questions were raised about the issue of execution. It is worth noting that the 13th and 14th pensions will not affect the situation of those applying for family benefits, benefits or social assistance. And very important information: from the 14th pension there will be no deductions and executions. This is a very beneficial solution, this pension is free from any such actions. Now, two sentences... I'll use the numbers. One of the topics raised in the report was the subject of the source of funding. The source of funding is the Solidarity Fund, which is funded by both contributions and State budget grants. There is no danger in the functioning of the Solidarity Fund. The 13th and 14th pensions will be paid from this fund. There is no risk to programmes that are implemented in support of people with disabilities. All programmes will be implemented. Several of them may be mentioned: 80 million. The care and care programme; 50 million. The rest programme; another 50 million. The care programme for family members or carers of persons with disabilities; 80 million. The personal assistant programme of a disabled person; 5 billion 54 million. The supplementary support programme for those unable to live alone. This is about this mechanism of adding PLN 500 to the lowest pension in the case of persons unable to live on their own. Here is the amount, as I said, of over PLN 5 billion. There is no change in this respect, and even higher resources are transferred to people with disabilities. The Solidarity Fund, in addition to the actions I have said... This will absolutely not affect people with disabilities and all the actions that are implemented under this fund will be implemented. That's enough explanation for this so we don't have any doubts here. There is no loan, there are no changes to the Solidarity Fund. The Fund is stable, has resources and 14th pension will be paid out of these funds. That's it, Mr. Marshal. If there are any questions, of course I'll answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u122	Please remain on the stand, Minister, because Senator Aleksander Szwed is asking the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have questions. You've actually answered one question. That was the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur, and it was about deduction and execution. I understand that when it comes to the 14th pension, there are no deductions and no executions. It would also be worth rebutting this argument, which the rapporteur was trying to tell us here that the 14th pension would be paid at the expense of people with disabilities. That's not true. I would like to ask, Minister, if you have data, if individual benefits for people with disabilities have increased since 2015. I'm asking, among other things. for the care, for the welfare allowance, for the welfare allowance or for the social pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u124	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u125	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna answer all those exact questions, but of course... As far as the social pension is concerned, we raised the amount of the social pension to the lowest pension, which was an increase of more than 30%. We also lift up the care provision It will amount to over PLN 1 thousand 900, and at the beginning of our term of office it was PLN 1 thousand 200, i.e. there has been a significant increase in expenditure on care provision. In the case of a supplementary benefit, this amount will be at the level of PLN 1 thousand 772. Here we take into account the valorization with a supplemental amount... This is the lowest pension plus 500 PLN. If someone, I would say, exceeds the amount of the lowest pension, then the mechanism of the zloty for the zloty works and the right can benefit from it. I think it is worth pointing out, as Marshal Koc said, that in the last 4 years expenditure on support for people with disabilities has doubled from PLN 15 billion to PLN 30 billion. And they are consistently increased. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced a plan, a strategy for people with disabilities. We have a programme of support for people with disabilities for the coming years, which includes support going into billions of zlotys. This is an accessibility programme that refers to this, but also various other benefits. We know there's a need for extra resources here. The funds we are transferring right now are far higher than they have been so far. And you can repeat what the senator said here, that if we consistently supported all these years, we would be in a slightly different situation today. We have decided as a country for a great deal of effort, we are helping, but here must have been the will of our group to carry out such activities and to transfer these funds. That's all we can be happy about. We know that this assistance is needed, so that the measures we are taking and the resources we are allocating are moving in this direction. The support programme for independent people is over PLN 5 billion. No one's ever made such a show. We present, implement and use it by people who are not independent. They can make this proposal. For those with the lowest benefits, please take advantage.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Marek Plura a question. In remote mode and then Senator Maria Koc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, Dear Stanislaw, I am very pleased that the scale of spending on the needs of people with disabilities is increasing in the framework of these new programmes on a scale of the last 20 years, such as assistive, resting, transport assistance. These numbers are rising. But I have a question for the Minister: what is the percentage of what needs are currently met? I am aware of the use of the words "needs" and not "applications" here, because applications are made in an appropriate system, of course, in an appropriate procedure. E.g. one which often requires considerable participation of the municipality or organisation to carry out services. Therefore, I am boldly saying that the number of applications is far, far less than the number of needs. Therefore, the question is what is the methodology for examining these needs. How many people, according to the Ministry, should work in Poland today as assistant to a disabled person? In the opinion of the Ministry, how many resting places should there be in Poland today or all day support for people with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u128	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u129	Thank you. I think, Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna answer these questions right now, because the subject is an additional one-year benefit. I think we can agree that we will answer this question in writing, because here are the specific issues that are at the disposal of the government's representative for people with disabilities. I can only say about the numbers that we talked about, resulting from the programmes that are under the Solidarity Fund. These expenditures are growing from year to year, and as part of this strategy, which I mentioned just a moment ago, these funds for support for people with disabilities will also be higher. As far as these specific questions are concerned, we will make sure that the government representative for disabled persons in writing refers to these questions of the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u130	Thank you very much. As I understand it, the Minister has undertaken to answer the question in writing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] Good. Senator Maria Blanket, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u131	Thank you very much. I just wanted you to say explicitly and unambiguously that benefits to people with disabilities will not be affected by the payment of the 14th pension. You said that, and I'm very happy for you. And my questions were actually the same as Senator Alexander Swede's questions. But it was also said here that these are actually taxpayers' means. Is that true? Well, the obvious thing is that the government doesn't have its money, that the state budget is citizens' taxes. But because under the rule of law and justice taxes are reduced and not increased, because we have VAT at the same level as in 2015, but we have a smaller PIT and we have a lower CIT tax for many entrepreneurs... In this connection, I would like to ask, Minister, to sort out some doubts too, because I was not the first to start this topic: is it true that in the rule of law and justice the revenue has increased to the state budget, precisely because of tax revenues, by more than PLN 100 billion compared to 2015, with the same VAT and reduced tax on PIT and CIT? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you for this question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u132	Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u133	Of course, here we could add these programs that involve relief, even for young people, up to the age of twenty-six, which... [[Yes.]] ...they don't pay tax. Of course, I can only confirm that. And what's important is that in the difficult situation we're in with the COVID, we've been able to keep social programs up and increase them, which is an example of an additional 14th-year pension, and soon we'll be talking about valorisation. The total resources we will spend this year, only from these three sources, such as valorisation, 13th and 14th pensions, will be the amount of 35 billion PLN. These measures will go to our seniors. And it's a good thing that so to speak, the money that's spent, because we know that the needs of seniors are always bigger than we thought, and that's why it's worth it. We'll talk about valorisation or the degree of valorization, but, as I say, 13th and 14th pensions are big support. Seniors are waiting for this. When we talk to them at meetings too, everyone asks when it's gonna be. I think this is the answer, the response of our environment, but also the government in this case, to the demands to support the people who need this support most. Even that mechanism we used... It's a pretty high amount. This 2 000 900 PLN compared to other benefits is not the lowest amount. She's 120%. the average pension in our country. We also used the gold mechanism for the gold, so just this last group. This is about people who, as I said, are retiring at the level of PLN 4 000 200 and will not receive support in the form of a 14th pension. We would like to support those who are in the most difficult situation who have the lowest income. In the case of the 13th pension, we assumed that everyone would receive it, regardless of the amount of benefits they received.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u134	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We already know who will receive the witness and what his Majesty will be. It would be good to have it here, from this platform, when exactly that happens. Because most will get in November, on a normal date, but there are probably 2 categories of people who will get on other dates. The point is that these people, our citizens, just don't worry. And the question of decision. Will the decision be made sooner or just before the payment of the benefit? And in what form will it be published? Because this decision stays, even if it is to be positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u136	The 14th pension will be paid on the dates on which pension benefits are paid. If a person receives a witness in November, he will receive it in November. But there is, for example. a group of persons who receive pre-retirement benefits. These people receive them at the beginning of December, so in December they will also receive this benefit. There is also a small group of people who will receive them in January, because this is due to their accounting period. So that in this case, all those who today take pensions who will be entitled to pensions These are the groups I've already mentioned. On 31 October, they will also receive this benefit within the time limits on which pensions are paid. You don't have to submit any applications, it'll be allocated from the vending machine. The case is, I'd say, simple. All responsibility, including the calculation of this limit of PLN 2 000 900, lies with the Social Insurance Institution. As for the mechanism of the zloty for the zloty, it will also be performed by the Social Insurance Institution. The person who receives this witness will have no problem with it. Everyone will receive live cash in an account or in a hand, depending on who receives the benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u137	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u138	Minister, a few very short questions. There is often an argument here that a few years ago these benefits were lower, and now they are higher. Only it's natural. The whole world is growing, the economy around the world is improving, so there are also more influences in Poland. But my question is different. Minister, do you think... Do you have any idea what the ratio of benefit increases to price increases is? We say the benefits are growing. Yeah, except it's real money. Do you know the ratio between rising benefits and rising prices? That's the first question. Second question. It was already raining here, and I won't say it again. It's where the money comes from. 'Cause it's not from contributions, is it? The contributions which Poles pay to the Social Security Office are not sufficient to cover all expenses. Are you aware of that? Or maybe I will ask this question: do you know what Poland's debt was in 2015, and what, say, at the end of 2020? Because the fact that we're gonna take the money out of this drawer, and not that we're gonna put the money in the drawer, is secondary. The important thing is that the money is there, and I don't think it's there. So that's the second question: do you know what the debt increase was in 2015-2020? And one last question. How do these expenses, these paid money, translate into future benefits? Is there even a correlation here when it comes to paying pensions for young people today? I'm not a young man, I have gray hair. I'm not retired yet, I'm still a few years short, but I've already had my pension calculated. Although as president of the city I made quite a lot of money and before I ran a company, I will get a pension of PLN 1 000 950. That's the pension I'm getting as calculated. Are those benefits that you are offering to Poles today Maybe it's right, because the Poles are waiting for it. Will they translate into pensions for people like me, but above all for young people? Will the money that we can transfer as part of pensions become less and less, or will there be more and more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u139	Mr. Senator has raised a few points, but maybe I'll start with this personal matter you've been asking about. I'd have to know your way of life when it comes to work. You say that $1,000 900 comes out of you, that's a pretty low pension, and I know you're a senator, you were president of the city before... Yeah, well, it's not really... But, of course, we are counting the entire period of our work or at least 40 years of work. If, in the earlier period, there was no source of funding or any other source, then this pension is lower. But as I say, I don't want to talk about it, because since 1998, we've had a new pension system where each of us has an account and saves for retirement. Those who have been before have the so-called. initial capital, added to this period, which is... That is why it is so important that we stabilise this pension system, because it will be very important for the years to come, especially for young people. And such an important point that we do not connect the insurance system to the system, e.g. tax, because these are two different things. The second point is the issue of inflation. Of course, we'll talk about it on the occasion of valorization, because valorization is the factor that captures inflation. In the case of valorisation, we know that this is an inflation rate plus a 20% wage growth rate. That's why it's different. So those who... if this is a percentage valorization, then it shows a greater amount of increase for those who, due to inflation, have suffered as if a greater loss. As far as financial stability is concerned, I think that those data that are being published today as regards our country... One of the lowest declines in GDP in the European Union shows that our economy, despite the difficult situation in the fight against COVID, has done well in 2020 and we are holding on to this too. Of course, all the actions we take, as we have already talked about, and the resources we spend, are being developed by our society. There is a question of how we distribute these resources, how we seal these systems and what we use them for. It's always the choice of every government. Our government has chosen that, in addition to economic activities, we support the social sphere very strongly. And this is reflected in these programmes that we are talking about here today, because we are talking about the 13th pension, the 14th pension, but also earlier we were talking about other social programmes that our government is implementing. I think that over the last few years we have shown that the path we have chosen is a very good path and it serves our society.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u140	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Mark Plura. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the exposé of the Prime Minister of Mateusz Morawiecki, which took place in the Sejm on 19 November 2019, the Prime Minister announced additional assistance for pensioners. Since 2020, the government has continued to pay the 13th pension, while in 2021, in line with its commitment, it also plans to pay the 14th pension. Another additional annual cash benefit in 2021 will be paid, as has already been said, to approximately 9.1 million recipients, including almost 8 million recipients will receive full payment, and about 1.1 million will receive a lower amount due to the amount of the benefit received above PLN 2 000 900 per month. It is equally important that the amount of the next additional cash benefit will not be included in the revenue referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Social Rent Act. Also, by establishing the right to family benefits referred to in the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits or maintenance fund benefits referred to in the Law of 2007 on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance, the income of a family member shall not be included in the amount of the additional annual cash benefit paid to that member. Thus, the amount of the next additional annual benefit will not affect the entitlement of applicants for benefits, allowances, allowances, aid or support mentioned in those laws. No deductions and enforcement shall be made from the amount of the next additional annual cash benefit. The cost of paying another additional cash benefit in 2021 is about PLN 11.4 billion. This amount will feed the pension budgets. Special thanks to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the whole government that, despite such a difficult situation, we keep our word and implement this important additional programme of support for our pensioners. We fully support this law. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Plura, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are leaning on the Act on additional benefits for pensioners and pensioners. And we all know very well that these poorest pensioners and pensioners are many, far too many. And that's why I'm going to support even such a lame, unstable solution as this 14th pension. We need to help the weakest. But all pensioners need a new reform, a new system. Law and Justice expects us to fulfill our electoral promises, which concern among others. This fourteenth witness, the government's promises, the party's promises. It is a pity that this is not a promise of such a systemic approach to change. Unless this system is based on the fact that there will also be twenty-twos, twenty-threes, and twenty-fours, along with thirteens and fourteens. That is, a system in which the whole year will be enriched with such additional benefits. Let's hope they're guaranteed and not just part of the electoral promise. But we must keep in mind that the funds in question come from the Solidarity Fund, which is intended to support the enormous needs of people with disabilities, actually set up to cover the civilizational gap that divides our pseudostandards from those that operate in Western Europe. It's a good thing this fund is at least starting to build the normal ones. elsewhere for many, many not years, but decades of solutions, such as assistance for people with disabilities or rest. But how many years are we gonna start and build? If it weren't for the fact that no systemic solutions were found for pensioners and pensioners, today it's building, it's filling a civilization hole in solutions that support the independent lives of people with disabilities we could speed up by a lot of billions of zlotys. Because it's in gold that the time is measured, a time that is not enough for everyone, because the life of the most independent ones is often just short. For what purposes could this money be spent? Well, today I received an e-mail report, very important and symbolic on the day of our debate today. As a believer, I will say that this is a coincidence of providence. Well, the Polish Society of Protectors of Human Life, so-called. The pro-life organisation sent me a report on poverty, widespread and deep poverty in families with people with disabilities, and I hope that all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, too. I will use a very short quote: The data of the Central Statistical Office leave no illusions. Despite various attempts to help the families of sick children, the extent of extreme poverty among families with disabled children does not change. The second quote: "The State was to amend the Act of 4 November 2016 on the support of pregnant women and their families "For life." For the development of institutions and support programmes for families of the most sick children in the years 2017 to 2021 only over PLN 3 billion were allocated from the budget. After 4 years of operation of the law for most parents, the only form of support they received was a one-off payment of PLN 4 000. This is not surprising, since only 0.17% were allocated to a flagship government program to develop comprehensive care services, personal assistant services, residential care centres and direct family support. State budget resources. This is how the authors of this report write and indicate that the measures that need to be found are: it is in the Solidarity Fund that I say that they should increase significantly, among others. care allowance, which today amounts to PLN 215. According to the authors of this report, it should be at least PLN 2 000 per month to do its job. I will also say that it also demands the right and justice in everyday life to execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which calls for equalisation of benefits for carers of persons and children with disabilities. Such tasks are very much in front of the Solidarity Fund, which is now being used, unfortunately, in the end, and unfortunately in a very visible way, in connection with electoral campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u144	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Łuczak, Senator Durlak, Senator Gromek, Senator Błecherz, Senator Godyla, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Bury, Senator Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 313 and the report of the Commission In print No 313 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee and then a request from the minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I would like to present what happened at its meeting on 10 February when we discussed the law on amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 17 December 1998 on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund Further referred to as the FUS Pension Act, the valorisation of pension benefits has been carried out every year since 1 March, using a percentage of the valorisation rate which corresponds to the average annual price index of consumer goods and services in the previous calendar year, increased by at least 20% a real increase in average wage. Ladies and gentlemen, the government presented as every year Just like I just read, as I informed you It's a valorization bill. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is due to the pensioners and pensioners, because it involves inflation, as I said, and results from the provisions of the Act. However, ladies and gentlemen, since, as your marshal has said, I will also represent a minority, I would like to combine, if your marshal permits, these statements into one. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Of course, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you very much. I would like to present briefly the course of the debate at the committee meeting. After the Minister's presentation of the benefits, which will be valued, there were some reservations and 3 amendments were tabled. If you don't mind... They relate to an increase in the minimum amount granted to rencists and pensioners. I would like to remind you that, as you have announced, Mr. Minister... The PiS government, through the Prime Minister's mouth, said in one campaign that pensions and pensions cannot be less than a raise... that the valorization of pensions should not be less than 70 PLN. And in view of this assurance, I have tabled amendments to it precisely so that the words '50 zlotys', because this is the minimum witness you want to talk about, and this is what you want to do, replace the words '70 zlotys', which would be in line with your declaration. But, like I said, it was before the election. Ladies and gentlemen, why should you keep your word? Because the price increase of things important to these people is much greater. The meats were sold by 10.5%. , milk by more than 8%, bread by more than 9%, fruit by 28%. Prices of medical services The functioning of the health care system in relation to COVID has made it clear that you are not dealing with this problem and that individuals need to use private doctors and increased by 9% and the price of dental services by 15%. But that's not all. Since January you've raised... there's an increase in electricity prices, there's sugar tax, trade tax, and much more. If you multiply 50 zlotys, it's a minimum, it's about 80 million zlotys, and on TVPiS you spend 2 billion zlotys. You even had to verify your conversions when you were preparing for the valorization, because these increases made there's another way of converting, and you had to count that money too. Ladies and gentlemen, during the discussions at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, a request was made for the adoption of a law without amendments. He got four votes... wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. He got four votes, there were three votes of opposition, no one held back. However, Senator Magda Kochan reported such a problem that her voice was not counted. Mr Jan Filip Libicki no longer resumpted the vote. This is why minority amendments have been tabled, 3 amendments which increase, as I said earlier, the amounts in the relevant provisions of the Act: in paragraph 1. 1 of 50 PLN to 70 PLN, in the mouth. 5 of 37,50 PLN to 52,50 PLN and in the mouth. 6 out of 25 PLN to 35 PLN. This depends on the value of the provision of a given group of pensioners and pensioners. That's all. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm asking Senator Alexander Swede to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u147	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. A moment ago, at the previous point, you tried to criticize the 14th pension of PLN 1 thousand 255, which we will hand over to pensioners and to the pensioners, and you pointed out falsely that this would be at the expense of people with disabilities. Now you are trying to criticize this decision about a guaranteed minimum increase, suggesting that it should be higher by 20 PLN, which is 70 PLN. I have a specific question... In the explanatory memorandum, the Sejm project states that the adoption in 2021 of the principle of interest valorisation with a guaranteed minimum increase of PLN 50 will result in an increase of less than PLN 1 000 302 per month in the amount of PLN 8 per month than if a valorisation was carried out according to the current rules. Did the committee's meeting mention how much this amount would have been if the valorisation had been done on an old basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u148	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u149	There was no discussion about it. However, I will confirm what I said earlier, Mr. Senator, although I do not want to go back because we closed that point, but the money for an additional one-off benefit will come from a solidarity benefit fund that was intended for people with disabilities. And if you want to discuss this, as I said, there was no discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Stanisław Szwed is in the room. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! We present a revision of the Act on Pensions and Social Insurance Fund, concerning the value-added rate of benefits for 2021. Before I discuss the project myself... I think it is worth recalling a few things that led to the final decision, so that we present this amendment to you today. When we prepare plans and valorization rates, we always start working in the previous year around June. The indicators we're taking are the indicators from September. This is also subject to negotiations with the social partners in the Social Dialogue Council. And then we accepted... Here it is worth recalling that this valorization is the average annual rate of price and service increases, i.e. inflation, plus a minimum of 20% real increase in average salary in the previous calendar year. So we're talking about 2019, if we're talking about 2020 and if we're talking about 2021, we're talking about 2020. Then, in September, we accepted this indicator at level 3.84, those were the forecasts we estimated. That is why we have proposed a solution that we have already adopted, i.e. quota-percent valorisation, so as to secure the lowest benefit at the appropriate level. In this case we secured this at the level of 50 PLN, i.e. the lowest benefits would increase by 50 PLN, i.e. out of the current amount of PLN 1 thousand 200 would increase to PLN 1 thousand 250. At the same time, we have put in place a mechanism that safeguards that, in the case of higher inflation, which is always announced at the beginning of February of a given year, in this case this year... If it turns out that inflation is higher or the wage rate is higher, then we have this fuse in order to be able to apply not the amount value, but the percentage. And so in this case it happened that the declared inflation rate... The wage growth rate was at 4,24, so it exceeded the limit we were talking about, the safe, 50 gold increase amount, hence the lowest pension increases to the amount of PLN 1 thousand 250 and 88 gr and this is the amount from which other benefits are calculated. I can also give them exactly: PLN 938 16 for partially unfit persons, the amount of the survivor's pension is at the level of the lowest pension, i.e. the amount of PLN 1 thousand 250 88 gr, the amount of the pre-retirement benefit is PLN 1 thousand 262 34 gr, the amount of the pre-retirement benefit if the income is exceeded is PLN 631 17 gr, the amount of the monthly compensatory benefit threshold is PLN 2 000 501 76 gr, and the amount of the monthly supplemental benefit threshold is PLN 1 thousand 772 8 gr. It is also worth recalling here that the whole issue of valorisation covers all pensioners in the general system, in the agricultural system and in the uniform services there are other benefits that depend on it. The total cost of valorization this year will be about PLN 10 billion 600 million and as every year from 1 March it will be paid by the Social Insurance Institution without any application, just anyone who is entitled will be able to benefit from it. And maybe such additional information: in 2020 the lowest benefit, which is the lowest pension, was charged to 228 000 people, the pension for incapacity for work was paid to 185 000 people, and the family pension was charged to 129 000 people. The remainder, or almost 9 million 600 000 eligible persons, have higher benefits. Their prognosis, then the percentages, are also dependent on it. That's it, Marshal. If there are any questions, of course I'll answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u152	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u153	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, because actually everything should be clear... Could the Minister give you those amounts again with those pennies? I'm sorry, but I think some of them ran off, so I'd like to ask for their exact quote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u154	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u155	Okay, let's do it again. The lowest pension for incapacity for work is PLN 1 thousand 250 88 gr; of course, the lowest pension is the same amount of PLN 1 thousand 250 88 gr. 938 zł 16 gray for people who are partially unable to work. The amount of the survivor's pension is at the same level as the lowest pension, i.e. 1 thousand 250 PLN 88 gr. The amount of the pre-retirement benefit is PLN 1 thousand 262 34 gr. The amount of pre-retirement benefit reduced in case of excess of the permitted amount of income is PLN 631 17 gr. The amount of the monthly compensatory allowance threshold is PLN 2 000 501 76. And the amount of the monthly threshold entitlement to supplementary benefit for persons unable to self-exist is PLN 1 thousand 772 8 gr.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u156	Is that all, Senator? Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u157	Excuse me... Well, I'm not happy. Maybe there's just some simple mistake here that... I have on me print 313, we are now debating this print; we are talking about amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. And these amounts in this printing are a little different, they're a little bit lower, a few zlotys or a dozen pennies. That's what bothered me. But perhaps... I'm talking about it because I want it to be concrete. Maybe this indicator looks different with this present percentage and the one that it was, and that's why... Therefore, if any, please take note of this in the course of the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u158	What I've given is definitely consistent with indicator 4.24. That refers to this threshold 4.16 Maybe that's why it's a misunderstanding. I served here, for example. the amount of the supplementary benefit. If we just added 500 PLN to the amount of 1 thousand 250 PLN, that would be less, but we value it to the amount of this benefit, which is kind of the higher amount. That's why these differences occur. So that's definitely the right thing to do right now. I also read it from the announcement by the president of the Social Insurance Institution. These are the data I read you. It's already been recounted, these measures in exactly that amount will go to the eligible ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u159	Is that all, Senator? [[No.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u160	I've got 313 in front of me. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 I read that in the Law of 17 December 1998 on pensions with FUS art. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 are replaced by the following: The lowest pension for total incapacity for work is PLN 1 thousand 250 and in the case of persons who are partially unfit for work PLN 937 50. The lowest pension is PLN 1 thousand 250. I'm asking about these penny cases, because there are other amounts in the bill than the Minister said. Maybe it'll even up after that. Well, it can be straightened out somehow in the message, but in the bill these amounts are different. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: May I once again, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u161	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u162	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna explain this one more time because maybe I'm being vague. We adopted this law, not yet knowing the indicator announced by the Central Statistical Office. We accepted the amount proposed by the government The lowest benefit was to increase by PLN 50 and therefore resulted in all other conversions. In the Seym project there is an amount of PLN 1 thousand 250. At the beginning of February, i.e. after the closure of the work in the Sejm, it turned out that inflation was 4.24. So we exceeded the amount of PLN 1 thousand 250 exactly by 88 gr. This is 1 thousand 250 zł 88 gr. In these other calculations we also used a valorization rate of 104.24%. And that's where it comes from. What was included in the project was prepared before the announcement of the Central Statistical Office. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 has been used such a fuse. If we had recorded inflation at 104.16% Then it would be 50 zlotys. Because it's 104.24% , 88 gr. That's how it was counted, because we weren't able to predict in September what the final inflation rate would be. We put in this fuse because it could be. A little more, but it turned out that this amount was underestimated by 88 gr.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u163	Mr. Senator? [[These higher amounts will be paid, that is the most important.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u164	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to repeat this question that I have asked you to the Senator of the rapporteur. Do we know what this increase would be like if the valorization was carried out according to current rules? Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I have not heard. As if you've said it again...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Senator Szwed asked what this increase would have looked like if the valorization had been carried out on the basis of the current law.]] I'm sorry, maybe I misspelled it. I quoted earlier the justification of the Act which referred to the adoption in 2021 of the principles of interest valorisation with a guaranteed minimum increase of PLN 50, which makes the benefits paid under PLN 1 thousand 302 8 per month increase to a greater extent than if the current rules were to be valorized. That's the change I'm talking about. I asked you to apply those earlier rules. Do we know how much retirement would then increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u165	After using this mechanism, which we have introduced, a mechanism with a guaranteed amount of PLN 50... But today this guaranteed amount was exceeded, the increase in inflation exceeded that amount. Like I said, it's 104.24%. above this amount, hence the lowest pension is at the level of PLN 1 thousand 250 88. We've exceeded the amount we've proposed before. As I have already said, we have prepared this for forecasts that are being adopted in terms of valorisation indicators, because we did not know either the inflation rate or the wage growth rate. These indicators for 2020 were received at the beginning of February 2021. Today we are referring to this issue, but not to the submission itself, which concerned the proposals adopted last September.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u166	Thank you very much. Senator Arthur Dunin's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I wasn't gonna ask any more questions, but I'd ask the Minister... I will no longer refer to Senator Swede's question, because these solutions were admitted by his party colleague The ones you are applying today were adopted much earlier. That's it. Questions. I would ask the Minister for an answer, yes or no, briefly and on the subject. My questions will be brief, too. Is it true that... In 2015, the lowest, so-called. The starving pensions we're talking about received 70 000 pensioners. Is it true that in 2020 the number of starving pensions paid was over 230 000? And one last question. I'm asking you to tell me a short story too, yes or no. Will this valorisation result in a reduction in the number of starvation pensions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u168	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u169	Such a question cannot be answered either by yes or by no means. [[Yeah, I can do that.]] If you want, I'll say no. There's no mechanism that you... [[Minister, these are your words.]] No, no. [[These are your words from the committee meeting...]] But, Lord... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me. Maybe you'll finish the minister and then you'll...]] If you want information, I'll tell you how the so-called mechanism works. The hunger pensions you were talking about. But you know that. I don't know why you ask such questions if you know exactly how this mechanism works. What kind of answer do you want? I want to explain it to you. If you don't want to hear my explanations, I'm not giving them. [[How much was it? 70,000?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] [[Now there's over 230 grand. Yes? Is this valorization gonna make a difference?]] I'm telling you it's not, and you're telling yourself it is. And we're gonna stay that way. [[Minister, is this increase in valorization... let's leave that. You're wrong.]] No. Got it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u170	You've been giving that information to the public yourself. This is public information for 2015 and 2020. You've been giving this information to the public. I'm asking the extra question. Whether the increase in this valorization will result in a reduction in the number of so-called. Hunger pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u171	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u172	The question is different. Why did these hunger pensions, as you call them, show up? That's the question. [[No...]] Let's ask what the mechanism is. [[I asked the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u173	Minister, I think the question is simple. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Here you go, Mrs. Marshal. If you ask me a question, I'd be happy to answer it.]] Did you actually... How many people in 2015 had the lowest pensions? That's what this was all about. How many people did they charge?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u174	Yes. But there's no way to say it like that, numerically, because we're gonna mess things up when it comes to the lowest pensions. You have to present the whole mechanism, explain how it works. If we don't explain this, there's going to be misinformation in the world, and I'm not going to give incorrect information. That's it. I want to be precise. I know what I'm talking about because I'm handling these things. If I don't... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Is it possible to answer the question of how many people in 2015 received the lowest benefit?]] You can answer that, but... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: How much?]] ...it's important in what context we answer. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But how many people did they charge? I think that's what the senator meant.]] I don't have that kind of data right now. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: How many people are now getting the lowest pension?]] I don't have that kind of data right now. I gave the figures from 2020, the data on the lowest pension, because that's what I have. I wasn't preparing for information on how many people are below the border.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u175	And if I asked you to give me such an answer in writing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Of course. There's no problem.]] How many people took the lowest pensions in 2015 and how many did they take in 2020? Okay? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Okay, Mrs. Marshal, I'll introduce you.]] You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: But including an explanation.]] Good. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, one word...]] Mr. Senator Dunin yet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Question, Mr. Senator. Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u176	Yes, a question. Are those your words? I'm quoting you. This is the committee meeting of the day... Well, I'm not gonna give you a date, but I'm meeting the Sejm Committee. (PL) Madam President, High Commission! Thank you for the discussion. I'll be brief... Previously, a question had just been asked about these 76,000 starvation benefits, etc. And the answer was: I have the data of June 2020 and 233,000 600 pensioners are getting the lowest pensions. These are your words, Minister, not out of nowhere. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Question, question.]] Is that true? Did you use those words? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u177	But if you read my entire statement... [[Please, I'll give it to you.]] ...it'll be logical then. But if you don't want to do it, what are we gonna talk about? You pull out one number and you present it. If you read my entire statement, you'll know everything, even though you know exactly what's in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u178	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I would be happy to answer your questions.]] Thank you. I just wrote it down. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the Chamber: No votes in the discussion.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 312 and the report of the Commission In print No 312 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. Our report is in print No 312 A. The Commission recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances considered this law on 10 February this year. It was adopted on 21 January 2021. As I said, we recommend the adoption of a law without amendment. I will briefly discuss this bill, present its assumptions. The bill is very complicated and very hermetic. It concerns quite important, important financial elements, but it is to a large extent a technical law. The basic objective of the Act is to align the Polish legal order with EU legislation in connection with the entry into force of the European Union legal acts, which are the result of a review of the provisions concerning European supervisory authorities. The legislation in question implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. Directive 2177 of 2019 amending the previous Directive of 2009, No 138/ The EC relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance and the 2014 Directive No 65 on markets in financial instruments, as well as the 2015 Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing and complements the implementation of the 2015 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on payment services in the internal market, amending the Directives of 2002, 2009 and 2013 and the 2010 Regulation of the European Union No 1093 on the establishment of a European Supervisory Authority, Regulation No 1094 of the Union on the establishment of a European Supervisory Authority... These are regulations that govern the functioning of this European Supervisory Authority. These regulations are undergoing quite significant changes, which requires further changes and implementation of these provisions into Polish law. This law also requires the amendment of the Act of 29 July 2005 on trading in financial instruments, the Act of 29 July 2005 on the supervision of the capital market and other laws which relate to payment services or the introduction of financial instruments into organised trading and public companies. This law also amends the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. The Union legislature has amended the rules on the activities of providers of information provision services which provide services as an approved publication entity, an approved reporting mechanism or a consolidated information provider. A solution has been introduced to transfer the authorisation and supervision of information-sharing services providers from the level of the competent national authorities to the European Securities and Markets Authority. The exception will be approved publication entities or approved reporting mechanisms provided that they meet the identification criteria set out in the delegated act issued by the European Commission referred to in the 2014 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. Document No 600 of 15 May 2014 A change has also been made to improve consumer protection. To this end, provision has been made for payment service providers to make available a brochure drawn up by the European Commission containing information to consumers about their rights. The document I am talking about has introduced a number of solutions that improve the situation of consumers in relation to the various financial institutions. The amendment of the Act of 29 July 2005 on Trading in Financial Instruments and the Act of 29 July 2005 on Supervision of the Capital Market will result in the elimination from the Polish legal order of provisions concerning operational requirements for providers of information provision services and the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission with regard to providers of such services. The purpose of the amendments is also to enable the KNF to carry out supervision and any activities related to it in connection with the supervision of approved publication entities or the approved reporting mechanisms referred to in delegated acts adopted by the European Commission on the basis of the relevant provisions. With regard to the Law of 29 July 2005 on the supervision of the capital market, the Act also provides for the possibility for the European Securities and Markets Authority to delegate supervisory tasks to KNF which have so far been in competence... The 2011 amendment to the Payment Services Act will result in the obligation for payment service providers to make available to the consumer free of charge the information booklet of the European Commission on consumer rights when making payments in Europe. As you senators remember, the issue of payment services, payment cards and all the things that concern non-cash trading, we in the Senate were already regulated in 2011. So now these rules are being amended and we are also introducing rules that protect consumers more on the basis of European legislation. The amendment of the Act of 11 September 2015 on Insurance and Reinsurance Activities provides for the obligation on the KNF to promptly communicate to the competent supervisory authorities of other Member States of the European Union and to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority information on national insurance undertakings or national reinsurance undertakings which carry out or intend to carry out significant cross-border activities within their territory and on the risks associated with those activities. In addition, KNF will be required to inform the competent supervisory authorities of other Member States of the European Union immediately about the cross-border activities of foreign insurance companies in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Regardless of the problems and issues I have mentioned, the legislator is making changes in the functioning of public companies. The changes involve dematerialisation of the shares, the departure from the paper form of the share document. With effect from 1 March 2021, shares shall only operate in the form of a security account or in a securities deposit. These changes are of a sequencing nature. And in connection with Brexit This is the last group of changes. It is necessary to regulate in the Act the matters relating to the performance of insurance contracts, reinsurance contracts and other contracts concluded by insurance and reinsurance undertakings established in the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar on 31 December 2020 until the expiry of claims from those contracts, which were established on a uniform licence basis in Poland. Such agreements shall in principle remain valid. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union shall not constitute grounds for termination of the contract or affect the obligation to fulfil the contractual benefit. In general, the Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2022, except that it does not apply to all provisions. The Brexit provision will enter into force on a retroactive basis as from 1 January 2021. Amendment of the Payment Services Act 14 days after the publication of the Act. The amendments to the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies and the Act of 2019 amending the Act. The Code of Commercial Companies will enter into force on 1 March 2021. The provisions on Insurance and Insurance Activities will enter into force on 30 June 2021. And that would be the most important elements of the bill. I would also like to inform the High House that at a committee meeting with the Minister we discussed the provisions of this law. The Legislative Office has tabled one proposal for an amendment, but it is legislative in nature. The Commission considered that this amendment was not relevant and that extending the date of entry into force of the law would create more risks than those resulting from this legislative failure. We therefore accepted the proposal that this law should be adopted without amendments. During our discussions, and those at the committee meeting, and those in preparation for the committee meeting, there was a problem with the provisions of the Act. And here would also be a question to the Minister, asking for a possible explanation of this problem, concerning the trading of shares in companies that are bankrupt or in liquidation. Because the problem that exists today is that these shares are often traded, especially in the case of owners or minority shareholders, even though the company is in liquidation or bankruptcy. In order to prevent, in the future, such situations, that there may be transactions that may make those buyers feel deceived, in short, worthless shares The law should not, perhaps not now, but on the occasion of the next amendment, make a proper change and prevent such situations? I'd like to ask the Minister for some explanation, a comment on the situation. So much for my report. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u180	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u181	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. The explanatory memorandum states that the aim of the project is to amend the national legal order as a result of the entry into force of the European Union regulation, which is the result of a review of the rules on European supervisory authorities. The European Supervisory Authorities are composed of 3 institutions: the European Banking Authority (EBA), the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (ESMA). I would like to ask you this specific question: was there a committee meeting on what exceptions were mentioned in relation to the provision of information to the European Securities and Markets Authority? I'm asking because you were talking about ESMA in your report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u182	Yeah, I was talking about these things, but we weren't that deep into this problem. I think the Minister will be more competent to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u183	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by... Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Sebastian Skuza's room. And, of course, I ask the question: would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u184	Dear Marshal! High Senate! The proposed law aims to implement the European Union's legislation on European supervisory authorities. These changes mainly concern the capital and insurance sectors. As regards the capital market, rules on the supervision of providers of capital market information services are being revised. In principle, the Act transfers supervisory powers over providers of such services from the level of the national supervisory authority, which is the Commission for Financial Supervision, to the European level, to the European Securities and Markets Authority, i.e. ESMA. It should be pointed out that at least three categories of service providers can be distinguished in the European financial market: an approved publication entity, an approved reporting mechanism and a consolidated information provider. I said theoretically, because this third form in Europe does not yet exist in any country, it is a legal concept, but in practice no one has ever founded such an institution. And here maybe I could answer the question that you asked Senator Swed if there would be a transfer from national supervision to ESMA that this would depend on how large and significant the activities of the institution in terms of providing information will be. If this importance is not systemic, then, under the guidelines in the European Commission Delegated Regulation, such an institution may be subject to national supervision. And here I explain that currently in Poland only one entity, namely the National Securities Deposit SA, is authorised to act as an approved reporting mechanism. As regards the insurance sector, the solution concerns the issue of improving international cooperation. The Act obliges the Financial Supervision Commission to communicate certain information to the competent supervisory authorities of other Member States and to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, the Authority. This information will apply to national insurance undertakings or national reinsurance undertakings which carry out or intend to carry out significant cross-border activities within their territory. In addition, it will be possible to improve the exchange of information through new tools, namely cooperation platforms. The Act also contains solutions to improve consumer protection, as President Kazimierz Kleina has already said. A regulation has been proposed to allow, inter alia, the performance of insurance contracts concluded until 31 December 2020 by insurance undertakings established in the United Kingdom. In terms of improving consumer protection, provision is also proposed for the provision by payment service providers of a brochure drawn up by the European Commission containing information to consumers about their rights. The Act also provides for clarification of the provisions relating to the application of those regulations in the field of public companies which are required to announce a call for action when the company is withdrawn from trading on the Stock Exchange or from the NewConnect market. This is also a protection measure for minority investors, i.e. de facto it can be said that to a large extent pro-consumer. As regards the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I recall that there was such a request to refer to the comments of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. I think that these comments... maybe not attention, but the doubts have been explained in writing, but I will still allow myself to quote them. The President's first comment was on the request to clarify the wording of the information. I would like to point out that this concept is defined directly in Council and Parliament Regulation No 600/2014, and this cannot be changed. The President's second and third comments raised doubts as to whether the transmission of information to supervisory authorities by providers of information-sharing services and by insurance companies would concern personal data. Here I would like to say that this will not apply to such data. That'll be, for example. information in the framework of the exchange of cooperation on the platform between insurance supervision and concern This will be the issue of the risk profile of the plant offered by the plant in the context of cross-border activities of products, rates or any other financial data, e.g. procedures for determining technical provisions or distribution channels in insurance undertakings. There was also a question about the issue of trading in shares of companies in liquidation or bankruptcy. As far as regulated markets are concerned, it is regulated by stock rules. As a general rule, companies in bankruptcy or liquidation cannot be admitted to this market, but if they are already on the market, they should no longer, in fact, participate in it as regards trading in shares. Nevertheless, there are some possibilities... If it would be appropriate for the company to still be listed, then, as I recall, it is possible. But then it is public information that the company is already in liquidation or bankruptcy. Nevertheless, with regard to the OTC market, i.e. the private market, I would say that this already goes beyond the scope of the Act on Trading in Financed Instruments, which mainly relates to the market, can be said to be regulated, public. Nevertheless, I think the amendments to the Commercial Companies Code, which we are referring to here, which concern the dematerialisation of trading in securities, may be such a summary to, so to speak, limiting the risk of negative consequences of trading on the private market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u185	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed wants to ask you a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Marshal, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you very warmly, because you have already referred to this question which I have addressed to the Senator rapporteur when it comes to making the information available to ESMA. But I have another question: what mechanisms will be put in place to make the flow of information between the supervisory authorities of the Member States and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority more specific? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u187	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u188	Mr Marshal, High Senate, this is already a technical solution and the law only mentions it as a platform for such mutual exchange of information, coordinated between the supervision of individual Member States and the EU body, so-called. EIOPA. But I will say that the technical issues are no longer the subject of this regulation. And to ask how all this is going to be technically resolved, I can't answer here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u189	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla have submitted their speeches in the minutes. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska also submitted a statement to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic. The text of the Act is contained in print No 315 and the committee's report In print No 315 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Infrastructure yesterday at its meeting was discussing the bill... I would just like to remind you that there was a government project that came to us, but in addition to the government project, there was also a project that was prepared by a group of Members. They were then integrated and we were proceding, we had already consulted the common text, consistent. At its meeting, the committee adopted one amendment proposed by the legislator and asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. I would just like to add that at the committee meeting we had such attention and a big request to the government that the information campaign be conducted in a fair manner, mainly for this reason... The point is not that there is such a feeling that these regulations make it, as the Minister said, but I think we will all agree on it, as if the myth of a impunity pedestrian. Each of us, and as a pedestrian, and as a driver, has different experiences with the second group of road users. We believe that there is certainly a need for solutions that aim to increase pedestrian safety. I also think it would be good to check after a year's validity of this bill... The point is to monitor the accident so far and see if it's true. And we all hope so. These rules will change something and will the number of accidents, especially those involving pedestrians, decrease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u191	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Alexander Swed, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question for you, was there any mention of... Because when it comes to the nature of the changes in the bill that are proposed, we have not heard much here in the report. However, we know that this amendment of the Act aims to increase the safety of pedestrians on the roads by giving them priority when entering the pedestrian crossing, as well as by prohibiting the use of mobile phones and other similar devices when crossing the road. I have a question: was the committee meeting talking about the penalty for pedestrians in the event of failure to comply with these provisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u193	Unfortunately, there was no mention of the punishment of a pedestrian using either a mobile phone or an electronic device when entering the roadway or a pedestrian crossing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u194	Thank you. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u195	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have this question: why change or introduce rules that are already in place? I, while on the move, moving in a car, have been observing the growth of culture for many months, especially on pedestrian crossings; mostly cars stand and wait as the pedestrians arrive there. That's one thing. Secondly, how would you like to measure the distance between cars in motion? That's the second question. And three: why do you give up a rule that's been going on for so many years, and there's no record of any misdemeanor accidents? At least I don't know those numbers if they are. This is about reducing the speed to 50 km/h at night in a built-up area. Those are my three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u196	As for the first question, why change, I think the main reason for the change is the statistics that are included in the opinions on the Senate website. The number of accidents is clearly shown there, which, unfortunately, is not decreasing and is growing. And by looking at whether on social media or in the press, we see that there are a lot of these things. And it is known that in a collision with a car, tram or other pedestrian vehicle it is certainly more vulnerable to health damage or loss of life than the driver of the vehicle. So I think that I would answer this question in such a way: we protect the change of the weaker ones. When it comes to limiting to 50 km/h at night, we talked about it. I think the Minister will tell you in detail where that entry came from. In different countries it is regulated differently, in some countries this speed at night is the same as in the day, and in some countries it is reduced. However, as I recall, the number of night accidents is also due to the excessive speed of vehicles. And the middle question I don't remember. Why don't you tell the senator again? [[There you go.]] [[How will the distance between vehicles be measured in motion?]] I see. There was no question of how it would be measured. I think these are specific questions for the technical services. It was merely a question of whether the distance measurement should not be converted into a time measurement. However, I think that all this depends on the road infrastructure. Anyway, she was talking about how she could be enriched with warning lines. Well, there's different distance sensors in the cars, too. This will certainly improve the functioning on the road, make it easier to measure this distance between vehicles.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u197	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My question is partly in line with Mr. Dowhan's question, and part of the question is, Senator Poor's answer. I would like to ask if there was an argument that this provision about, let's say, keeping a distance equal to half the number that determines the speed of the vehicle is ambiguous. First of all, there's no way that the driver who drives the car would have been able to judge that well. Secondly, this can be used by speed and distance control services. Well, it's inconclusive, this rule should be specified somehow. Thank you very much. [[Thank you...]] If that wasn't the case at the committee meeting, then I'm gonna ask the Minister for an answer or someone who represents the government side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u199	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u200	We talked about these measurements in part at the committee meeting. We even wondered if we should enter a certain distance, e.g. 50 m or 60 m. But if there's a speed limit on the highway, if this maximum speed is not allowed, then the distance will change too. As for how this will be measured, I think the technical services would have to comment here by now. I hope the Minister will answer the question of how this will be measured. I think the police need to buy these devices, instruments, because it's gonna be difficult to move. I think it would be a good idea to enrich the road infrastructure with those lines that you often hear about. But these are the details we didn't talk about at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u201	Thank you. Senator Gogacz is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u202	I have a question about the amended article. 13. What is new in this article is, of course, a record of pedestrians entering the pedestrian crossing taking precedence over the vehicle. What I was thinking was this exception: except for the tram. Well, if it's the senator's opinion... Was there any discussion at the committee meeting on this matter? Isn't it like we're forcing a pedestrian to just start distinguishing whether it's a tram or a car? That's my first question. Do you think that's appropriate? The second question concerns talking on the cell phone while crossing the pedestrian crossing. It's about the words I'm going to quote here. Well, it's forbidden to use a cell phone, etc., etc. What I am now going to quote is very important: in a way that reduces the possibility of observing the situation on the road, track or pedestrian crossing. As I understand it, it's not like you're not allowed to talk on the phone at all. It is forbidden to talk in a way that hinders observation. Don't you think it might be too complicated? Either it's forbidden or it's not prohibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u203	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u204	As for the tram, there was no mention of that at the committee meeting. However, we held talks before and after the meeting. As far as I can remember, from what I've seen, it appears that in the case of the tram, there were passengers standing in it. As the tram stops violently, they move, and it can cause some kind of mutilation or injury to the body. Well, we've been thinking about that argument, too, and I think it's up to the Minister to answer that question. In this case, the bus, where passengers often do not only sit but also stand, should be switched off here. The bus also carries passengers. Here we would have to ask the Minister what argument he had made that this tram was indicated here. I heard that argument, but we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. As far as the use of the phone is concerned, there was no mention of that at the committee meeting either. I absolutely think that it's... it's maybe a little vague, but it's been introduced at all. There hasn't been a record of that before. Yes? I think most of us, if not all of us, see situations like this, that people going through the door texting, talking on the phone. It certainly doesn't help to improve safety. How will this be enforced? I think there will be specific regulations for that, because it cannot be written down in the bill. This needs to be translated into both the language of the regulation and the criminal rules. How will this be enforced or enforced and punished? I think the Minister will have to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u205	Thank you. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I'm sorry that you've been staged, let's say, on the front line for this revision. The first question should be this: do you drive a car? Do you drive a car? [[Of course.]] But under what circumstances? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Whether on motorways and in large cities, where pedestrian and vehicle traffic is separated, or for example. in small towns where this pedestrian can enter the passageway at any time?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u207	Mr. Senator, that certainly wasn't the subject of the committee's work. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm afraid of further questions.]] [[No, it's okay. We're done here. And I'm serious now...]] But in order to satisfy the senator's curiosity, I'll say on the highways, and in small towns too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u208	Good. So we've got a full view of the situation. [[Yes.]] The first question about overtaking. I'll quote the recipe because he's very curious. We have a rule: distance, we know, half speed... But this rule does not apply during the overtaking maneuver. Does that mean, so logically, that if I'm going to do an overtaking maneuver, which is bound by e.g. With a change of lane, I'll have to do it in such a way that... the same question will go to the Minister. Let's say I'm going 100 kilometers an hour. At a distance of 50 meters behind the car that's ahead of me, I need to turn on the direction indicator, because I need to signal that I'm going to be doing an overtaking maneuver, and I'm going to start this maneuver right now. Please note that if we don't put it this way, the effect will be that any approach to the car that's right in front of us... If I break this rule, I can cover myself with this, and I can say that I wanted to do an overtaking, and I haven't turned on the direction indicator yet. What's it gonna look like technically? I can't imagine. And a second question, if you don't mind. It'll be about that lucky or miserable pedestrian on the aisle. I'll quote two recipes. Added lips. Article 1a 13: pedestrians entering the pedestrian passage have priority over the vehicle. Well, let's leave the trams on the side. And lips. 3, which already exists, second sentence in the mouth. 3, which is not changed: pedestrians are obliged to give priority to vehicles. Again, lips. The third sentence of the first sentence may explain... Crossing the road beyond pedestrian crossings, etc., etc. It's... And then there's the second sentence: pedestrians are obliged to give priority to vehicles. And now we add this rule: pedestrians entering the pedestrian passage have priority over the vehicle. Isn't that what you think you're arguing about? Well, maybe I missed something. How can we explain this issue of priority?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u209	Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna explain this because it wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd have to print myself a valid text... All I have to do is change the bill. I think the Minister will be the right person to address this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u210	Thank you. Now I'm asking you to ask Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question about statistics. In one of the answers to your questions, you were talking about statistics. Were there statistics presented at the committee meeting on how far the number of fatal accidents has increased in pedestrian crossings and in what time frame? How are these statistics shaped? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u212	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u213	No accident statistics were presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u214	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Gogacz has already asked my question in part. I promise I won't ask you any more questions, we'll use the Minister's presence. But if a pedestrian passes through a two-lane and takes precedence, the two lanes of the car stand... [[But two lanes in one direction?]] In one direction. There's a track and there's a tram, so the pedestrian has to step down and stand on the lanes, whether the cars are standing or something. The one on the right lane can go, and the one on the left lane is standing? [[I think...]] That's my first question. Second question. If the number of accidents wasn't presented, how do you know there's more? How does this apply to the construction of infrastructure or the increase in the number of cars on Polish streets?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u217	Maybe I'll start at the end. Even if no statistics were presented at the committee meeting, as I said, in the opinion on the Senate website, this statistics are included. As regards infrastructure, the Minister pointed out that a road infrastructure enrichment programme will soon be launched to improve the safety of the changes, the amendment of the law. I know that this program has probably already been consulted with the voivodships and is to be announced soon so that the municipalities or road owners can apply for protection or for the creation of such belts, so that if there are more lanes in one direction and in the other the same way, there are places between them where pedestrians can wait so that they don't have to go all the way right away, because then cars can actually drive on the other side. And we know that it often happens that when there are 2 lanes, then when we cross the road, if even the driver on one lane We don't always have a guarantee that the one on the other lane will do the same. So I'm sure this infrastructure improvement is needed, but the Minister assured us... I think that we will check and monitor, firstly, when this competition is announced and secondly, how effective it will be to create this infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u218	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft laws were brought forward by Members and Government. Mr Michał Szczerba has been authorized to present the position of the applicant for the parliamentary bill, contained in Seymary Print No 48. Would you like to speak on this law? Welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u219	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is a great pleasure for me to inform you that what we are working on today is the result of two parliamentary projects, a project of the Civic Coalition, which I had the honour of presenting, and a project of the Left, and a government project. I think there are moments, there are moments in which we should act beyond divisions. And it seems that the question of human life and the safety of pedestrians in an ageing society is the most important issue. In fact, we enter a circle of civilized countries, a circle of Western European countries, Scandinavia, where the priority of pedestrians is simply obvious. And right now, we're trying to write this standard in an appropriate way in a legal act. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention. Just for one thing. Because there was a question about statistics, traffic accident data. There were nearly 39 thousand road accidents in 2019. But let's see, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the question of the dead. 2 000 909 people died on Polish roads. A very large group of those killed are pedestrians. I would also like to draw attention to one more point, that the most numerous group of people killed 914 people, or 31.4% The population was over 60 years of age. We as Sejm and Senate must take responsibility for the issues of an ageing society. There are more and more people with dementia, a group of people with dementia, limited perception, independent or disabled. All this means that we, as legislators, must also respond to these challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, the key issue in this law is that pedestrians get protection by entering the pedestrian transition. This pedestrian transition must be a safety refuge for him. He must be fully aware that by passing through the passageway, he is safe. This is the main purpose of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the project was based on 2 parliamentary projects and a government project. I would like to say that, of course, this required some compromises on our part. We, as the Civic Coalition, have considered and still believe that the priority of pedestrians should also apply to those waiting to be able to enter the transition. In Norway, France, Switzerland, for example, such solutions exist. But we understand that we're in a transition period. As the rapporteur said, one year after the entry into force of this law, we believe that a specific audit, a specific review of the new legislation, will have to be carried out in order to ensure that they have worked. The issue of education and information campaign is a very important element mentioned by the rapporteur. It will be the responsibility of the Ministry and the National Road Safety Council. We count very much, Minister, that you are very well prepared for this. This period of several months will be a very short period and, in fact, depending on how this campaign will be conducted, it depends on whether all road users in our country and pedestrians and drivers will be fully aware that the new rules come into force on this date that we have agreed together. Once again, I would like to ask for action over division. This is a matter of life and, therefore, I ask your senators to work constructively. We are ready after a possible legislative amendment, which we also support, start work next week and adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u220	Mr. President, there may still be questions for you. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of applicants related to the item on the agenda. No such questions. Thank you. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk has been authorised to present the position of the applicant of the parliamentary draft law contained in Seym printing No 803. Would you like to... [[Mr Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak: Yes.]] Very careful, because there are stairs here. You're welcome, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u221	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said today, what we are discussing is the result of the work of both the government and the Members of the opposition, the Left and the Civic Coalition, is the result of discussions in the subcommittees, the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and the work of the Parliamentary Road Safety Team. Above all, however, it is the result of pressure, as well as many years of work and treatments of organizations that are fighting to improve road safety, to improve the safety of pedestrians on Polish roads. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all these activists, all the activists, all the representatives of the organisations that bring together the families of the victims of road accidents, for the pressure they put on them, for their commitment and perseverance, because, indeed, in order to get to the place where we are today, this perseverance was essential. It took a long time. Unfortunately, in my opinion, I know that also in the assessment of many colleagues, colleagues of parliamentarians, it took too long and the price is tragedies of many thousands of Polish families. Today's project in its current shape is certainly a step in the right direction, in terms of improving pedestrian safety and improving safety on Polish roads. But at the same time it must be honestly said that this is a step far insufficient, a step less courageous than the announcement of Prime Minister Morawiecki in his 2019 exposé, and, above all, it is a step not sufficient in terms of the challenges and needs of road safety. Limit priority to the priority of pedestrians entering and staying in the transition, skipping at the same time pedestrians waiting to enter the pedestrian transition, partial shift of liability to pedestrians using electronic devices, impreciseness of the rules that apply to pedestrians using electronic devices, or lack of solutions for improving road safety outside the built-up area It is only a few examples of the obvious weaknesses of the project in its current form. These are weaknesses and you need to be aware of them, weaknesses that need attention, and as a Left we will consistently do so. These are the weaknesses to address... which will have to be resolved, in our opinion, already in the course of subsequent amendments. It remains to be hoped that further amendments to the road traffic law will not have to wait as long as we all had to wait for the current project. But we agree that although this is a minimum step, it is a step in the right direction. This is a step that leads us to an objective that, above political divisions, should be the objective of road safety policy, i.e. vision zero, i.e. complete elimination of accidents with fatal effect on Polish roads, including pedestrian crossings. Therefore, as has already been said here today, the Left Club is also open for quick work and ready to continue to proceed to this step At least once again, I would stress: the minimum could be achieved so that in the future we could go in the direction outlined by this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Member. At present, senators may submit a request to the authorised representative of applicants from a place lasting no more than one minute. Are there any questions? There's a question. Senator Dowhan volunteered. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u223	Thank you very much. You mentioned that there was a vague notion of how pedestrians enter the pedestrian passage and how pedestrians expect. I don't really understand what you're talking about, how one has to do with the other.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u224	I wasn't exactly referring to the imprecise wording of this provision. But with regard to the distinction between pedestrians entering and pedestrians waiting to enter the pedestrian transition, the project in its shape today gives priority to pedestrians entering or already in the pedestrian transition. According to the Left, according to the parliamentary project of the Left Club, which we have submitted to the pedestrians' priority should also include a pedestrian waiting to enter the pedestrian transition, expressing a clear intention to enter this transition. The parliamentary majority did not agree to this solution, nor did it gain the acceptance of the government side. Therefore, we will continue in the next projects, in subsequent amendments, to seek to broaden the priority of pedestrians also waiting for pedestrians to enter the pedestrian transition, as is the case in many European countries, including those who can boast more satisfactory statistics as regards the mortality of pedestrian accidents. That's what my point was. But I am aware that there is no political will to take this priority and to increase the safety of the waiting pedestrians as well. It is a song of the future, though, I hope it is more or less distant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u225	Are there any other questions for you? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Mr Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak: Thank you kindly.]] Would Minister Rafał Weber like to speak on the bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The four main issues are related to the government bill we are discussing today. The first issue is to give priority to a pedestrian who enters the pedestrian crossing. Today, pedestrians are given priority on the pedestrian crossing, and we extend this priority and include pedestrians who will enter the pedestrian crossing. Secondly, we prohibit the use of phones when passing through the road, we prohibit the use of phones and other electronic devices that distract perception, distract attention and which may have bad consequences when passing through the road. Thirdly, we harmonise the permitted speed in the built-up area. Today, this maximum permitted speed between 23.00 and 5.00 a.m. is up to 60 km/h, and after 5.00 a.m. to 23.00 is 50 km/h. We standardize this speed to 50 km/h. These are practices in other European countries, these are the rules in countries west of Poland, and I think it is also worth introducing such a provision with us. Here I immediately answer one of the questions that came up in the discussion, and yesterday it was also asked at the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure. Well, in 2019 there were eighty. A few pedestrian victims from between 11:00 and 5:00 a.m. Therefore, it is also worth interfering and calming traffic during the night, even though there is less intensity, which is understandable. And the fourth issue The one which, according to the discussion heard, raises the most... well, maybe not the doubts, but the most questions about the detail of this issue. It's a so-called ban. Bumper ride. It is worth noting that this ban will apply on high-speed roads, i.e. motorways and expressways, and it will also be expressed in meters... The speed that the driver will travel, we divide by 2, from which we will have a minimum distance that we will be obliged to keep from the vehicle that will move ahead. So if we drive at a speed of 120 km/h, the minimum distance from the vehicle ahead is 60 m. So that is the case with the proposals that have been prepared by the government. Some of these proposals were announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in his exposé, and today we come to implement them. I would also like to stress very strongly and say this with full responsibility that I would not be here, we would not propose these regulations, if not for other systemic changes which we want to make when it comes to building safety on Polish roads. The first systemic change is defined by the "Safe infrastructure' programme, which will be adopted in the form of a resolution at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, most likely next Tuesday. In principle, we already have PLN 2.5 billion budgeted for this programme and within 4 years, in the period 2021.2024, these funds will be used for spot investments in national road networks such as the lighting of pedestrian crossings, improving the environment of pedestrian crossings, construction of pavements, walking-bike lines, safe crossings, whether with light signaling, whether in the form of roundabouts, building asylums where possible, building coves where necessary. So that it will be a point investment in national road networks over the next four years. Of course, these investments have been carried out and have been carried out over the last years, but now we will be making more of these investments in countries motivated by these regulations. Another important infrastructure element, investment, is that the same investments will be carried out by local governments, municipalities and powiats within the additional financial envelope that was secured in 2020. This month, the Voivodeships will announce recruitment for projects from the Government Road Development Fund, where we will allocate over PLN 500 million just for investments consisting of, among others. on improvement of pedestrian transitions. Lighting in an appropriate way, marking or construction of another infrastructure, which affects the safety of pedestrian crossings, all of which can be financed from the Government Road Development Fund. And very quickly, because, as I said, this month, the voivods will announce this recruitment. I will mention very briefly the national road construction programme, where the main importance was given to the construction of high-speed roads. I will also mention our 100 bypass programme, which will also affect road safety. Circumventions of cities and towns with sometimes compact and very narrow buildings are also important from the point of view of road safety. So that this investment sphere is being conducted, but thanks to the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice, which have been taken so de facto in the previous year, it will be increased. Another very important issue that we discussed in the Seym and in the Senate on the occasion of this project is an educational campaign. Yes, the educational campaign in connection with these regulations must be very large, it must reach anyone who uses Polish road infrastructure every day, and in fact we all use it, whether driving a vehicle, whether walking or cycling. We have already prepared advertising spots, they at the right time, when these regulations will enter into force, and according to the record they are to enter into force on 1 June this year... Then this campaign will be launched so that this public awareness of the correct and correct attitudes of both pedestrians and drivers is mass. As part of this educational campaign, we want to reach out to every participant in the road, and basically to every Pole and every Pole. We have funds for this, more than PLN 30 million, of which 28 million are funds from the Operational Programme of Infrastructure and the environment. These spots are actually filmed, and we're waiting, colloquially speaking, to launch them when the time of entry into force of these laws is approaching. And another element, which is also ahead of us, but this may be a further future, calculated in months or quarters, is also the strengthening of executions. Many of you also draw attention to the need for a speeding system to work more efficiently and that anyone who commits a speeding offence faster than the speed limit be punished. We're working on a system that's gonna improve the downloadability of speed cameras. So that these changes, when it comes to strengthening executions, are also ahead of us. Therefore, I should say yes, by the end of my introduction, consider this law part of a system solution that is related to improvements in road traffic. Of course, we will monitor its effects, we will monitor its effects, and if there is a need for corrections, we are not blocked either. We will not insist if any solutions need to be improved or changed. We firmly believe that, thanks to our comprehensive actions, also through this law, road safety will be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u227	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to a government representative relating, of course, to this item on the agenda. [[Senator Dowhan.]] Two senators came forward before the senator. Senator Gogacz. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u228	Minister, in a revised article. 13 of the Act in question, as regards paragraph 13. 1, is the obligation to be particularly careful when entering the road, on the track, etc., and in the added mouth. 1a, when it comes to entering the pedestrian crossing or already staying on the pedestrian crossing, this obligation of special caution has been omitted. It seems even more strange to me that it was in the questions that I had already asked the Senator of the rapporteur that I pointed out that pedestrians had priority over vehicles, excluding the tram. And now that there's no special caution yet... However, this duty of caution does not seem to be overlooked. My second question concerns the use of a phone on a pedestrian pass. What you said... You said you shouldn't use it. As far as the point is concerned. Article 8 14, this country in the second part of this standard you enter: in a way that reduces the possibility of observing the situation on the road, track or pedestrian crossing. And my question is, can you use your phone or not? Does that mean you can use it when it gives you the opportunity to observe? I'm asking you to explain this. And the third question. Very often in the bill, in this novel we are dealing with, we are talking about a pedestrian transition. Isn't it your idea to define this pedestrian transition? Because I think we still assume that the situation is happening in the day, and that there are also situations at night. What do you think of pedestrian crossings that aren't lit up? Should we then impose an obligation on drivers to slow down to a minimum so that they can see this passage? In short, do you not think that you should simply lead to a new definition of pedestrian transitions That every pedestrian crossing should be visible and illuminated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u229	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u230	Thank you very much. I'll start with question number three. I mentioned it a little bit in my speech. We will want every pedestrian crossing, or at least those that are under the management of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, to illuminate. Already, the vast majority are lit up. Maybe not in a perfect way, maybe not in a dedicated way, which is not the way it should be. But as part of the Safe Road Infrastructure Programme, we will want every pedestrian crossing that is located within the national road, even in a built-up area, and mostly in a built-up area, although the lighting unit of the local government is responsible for... Even in such a place we will want to install this lighting, so that pedestrians can be seen on the pedestrian crossing, but of course in its close surroundings too. So that is the task that we have set ourselves as part of road investments. With regard to Question No 1 and not at the time of entry... Well, we recognize that someone who will take special care and enter the pedestrian passage will be able to cross it freely. And here it is enough to fill this one element so that you can safely, safely, safely and safely move to the other side of the road. Question two got away from me, Senator. [[I was asking for cell phones.]] Oh, the cell phones... [[About the records...]] I mean, in my opinion, in principle, always using a cell phone kind of disrupts concentration, disrupts... [[Voice from the room: Perception.]] ...perception. Anyway, from a study that was carried out a few years ago. But phones, smartphones or other electronic devices are becoming more popular and especially the younger part of the Polish society is looking at them as in the picture • It turned out that this is the most common cause of road accidents, which lies on the side of pedestrians. This study also showed that 85% accidents in pedestrian crossings are due to the driver's fault. But when it comes to the reasons that lie on the pedestrian side, it is the distraction of the attention on the mobile phone. That's why it's a different form of writing. This form was of course consulted with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which is, I understand, also with the Police, which will already implement these laws and will take appropriate action on their basis if there are such events or, Lord God, do not give to road accidents. So it is a provision that has been very strongly consulted and agreed with the police. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, Ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u231	Mr. Senator, there's another one waiting. There's another one waiting. [[But I just want... because the Minister hasn't answered my question about...]] And if he didn't answer, of course. It's not ad vocem, it's just that the Minister didn't answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u232	I'm talking about the second part of the record in point 8. As I understand it, the Minister said it's forbidden to use phones. But in the second part, there is a record such as this: in a way that leads to a limitation of the possibility of observing the situation on the road, track or crossing. So it's not forbidden to use a phone in any situation when a pedestrian passes through the road, you can pass through and somehow use the phone, just in a way that allows you to observe the terrain. Don't you think you should put a dot on the words and on the walkway? Because you've written down a situation that might make it harder for you to interpret it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u233	No, you don't. I told you that this provision was agreed with the police, i.e. those who would be responsible for the proper execution and then assess the situation. And that's why it was designed in one way, not another.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u234	Minister, I have questions for you. Of course, I have similar objections about this provision concerning the use of the phone, because such wording will cause interpretation disputes: is this already a situation that prevents the use of the phone or not? Because this record... I understand the police agree to this, but it's going to cause interpretational disputes, and it's serious. It's gonna have to be somehow... In fact, it seems that judicial decisions will lead to an assessment on a case-by-case basis. But, Minister, I want to ask you if the introduction of this type of legislation in other countries... Here's a rule that includes priority in the transition situation. 'Cause once you're on it, of course, that priority is guaranteed. Or at the time of the step... etc. Isn't that... If you can tell me if the rules of this kind in other countries, if those rules are there... And I know that there are laws that say that pedestrians are protected as they approach the transition. Did this reduce the accident rate, the extent of accidents that pedestrians undergo? I have some concerns, and that's why I'm asking you this question. However, the principle of limited trust in road traffic applies. If I'm going into the passageway, I'm just making sure there's a car on the way. Right now, I'm gonna make sure I have priority. Isn't this going to be a situation where there's going to be entrances to... well, it gives you psychological protection... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that when you get on the road, you have security, and that's... Therefore, I ask you what statistics look like in countries that have introduced similar solutions. Well, not the same, of course, but similar. In one case only I have no priority and I should make sure that when the tram goes. It's understandable to me, because the road to braking the car is a few meters, a maximum of a dozen. [[Depends on what car it is.]] At speeds of up to 50 km/h it is basically a few meters, while the tram has a braking road of approx. 30 m. Maybe these newer trams have shorter ones, but it's still a big difference. Therefore, there can be no situation that I enter the passageway and the tram must stop. Well, he won't stop. For me, it is understandable why this exception applies to trams. If you can answer that, I'd ask for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u235	But of course, Mr. Marshal, no problem at all. As far as the phones are concerned, my request is as follows. Yeah, it's just the use of cell phones. Let us communicate this in a very simple way: we do not use these phones when we cross the road or when we cross the pedestrian crossing. And let's get everyone to do that. And younger, and older. I think if we put the cell phone in your pocket or in your purse for 15 seconds, it's really gonna be okay. If we write a text a little later, if we check a message a little later, when we pick up the phone a little later, if we call a little later, no one gets hurt, no one's gonna get the crown off their heads. That's why we're going to want to communicate in a very simple way: banning the use of mobile phones when you go through the pedestrian crossing and every time you cross the road. Such a communication should come from all sides, and I ask you very warmly. As far as the senator's second question is concerned, statistics place Poland fourth from the end in terms of road safety. So that we have something to do in this area, and we have someone to model on, and we have someone to chase in this statistics. But we can't stand the obligation of pedestrians to be extra careful. Such an obligation will still exist in the legislation. That's what Senator Gogacz was talking about. When you enter the pedestrian crossing, you will need to take special care. Well, I remember being taught in kindergarten: left, right, left. We move our head like this to make sure no car is coming, and if it's coming, it's at a distance. When he's close, he sees us and stops us. That's the basic rule that should be taught, and she'll be taught. Not only through educational campaigns, but also in lessons. Yesterday, the question was, what is the issue of school education when it comes to communication education. Well, by decision of 2017, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk's decision, communication education was extended. Previously, it was led to the third grade, and now it's also in fourth, fifth and sixth grade, as part of a technical class. So that we are working on a young generation, so that it learns these principles. It's about safety. It's about road safety. The principle of special caution remains in the law and this is also what we need to communicate to pedestrians. There's no such thing as a ruthless priority. Sometimes you can hear something like this in media messages or even from politicians, but there is no such thing as absolute priority. Each pedestrian will have to take special care when entering the passageway. There are also other prohibitions that result from the bill. We hate these bans, and even add another eighth ban, the one associated with the use of mobile phones or other electronic devices. [[Can you use it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u236	Minister, what are the number of accidents in other countries that have introduced such restrictions? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u237	It is much smaller than in Poland. [[Is it much smaller?]] Yes. [[Is it falling?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u238	Thank you. Now you're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, you listed four points here, Minister. I agree, but the fifth one you talked about most about is basic. In my opinion, we have no moral right to force such a person, not any other behavior, except, of course, the law established, until we ourselves lead to the fact that the pedestrians in the passage will be safe. You said we were going to build transitions on national roads. I think that they are mostly needed on local roads, those with sometimes less traffic, but not illuminated, those on which pedestrian traffic and car traffic are inseparable, on which pedestrians simply move on the road, and also in built-up areas, because there are the most of them. Don't you think you should start by simply changing the definition of pedestrian crossings? It is very simple: the road surface, roads for bicycles or tracks designed to cross pedestrians marked with appropriate road signs. Here the road signs mark is, but it can be just an invisible passage, poorly lit. Isn't it simple to just attach here the need to light the transition, which especially now, in the age of technological development, is very simple because it's 2 led lamps opposite each other? It's really working out. And you can give the right vacathio legis, the right transition period for mostly the municipalities, because mostly they and the counties of the district are the managers of these local roads, just illuminate those transitions that are? These new transitions will not arise too much, we are not talking about new ones, but about those that are. And then we'll have a moral right to apologize for expressing the complicated things that happen in the transition, because we'll say: you, pedestrian, are visible, and you, driver, be careful of that. That's the first line. And, of course, you have to give money for it, help municipalities and counties, especially counties, because these have the biggest financial problems. Second line. The question will be tricky, and I'll tell you why: because there will be another question later. Why did you disable the trams from these regulations? They have a different status than cars. I don't think anybody's gonna deny that it's as painful to meet a pedestrian with a tram that's going at 50 km/h. Why is it off? Well, there's got to be a reason, and I'd like to hear it, and then we'll pull it out. And last but not least: why is there no clarity of the rules? Why is it not written directly: you must not use mobile phones on the transition? Then it would be clear. And so it's different in the rules, and we're supposed to explain it differently. That's what the Minister suggested. So who are these rules for? For lawyers, for insurance companies? Well, that's what I'm feeling. This pedestrian will be hit, and then he will judge himself, and the driver will prove that he had a cell phone in front of his eyes. And he's gonna say no, I had my hand in my pocket, and that's where I kept the phone. Well, Minister, the best thing is the clarity of the rules and simplicity of those rules. And here's the last question, the fourth question. Driving a vehicle on the highway, expressway, this distance as half the speed... I mean, if he's gonna do an overtaking exercise... If he turns on the direction indicator, he can follow that car a few miles ahead of him and he's gonna say he's still gonna do the overtaking maneuver. Is that even possible? He'll be 10 meters behind that one, he'll say he wants to make a maneuver overtaking, because then the recipe doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u240	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u241	As far as the first question is concerned, as I said, we have additional funds to give them to the local authorities, and these, with their participation, their financial effort, will highlight all the pedestrian transitions, all the ones on which they apply, all the ones on which they decide to do so, I understand, the most necessary ones. Here one of the criteria will also be accidents on such a pedestrian transition: the more accidents, the higher the conclusion will be on the list and will have a better chance of funding. From our audit it is clear that all pedestrian crossings should be illuminated, and we are moving in this direction. We don't want to put it into the law at this point, which means we don't use a stick, we just give a carrot, we give a chance, we give money to do it. I think this is the optimal solution right now. Question two: why are trams excluded from this? This question was partly answered by the Senator rapporteur. In fact, trams have a longer braking path. That's the fact of the research. This exemption was also consulted with carriers, with those responsible for organising tram transport in Poland and is the result of these consultations. So far it has not aroused, at least at the seymium stage, any greater doubts. Cell phones. Well, here I can only repeat what I said before. The provision was consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration considered that this was the best formulation in terms of potential activities related to determining who was guilty in some road accident. That's why this recipe looks like this, not different. I'll repeat what I said before. In social communication Let us use the simplest message: it is forbidden to use mobile phones when crossing the road. That's it. That's it. That's where we should go. As far as overtaking is concerned, the provision related to the ban on driving to the bumper and the setting of this meter distance already exists in the Polish legal order. In the tunnels we are forbidden to drive within 80 m of the vehicle ahead of us and it does not cause controversy, it does not raise doubts. Similar rules exist in other countries of the European Union, so that we do not invent powder here, we do not discover America, but we are based on what has been applied in other European countries for many years, where accident statistics are far better than we do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u242	Senator Czerwinski wants to ask, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u243	Yes, Mr. Marshal. We want to protect the pedestrians, mostly on the crossings. But they're not just moving there. First line, completely sidelined. At the moment, it is mandatory to carry a retro-reflective element in an unbuilt area. Don't you want to stretch it out, don't you want to cover the built-in areas? Sometimes it gets worse and darker than in an unbuilt area. You can't see these pedestrians just, there's no sidewalks in the countryside. These people walk on the road in this village, and unfortunately we will only see them at short lights at a very short distance. Minister, you put it well... In the case of trams, you apply the laws of physics. It's got more weight, so it's harder to stop it just. So if you approach consistently... Unfortunately, as far as the rules on transition are concerned, these rights do not apply. If you apply the principle that a pedestrian is less protected, less protected not only on the road, but also on the track... Then why not give a recipe for trains to stop from pedestrians and motorists to pay attention? It's just going down a dead end. Yeah, pedestrians are less protected when they're in contact with the car, but who's supposed to be more careful? The doggy is an alien element on the road. I'm a pedestrian, and I'm a driver, as probably all of us here... mostly pedestrians. Why? Because he's got, so to speak, a smaller braking path, shorter. If he gets in the wrong way just thoughtlessly, his braking path is one step, half a meter. He can come back. What about the car? Different, depending on the speed. It's basic, physics. Well, then maybe we shouldn't go in the direction of creating controversial situations that lawyers will be happy about, as I said, and insurance companies, but in the direction that I say we don't dig into physics. He's supposed to be careful how he gets on the road, whether he walks outside or he walks in the aisle. That's why I asked you about your mouth. 3 to the added paragraph. 1a. 'Cause now it's like when he walks in the aisle, he can go in, and when he walks out the aisle, he has to be very careful. It's falling apart. He should always be careful, because it's his health, his life. I know it's obvious, but it's the hardest way to explain it. Tautology just... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Not the Minister... I explain this to those who will apply these rules later, and especially to our citizens. No one, my fellow citizens, is releasing you from caution. Rather, you should write down something to force you to be careful about the transition. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'm sorry. Let me ask you a question, Mr. Marshal. Doesn't the Minister share my reasoning that this is how we force pedestrians to be careful, because they can get out of a conflict situation easier? I'm not saying that the driver shouldn't be careful. On the contrary. Crazy people driving at 130 km/h in the city should be punished. Very good is a recipe that says you can only drive 50 km/h at night. It's a very good recipe, because it's the worst, then it's the worst visibility. But, Minister, let's treat everyone equally. Everyone should take care of their health and their lives. Don't you think that the breach we're making right now, and in an unclear situation, when it comes to pedestrians in the passageway, it could end with this... We're gonna make beautiful recipes, and then we're gonna have to explain ourselves. Shouldn't we start with the lighting go through? I'm saying it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u244	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u245	We do everything together, it goes together. Like I said, there's law, there's road investments, there's an educational campaign. This will all be happening together from the turn of May and June of this year. And only then will it be effective. Let me repeat: I wouldn't have come here with the bill, I wouldn't have dared to take this step if it hadn't been for road investments and if it hadn't been for a thoughtful educational campaign. I confirm that all these three things, which are systematically prepared, are meant to produce results, and I firmly believe that these effects will be effective. This is shown by other European countries in which the law is constructed in a similar way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u246	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Our questions are basically the same thing. The Minister himself admitted that we were creating law first, and then we would be conducting education and changing transitions. Why isn't it the other way around? Why haven't they invested in transitions for so many years, in lighting, in modern things that are already in the West? Today we are debating whether the tram will brake on the 30 m section and whether the pedestrian who will look at the phone will be guilty or not. What if he reads the paper? It's not electronics. Well, it's all a little confusing. Of course, nothing can replace common sense, as I will say in my speech. Once again, everything is done the other way around. Campaign, investing in transitions... Why is this happening, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u249	I have a completely different opinion on this subject. Everything that I'm saying goes hand in hand, everything happens pretty much at the same time. Why make an educational campaign earlier, six months before these regulations are introduced? What would be the point and purpose of this? It wouldn't make any sense or purpose. We want to run the campaign several days before 1 June, so that as many Poles as possible know what the new rules are regarding pedestrian crossings, both those Poles who walk on the roads, use pedestrian crossings as well as those Poles who drive through these crossings by car. It has to go at the same time and it will go at the same time. Road investments have been carried out not for 2 or 5 years, but for several dozens of years. Of course, we are not able to change all roads, whether national or local, over 3 decades, but investment activities, when it comes to issues such as pedestrian transitions, will multiply. We don't work in a vacuum, we don't start from scratch. We're going to multiply what we've been doing so far. Mr. Senator pointed out that lighting should be mandatory. We want to go in this direction, so that every national road that has a pedestrian crossing is illuminated here, so that this lighting will distinguish a given section of the road. I hope that this program will work out, that it will be implemented quickly enough, because this, in my opinion, will give a very good chance for a measurable and complete effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u250	Thank you. Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u251	Minister, I will try to ask you a few questions quickly enough, but I have a lot of them, unfortunately, as I told you yesterday at the debate. But I'll try pretty quickly. Afraid that some of the provisions of the Act will be dead, I ask the following questions. Amendments to the law prohibiting the so-called "law'. bumper rides require simultaneous measurement of the distance between 2 consecutive vehicles and the speed of the second one. How is this process going to go? Second question: what entities will be entitled to control the enforcement of the rules referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a? Are these entities already equipped with equipment to record possible offences? I asked you that yesterday, too. And what kind of devices are these? How many of these devices are on the service? How much is there gonna be and when about the next groceries? Is the process of legalization of devices for simultaneous measurement of speed and distance between vehicles known? I'm asking you... If there was a road accident and, for example, Someone would charge someone with driving on a bumper, how will it be counted and presented as evidence in the case? Next question: are the devices used to measure the speed and distance between vehicles at the same time stationary devices which will be permanently or temporarily installed in the motorway lane or mobile devices? Will it be necessary for stationary devices to mark the location or sections of the road on which the measurements will be made? If yes, do you know which type of marking will be applied on these sections? Is additional information marking foreseen to assist drivers in the correct determination of the distance from the preceding vehicle? Another question. In the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm afraid the Minister has already forgotten his first question...]] Okay... [[If you could divide it into parts...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Because I see the Minister's not writing it down, and I don't think he'll remember.]] Mr. Marshal, I will be satisfied if the Minister answers these questions in writing. [[Oh, yeah. Then read the rest of the questions.]] Do you mind? There's very little left. [[Of course, you're welcome.]] The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in its materials suggests so-called. a second solution, as in most Western European countries, i.e. the famous 2 seconds or 3 seconds rule. The proposed provisions and the resulting distances conflict with the recommendations promoted by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Why? And that's the last of the questions. The way we calculate the minimum distance we know, it's going to be half the speed. Have you considered the weather conditions of the Act? Driving to the bumper in summer at dry surface and winter at iced surface are two different worlds. And the last two quick questions. Have you considered the obligation of special marking or the obligation of absolute lighting for pedestrians on roads with several lanes in one direction, especially in the area of strict urban buildings, especially in smaller cities? Yesterday we discussed this, the Minister spoke about the fact that there will be asylums at many lanes of traffic at large intersections. My point is that in some cities, especially small cities, it is very often so that there are 2 lanes in one direction, and 2 lanes in the other direction are several dozen or even several hundred meters shifted. So it's the most dangerous place there. Therefore, I am asking... and I am calling for special attention to be paid to such transitions. Because when a pedestrian enters the pedestrian passage and the car on the left lane stops, there is a huge danger, with a great reduction of visibility, in such a strict building that the car on the right lane unfortunately can not stop. And then it's going to be a tragedy. And one last question. The Gambit 2005 programme 2007 It is the National Road Safety Improvement Programme. Minister, this is a program that was created in 2005. As a former self-government officer, I can safely say that no matter who ruled in 2005, it was a great program that worked well. Do you know why? Because there were simple and clear rules, i.e. self-government, trying to finance some transition for pedestrians or some investment on his way, he could easily point out whether he could receive such money. So, a big request: follow the Gambit programme that was already tested in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u252	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Can I get you in writing, Mr. Marshal?]] Good. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: This is in writing.]] Senator Dowhan. Oh, no, for discussion, it's okay... Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] Minister, but this record of mobile phones will be shown in college as an example of how the law does not exist. The law must be clear. Now, ladies and gentlemen... Thanking the Minister once again, I inform you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions raised by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say that I do not deny what was said here, because the safety of all of us, both those who move on their own feet and those behind the wheel, should be paramount. But as my previous speaker, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, said, this law we are making is clear, clear and simple, and not based on populism, as is more or less so in this case. Because it came from a famous accident that took place two years ago, when a crazy driver, probably driving a BMW, hit his father on his belt with a child and they died. It triggered a discussion. During that time, millions of drivers drove safely, followed the rules, gave way to priority, and suddenly there was a fuss that something had to be done about it. There's always gonna be somebody around, hopefully there's as little of them as possible, and hopefully there won't be any at all. Who doesn't pay attention to the regulations, someone who gets behind the wheel after drinking alcohol, someone who wants to take it out because he's gonna get into the car and not watch if it's a city or if it's doggy or if there's kids or if there's a school. These provisions, which you are proposing here, for example the one relating to telephone calls, which involved so many questions addressed to the Minister, also show that this is megaunprecised. Because pedestrians need to take such steps and actions to limit everything possible and to go through with this special caution. So is the driver. There's a lot of talk about pedestrians taking precedence. My father always said to me that those who have priority are long gone in the cemetery. That's the truth, and that's what everyone should remember. Because just because someone's in the aisle doesn't mean they have priority, because the one who's driving can have it, apologize, somewhere. It may not respect the rules, it may be blinded by the sun, it may not notice the pedestrian, it may also happen, what happens sometimes, the fainting or failure of the car. So we need to raise awareness. And that is what I meant, Minister, that we lack this education, that schools lack the towns of traffic that were once popular. I took my driver's license test when I was 16 years old, and I'm still driving, and I haven't done anything wrong, so you can. The rules are changing, today 16-year-olds can forget about having a driver's license, but we can't forget about education, about what I mentioned, and not just me, to start off not on the basis of those regulations, but on the basis of a normal life to invest in infrastructure. Today, LED lighting and solar lighting, where signs and transitions are already lit in many cities, are not very complicated. Special paints, special markings... But look at how the culture of the drivers has increased. I mentioned that this provision was introduced, but it actually already functions in life. I drive and see. Minister, I don't know if you are, but me and most of the drivers are standing up and it doesn't matter if this pedestrian is on the edge or a step ahead or already on the crossing. Yeah, it's rare to have someone run over. But neither we nor the laws that will be able to influence it if we do not have this education when we do not reach people, especially young people who really come to this transition as if it were just for them and not for cars as well. They don't look to the left, they don't look to the right, because they in the back of their head have that right and they have priority. Well, they have priority, but let them look left, look right, like you said, because you never know if anyone's gonna hurt anyone knowingly or unconsciously, because there are different situations in life. Apart from that, Minister... I haven't heard whether there are other work on improving or liquefying traffic, such as those famous green arrows to the right turn that once appear, disappearing once. In order to liquefy traffic in many cities, timepieces appeared at intersections, but these are also phenomena, because there is not much, and this really smooths traffic. There's a lot of things that could be copied today. You're so supportive of the West. From them, e.g. collision-free pedestrian crossings. I can't understand it at all, even though you said 80 people were killed... That's a lot. It's a shame for everyone. But I don't know what caused these accidents. I'm talking about the speed of 60 km/h between 11:00 and 5:00 a.m., especially in small towns where there's practically no traffic. But this allowed speed of 60 km/h so far does not release us from due care or special caution, it does not slow anyone down, neither pedestrians nor cyclists, whatever happens. Whether the sign tells us to go fast or slow when we get behind the wheel, we have to be responsible. And that's what I meant about all the questions I asked. In fact, for 2 years there has been a lot of noise about changes to the rules, but as usual these rules are not fully clarified, there are a lot of doubts. We know... here we're discussing how it's going to be measured. Well, I don't think you can measure it. But every conscious man should know that this distance... This is especially true for tirów [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought that... As a road user I often meet with this and experience it myself, so I think that these distances should be much larger. This education was successful, for example, in the wormhole of life. The case was very well publicized and today it is no longer necessary to talk about it. There's a recipe, but it's like it's in the subconscious, it's from a driving culture, from being in contact with a car, from living situations. The same goes for zipper rides or the hallway of life... It's just my suggestion to make a law, to think about it a little bit and make precise rules so that later... Because, as Senator Czerwiński said, we will debate again at any event later, and the courts will think whether someone was looking at the watch or looking at the phone, looking at whether he could or could not look at it. Let's just keep our common sense, not only by driving a car, but also by passing through pedestrian crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u254	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor... Oh, no. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the following senators have submitted their speeches to the minutes. This was done by Senator Ryszard Śvilski, Senator Mariusz Gromko, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Maciej Łuczak, Senator Jolanta Hibner, Senator Janusz Gromek, Senator Halina Bieda, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Janusz Pęcherz and Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and the Military Ordering Authorities. The text of the Act is contained in print 311 and the report of the Commission In print No 311 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Senate Committee on National Defence on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Orders. Senate Committee on National Defence 11 February this year worked on a law which is contained in Senate printing No 311 as well as in Seym printing No 764. We are dealing with a government submission which was adopted by the Sejm on 21 January 2021. The Act amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities aims to regulate the detailed arrangements for the supervision of specialized armed protective formations, in short called SUFOs, which operate in areas, facilities and equipment of organisational units subordinate to or supervised by the Minister of National Defence. The amendment provides for the supervision of these formations to be exercised by the Minister of National Defence through the Chief Commandant of the Military Gendarmerie. The supervision will concern the organisation, operating rules, weapons and equipment, cooperation with other formations and services, as well as the compliance of the current security status of the unit with the plans. The Military Gendarmerie will have the right to enter the protected areas and facilities, request explanations, access to protective documentation, entry to the premises of the operator carrying out the protective activities and to make written recommendations to remedy the deficiencies found, and adapt the security company's activities to the legal provisions. Surveillance activities will also be able to be recorded. The Act also provides that the Commandant of the Military Police will report to the Minister of National Defence. These are the main objectives of this bill. It is worth noting that in the Act we are talking about supervision, which is exercised by the Minister of National Defence, but this supervision is also exercised by the Chief Police Officer The area under the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior is concerned. I would like to mention here the question that you asked Vice-President Jerzy Wcisła during the discussion: why only to a certain extent The Minister for National Defence Is this amendment going to happen? As Minister Skurkiewicz, present at the meeting of the committee and also present at the Senate, has explained, there have been no previous amendments proposed by the Minister for the Interior or the Chief Commissioner in this area. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski also spoke in the discussion, who informed that the work in this area had been expected much earlier and even started. It is about the work on this supervision by the Minister for National Defence. Yeah, but they're finding it right now, I hope, their finale in this government proposal. Minister Zdrojewski also asked a question during the committee's deliberations: will the military police's personal condition increase because of this? The personal state of the Military Gendarmerie as a specialized ordering service of the Polish Armed Forces in this area will not change and will be sufficient to carry out tasks. During the discussion, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński also asked the question: in the context of these changes will it be necessary to amend the rules on the protection and state of planning of units? From the opinion of both Minister and Counselor Mandylis of the Legislative Bureau, there was no need for this. Besides, the legal opinion was very clear. The law without amendments in this respect is very much expected, as also evidenced by the opinions attached to the Act, submitted by the association of security workers, as well as the association of security workers, which share the opinion of the Minister for National Defence on the subject of the amendments made. The bill received a positive opinion from the National Defence Committee, with 7 senators in favour, no one opposed, and two senators abstained. It was, Mr. Marshal, in a concise way, to convey what was at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u256	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. It is, isn't it? Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u257	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you are an experienced President, and I would like to ask you 3 questions about this law. First: whether the proposed record that a soldier of the Military Gendarmerie has the right to enter the premises of the entrepreneur As you probably know, I've been this entrepreneur my whole life. Doesn't it go beyond the powers of supervision and tasks carried out by the SUFO or the scope of protection of areas under the Ministry of National Defence? Second question: why has the draft law not been submitted to Parliament for further procession since the start of the draft law by the government in 2016? Can we read the data on irregularities referred to in the 2016 explanatory memorandum? What was the number and type of irregularities detected during the review of the years 2015 to 2019, and is the scale of these irregularities in the facilities under the Ministry of National Defence larger than those under the supervision of the Chief of Police or the Chief Border Guard? And the third, my last question: what do you think is the difference between the proposed regulation on supervision and the way in which it is implemented and the regulations in force so far? What do you think are the differences in supervision and enforcement between the existing article. 43, on the basis of which the Chief of Police and the Chief of Border Guard operate, and the designer? So I ask: what are the differences, and why are they, if this is the case, to be honest, of the same issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u258	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as such a formula is concerned, which is, of course, used in the reports, there were no such detailed questions during the deliberations. However, I think that the fundamental difference between the law currently in force and the amendment being introduced is that it will have a statutory level in terms of regulation on how to control and supervise SUFOs. As far as this right of entry is concerned, it refers only to control tasks in the context of contracts relating to the protection of premises supervised by the Minister for National Defence. The senator also asked in the next question what was going on between 2015 and 2016. I want to tell you. Mr Zdrojewski was just talking about it. That work or actually the idea of working on this law began much earlier, because at the beginning of 2000. Well, it happened that she's now finding her finale. And in both the opinions cited by the union and the association of security workers... Such a main objective, which is shared by the Minister for National Defence, is to improve the quality of the work of these specialised armed security units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u260	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Skurkiewicz like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr Rusiecki has presented the matter comprehensively.]] But maybe there will be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! An amendment to the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities is undoubtedly necessary. The lack of proper supervision of the activities of specialized armed defence formations already in 2017 was identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was then led by the current Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. And even then, because it lasted since 2016, this law was being processed. Why did this trial last five years? I don't know. In any case, the fact that the Sejm's legislators found 36 errors in the project after 5 years indicates that a lot of attention can be paid to the quality of this process. Therefore, when, on the question of why the law does not also cover protective formations of the police and border guards, in response I hear from the representative of the Minister of National Defence what I have heard from the Chairman of the Committee on National Defence, i.e. that this interest was not expressed, I do not know whether such a need is really there, or whether simply this process was conducted in an inappropriate manner. Because this question is repeated over and over again, and it is imposed on itself. But as a result, we have a legal solution that only concerns the services of the Ministry of National Defence. And that definitely indicates the weakness of this solution. For the law should aim at universality, to cover all issues, regardless of who they concern. The aim should be to seek comprehensive solutions, unification of supervision, and not just to introduce one form of specific solution. And to be honest, I did not find an explanation, nor did I come across an explanation for this infirmity. In my opinion, it is logical that armed protective formations subordinate to the Police or Border Guard operate on the basis of regulations, and in the units subordinate to the MON will operate under the law. Another question is whether the Military Gendarmerie, which currently has about 3.5 thousand soldiers, is able to manage the SUFO. Let's hope it doesn't turn out that the bill will be passed, the Military Gendarmerie will receive new, not insignificant powers, and the supervision of the SUFO will be just like today, i.e. illusory. Because it's not like MON didn't have any tools to control the protective formations. The fact that so many irregularities have been detected in their operation is largely the result of negligence. Not everything can be explained by the lack of coherent law. Just as not all the powers that the Chief Commandant of the Military Gendarmerie will gain under this Act will be justified by the concern about the quality of the protection carried out by the SUFO. The right to enter the premises of the operator under scrutiny or to request access to protective documentation may, as has already been mentioned here today, lead to abuse. There should be a clear explanation of the circumstances which authorize such action and this is not in the Act. The attention to this bill is much more. They are all the more annoying, because, as I said, the bill has been working for 5 years and additionally the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber has been served, which many irregularities in SUFO activities have shown. The weight of these reservations, for example, is so great that it raises concerns about whether such an imperfect law should be adopted. On the other hand, however, we cannot afford for the country that buys the world's most modern combat aircraft, military warehouses to guard drunken security guards or to work for 3 shifts or, worse than that, to allow for the protection of these facilities, formations whose employees do not have adequate equipment or training. In fact, we do not know the extent of these irregularities, but the fact that specialized protective formations guard about 70% Constables, ordering the problem to be taken very seriously. For these reasons, it is to be welcomed that, however, some clarification and ordering of the rules in this area will take place. That is why I will not vote against this law, although I cannot support it with a clear conscience. I will therefore abstain. In conclusion, one more point. Well, following the debate on this bill, I was terrified to hear the Minister, who, as PiS is in the habit, blamed for the fact that military objects are being protected by SUFOs, burdened with previous governments, suggesting that it would be best to return to the time when the recruiter was a bodyguard. I ignore that the analysis of this statement shows that this is a problem that cannot be solved, that the bodyguard will always be a weak guardian of MON's assets. But, Minister, I was in the army. I did about 100 bucks. And one thing I'm sure of is that I didn't have any combat value on these things. That was 40 years ago. Today it is all the more necessary for a soldier to be intensively trained for war, instead of wasting his time making him a bodyguard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u262	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mariusz Gromko, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the hall: Minister wants to address...]] Minister, you're a senator. I have to tell you, there's no mode in which right now... [[Speaking from the Chamber: After the discussion, he has the right to speak as a representative of the Government.]] [[He has the right, according to the regulations, Mr. Marshal.]] Okay, but I didn't see you there. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I waved... well, discreetly showed my hand. It'll be brief, Mr. Marshal.]] You had to be less discreet... [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said, President Rusiecki has discussed the matter of the law in a comprehensive manner. However, Senator Wcisla's speeches cannot be left without any comment, since I represent the Ministry of National Defence, because many of the issues raised here by Senator Wcisła, have nothing to do with reality, although the problem has been known for many years. I too, Mr. Senator, served in the army, and I also have a few dozen worth. And I served in the army a long time ago, over 30 years ago. And I also know how it was done. And I know how it's done today. Don't confuse two areas. Don't confuse the security or security case, as you said, and the guard service. These are two different things. I would just like to point out to you that I didn't say at a sitting or a parliament or a senate committee that it was the fault of the predecessors. I merely pointed out that of course there were other conditions still a few or several years ago, when soldiers of active service were able to conduct and carry out guarding services also in the form of activities. That's how it's been done, and that's what's happening today. But I would also like to draw attention to one key issue, because after all... And here you're right, sir, I've actually been referring to my predecessors, because no one else is just those predecessors. I mean General Gocula, who was the head of the General Staff, I mean your Deputy Prime Minister Semoniak, I mean General Nidecki, who was the head of the Military Gendarmerie, pointed to the need to regulate these matters, because it was so that the SUFO system was not adequate. Today we are talking about plans to secure individual military units, which plans are classified documents. The current and ad hoc control of the guarding or guarding staff of the Military Gendarmerie leads and can check the sobriety of these staff at any time. But we don't have the ability to verify if it's, for example. It is not that these security guards, employed in one company, do not end their 12-hour shift and are not moved to another place, e.g. to some supermarket where they have another 12-hour shift. Unfortunately, we are dealing with such pathologies today and we want to put an end to this, which is why we want to equip the Chief Military Police Chief with the appropriate instruments. He, on behalf of the Minister of National Defence, will be able to perform in this narrow scope concerning SUFO, not the entire functioning of the entrepreneur, because it would be, as you mentioned, alogical... He will control this entrepreneur in this narrow range. That's it. That's it. That's it. We want it to be done this way. And one more thing. I absolutely disagree with your opinion that the 36 amendments that were tabled in the Sejm were something that clearly indicated that this legal matter was worthless. I would like to point out that these were mainly 99% editorial and legislative proposals. That's it. We didn't agree to this... Besides, most of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence sent this bill to the subcommittee. In the subcommittee, the work was very substantive and from all sides. Your political formation was represented by former Senator Andrzej Szewiński. This cooperation was really very good and very substantive. If you had any doubts... We as the Ministry of National Defence were absolutely and are open to clarification or improvement of this act. This is a legal act that went to the Marshal's staff on November 17th or 18th, and today is mid-February. So that there's no rush, it's not like we want it now, right now, right now... We want to carry out this legislative procedure as the legislative guidelines dictate. That is why we have proposed a 30-day period of vacathio legis to this law. We have been and are open to far-reaching cooperation. As you have rightly pointed out, the Ministry of National Defence also considers this to be particularly sensitive matter, because those entrepreneurs who employ security guards in the framework of specialized armed protective formations... These people are protecting strategic objects on the map of the country. Of course, this is one of the elements of the protection of such objects. Civil forces also do this, soldiers who are in military service also protect objects. It's not unusual, it's the reality today, and that's how we work. I encourage far-reaching cooperation, because it will certainly benefit most of all for the security of the Republic, and we should all care as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u264	Thank you, Minister. In this way, we have concluded item six of the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and is included in print No 271 and the committee report In print No 271 S. I would therefore ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I will present to you the report of the Joint Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee, which met on 28 January and discussed the draft law we are discussing. The draft law is contained in print No 271 and the report is published in print No 271 S. Four amendments were tabled during the committee's deliberations. One of these amendments seeks to correct the staff capital plans within the time limits and is the result of a shift of proceedings on this draft law for the period after 1 January, and this self-correction was therefore necessary. This self-correction was accepted by the committee in the vote: 25 votes in favour, 4 against, 11 senators abstained. The second amendment concerns this provision, which refers to sickness benefits. In the meantime, the rules have changed and the isolation institution has been introduced into the law. This amendment was adopted: 22 votes in favour, 0 against, 19 senators abstained. The third amendment also refers to the rules on PPKs. In this case, those entities which have been exempted from the provisions within the time limit are excluded. They've done their duty. And the last, fourth amendment is a legislative, formal addition to the provision confirming that this law is in its scope compatible with European Union rules on State aid. The whole draft law was adopted by 24 votes to 16 against and 2 senators abstained and thus received an overwhelming majority of the members of the committee. So much for the committee's work report. Let me just remind you in a nutshell, because those interested in knowledge, those who took part in the first reading in committees, which is the bill. Let me remind you that it refers to employee capital plans. In this respect, it is proposed to postpone the deadlines for both entrepreneurs and all obliged entities, including those representing the public finance sector, by one year in relation to the pandemic. Thus, this applies to some of the entities that carried it out in the second stage, the third stage, and all those in the fourth stage. The projecter was particularly concerned with the support of micro-entrepreneurs and small companies employing up to 20 employees. These provisions also include a proposal for abolition, i.e. not punishing those companies who have failed to fulfil these obligations within the deadlines set so far. Another proposal is a proposal that concerns companies that do not employ employees. The aim is to include these companies in the state aid scheme provided during the pandemic. I'm afraid so. The designers do not know what the reason is, and Polish entrepreneurs look at it with astonishment That, in principle, the entire system of aid created by you to entrepreneurs, no matter how we judge it at this point, ignores it to its essential extent... It goes on for example. about the State Development Fund. It ignores companies that employ a lot of employees very often, but they operate in specific industries. Well, enough to mention remote trade or insurance. Surely, a number of these companies are tourist companies, where people are employed not on the basis of employment relationships, only as part of self-employment or under agency agreement, contract-ordering, contract for work. These companies, e.g. Tourist offices, otherwise, could not function at all. It's the same with insurance companies doing their business through agencies and agents. These are companies that often have dozens and even hundreds of employees, but with different legal status. For this reason, they were only formally excluded from the possibility of obtaining aid from the State Development Fund, as well as from many other support instruments. It can't stay anyway, because it's hurting these companies. A bunch of them. I've already mentioned here, for example, tourist companies, belong to those industries, which completely, totally lie. Well, you can say so colloquially when it comes to the effects of the economic crisis. And these companies can't get help. Another proposal from this project is to cover the sickness benefit of those workers who, due to illness, isolation, isolation or quarantine associated with the pandemic, cannot carry out their work within the framework of the employment relationship. On the one hand, the aim is to ensure that these workers do not have a mental barrier, and especially a financial barrier, and that they have it, provide information practically from all over Poland. So that they do not hide their health or the fact that they are infected so that they do not try to heal themselves in fear that if they report to their employer or to a doctor with symptoms associated with COVID-19, they will be sent either for treatment or for quarantine or isolation. It all ends with a financial loss for such an employee. That's why there's a proposal here that, in this particular situation, in a pandemic period, workers can receive... and actually they can't receive, just get 100%. sickness benefit instead of 70% . The point is, there's no barrier here. As I said, she is not only psychological, but above all financial, which prompts you to hide your health. On the other hand, at a time when a pandemic is going on, employers have huge financial problems and should not bear any costs. So we propose that from day one Not since the third thirty, as it is now in the law The sickness benefit was paid by the Social Insurance Institution, not by the employer. Another proposal in this project concerns an instrument that would support the maintenance of the financial liquidity of companies during a pandemic, not outside it, not when the pandemic is over. Let's hope it happens as soon as possible. This is to reduce the VAT refund period from 60 to 14 days. This is a virtually non-stop repeated postulate of organizations representing entrepreneurs and employers, repeated from the beginning, from the outbreak of a pandemic to now. What is most difficult for companies that are faced with problems related to the effects of the pandemic is maintaining liquidity, fulfilling private and public obligations without borrowing, without borrowing, etc. Companies very often, waiting for their own money, those that belong to them, but are on the accounts of the tax office, because there are 60 days for their return, have to save themselves with a turnover loan to maintain liquidity. Therefore, there is a proposal to shorten this deadline from 60 to 14 days. The last proposal contained in this law is a proposal to include members of single-member companies with limited liability and open-ended companies, i.e. partnerships, limited partnership companies, among those benefiting from the aid. Until now, the law has not treated these partners in this way, and these entities, these companies and their partners could not benefit from the aid, e.g. granted in a parking form. After the entry into force of these provisions, a member of a single-member limited liability company or partner company will be treated as an employee. If there are specific reasons and the criteria for applying for a parking grant can be applied, then such a company will be able to benefit from it. There is no such law today. So much for information on the proceedings of the joint committees and a reminder of the ideas and objectives of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u267	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, which is already a senate initiative enabling our citizens to overcome the problems they face in relation to the pandemic, in connection with the closure of the economy, the announcement and cancellation of the lockdowns? Which is the Senate bill which was passed and sent to the Sejm? What's going on with these laws in the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u268	Senator, this is of course one of the many laws that are designed to support Polish entrepreneurs and which are by the Senate. In my view, but I hope that not only in my opinion, it meets the government's expectations that various entities, different environments, institutions such as the Senate, as well as opposition clubs, cooperate with the government. This is proof that such constructive cooperation is being implemented. This law must be read in such a way that it is an important and necessary addition to government laws called shields. The proof of this is that, in addition to the Act on Employee Capital Plans, this project is changing one of the laws that we call anti-covid shields, introducing solutions that the entrepreneurs expected and did not have in these shields. In answer to your question, I will say that this is another one of those laws that the Civic Coalition has filed. We have reported three so far two have already been passed. Unfortunately, they don't apply because they're in the Seym, even though it's been months, and the lower chamber hasn't found time to take care of them. I am, of course, already overlooking the hundreds of solutions tabled in the form of amendments, not the separate laws that we have tabled. So that undoubtedly in my opinion the High Chamber and this law, both this project and the previous ones, meets the expectations of entrepreneurs on the one hand, on the other hand the government, to actively participate in the legislative process for Polish entrepreneurs and their employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u269	No further questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Welcome to Minister Grzegorz Piechowiak and Minister Stanisław Swede. Which one of you... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister Grzegorz Piechowiak and I represent the government. I will also try to answer these questions. I would just like to inform the High House that we have sent an appropriate letter to the President of the Legislative Commission, also responding to the requests for this project. This project was being modified. As we know, at first it only concerned employee capital plans, then there were issues related to sickness benefits, but also other changes related to COVID. And, of course, if the High Senate takes this initiative, we will officially take a position on this draft Senate Act as a government party later. As far as the project is concerned, as far as sickness benefits are concerned, I would just like to point out that this is a solution that we cannot accept as a ministry in this form, above all because of the costs that this change generates. You state in your own justification that the monthly cost of such a solution is about 275 million PLN. So if we stretched it out in one year, it would be over PLN 3 billion. We have at this time a fight against the coronavirus, a 3-fold increase in the case of sickness benefits, that is a huge increase in benefits, and of course the sickness fund is not able to finance at the moment, it must be subsidised from the state budget. He's being subsidised. In this case, this grant would have to be at a much higher level. That's why I'm not going to apply here to particular records, but generally. As far as the issue of parking benefits is concerned, I would like to remind you, of course, that the subsequent changes that the government has implemented, the latter, relating to particular sectors: another possibility to use the parking space, the possibility to spread the payment into the insurance premium, as well as the deferral of the payment... All these industry-specific proposals are already in place. So that we cannot support this change in this regard either. As far as the employee capital plans are concerned, they are functioning and here the Minister of Finance, who is leading in terms of employee capital plans, as well as the Polish Development Fund, does not agree to these deadlines being shifted. We believe that the third voluntary pillar of savings in the pension system is important. And we need to do everything we can to promote this programme of employee capital plans to the maximum, to irritate it to be an alternative to the current system of funding from the Social Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u271	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to refer only in a few sentences to this bill, but also, more importantly, to the background. The project was presented and earlier, and today by me, so there is no need to duplicate this or deepen the subject. But the most important thing is the background. Namely, Poland has been facing the great problem of the epidemic of Coronavirus in a very short period of days, and this problem affects all people regardless of the environment, sector, industry, profession. However, this is particularly important in addition, of course, to the health and social health of the economy and entrepreneurs, because, on the one hand, they are employers, who are the source of the revenue of the state budget, and so what the government then, on its behalf, de facto, but for the benefit of citizens, by redistribution, gives back to citizens and, on the other hand, they are also employees of these entrepreneurs. And even though it's been almost a year since this epidemic, although the government is taking various legislative and factual initiatives to support these 2 communities, employers and employees, which I am talking about, the absolute criticism of government action is heard almost every day. This is particularly true for those sectors that have suffered the most as a result of the epidemic. And to be honest, it is difficult to understand, not only those entrepreneurs and their employees, but also us politicians, why governments have a full mouthful of declarations and promises to these entrepreneurs, and they do not actually implement them. Why do the rulers have a full voice of expectations and demands addressed to the opposition, and we have heard this from the Prime Minister's mouth many times about constructive cooperation and at the same time actually deny it? Evidence? I mentioned the evidence in part, answering the questions as rapporteur, and now I am acting on my own behalf, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, Senator Jazłowiecka. The proof is that six months ago we passed a law, the Senate passed a law to suspend the trade ban on Sundays, which hinders the development of this sector responsible for a percentage of the revenue of the state budget, e.g. with VAT, but not only with VAT, because also with PIT, and with CIT, because each product and every service is taxed with VAT. The influences are much lower than in previous years, and there are no facilitations for these companies. Two months ago, exactly on December 4th, we passed a law that introduced something that, in my opinion, is absolutely fundamental, namely compensation for companies closed by the authorities. We have this state in Poland, that we have an authentic, one can say, an unprecedented natural disaster, because, according to the Constitution, and the laws of the epidemic, and here we are dealing with a pandemic, with a global state, is the basis for declaring a state of emergency, a natural disaster. And the government, the Council of Ministers, does not announce this natural disaster, does not introduce, at the same time not using measurable support instruments for companies, for example. restricts or prohibits economic activity. This is something absolutely unacceptable, improbable in a legal state, to ban business activities, to impose restrictions on business activities so de facto unlawfully, because in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the law established, and at the same time not to see, not to see the problems which are created by these activities on the part of employers and their employees, and without providing for any compensation, no compensation at all. In my opinion, this authority could be regarded as fair if it somehow argued that it did not introduce a natural disaster, I do not understand it, I don't think anyone understands it in our country, but on the other hand it introduced solutions which the state of natural disaster requires, i.e. compensation, compensation for entrepreneurs. There isn't one and there isn't another. The law I am talking about was passed on 4 December last year, and it introduces compensation for companies whose business is limited or prohibited from doing business. The High Senate has approved her, and she's been in the Seym for two months, and she's not being watched. No one in this Chamber needs to be reminded of who has the majority in the Seym, so who has decided to make these compensations, God forbid, in the Seym, because they either need to be praised and acknowledged by the opposition... But above all, this is not about the rations of the Civic Coalition, nor about the opposition, but about the rations of entrepreneurs, because here entrepreneurs, who are limited to business activity, are right, entrepreneurs who are banned from business activity, are right. Well, or this law to reject, which would also show the attitude of the Law and Justice and the United Right to these legitimate demands and to that effect the entrepreneurs. This law also provides for a very important instrument, namely the right of micro-enterprises to suspend business activities, i.e. companies that employ less than 9 people. These companies cannot suspend their business activities, such as, for example, a single-person company, and this is often the only condition or the only chance to save yourself from a disaster, so stop doing business for a while, wait until the market gets better, and get back to business. It saves the company and saves jobs in this company. But you can't. We proposed that they should be able to suspend business activities, not for long, up to 6 months, so that the situation would be clarified. Unfortunately, this bill is not being considered. This law, which I mention, which is passed and which is in the Sejm and is not considered, also provides for various instruments for the benefit of citizens at this bad, difficult time, such as. a pro-Citizen's interpretation of the law. The point is that, at a certain time, in this case within 30 days, the office should issue a decision to the citizen, and if it does not, so that the silent consent of the office, the institution known to the Polish law, means: you have not taken a position, that is, you have agreed to the position of the citizen. That's why we call it a pro-Citizen interpretation. It is not considered either. And to be honest, there are many other examples here. For example, as a democratic opposition, the Civic Coalition, including the Democratic Left Alliance, the Polish People's Party, and the non-associated senators together here in the Senate, we have reported to laws called shields, several hundred, really several hundred amendments, additions, proposals, so that the government will help entrepreneurs, workers and citizens more easily, better, faster and more effectively. We've reported almost 400 amendments to the 6.0 shield itself. They were all rejected in the Seym. Unfortunately, often in a cynical way, because it doesn't even work... Most of the parliament doesn't even pretend to wonder if the proposal is right or wrong, because it also has the opportunity to make a mistake. Well, if 300 amendments are made and directed to one vote, it is clear that no one wonders whether these 300 amendments are perfect, very good, good, sufficient, inadequate. No, they're all treated in terms of unsubstantiated value, only by them. Our amendments are good amendments, the opposition amendments are bad amendments and they must be rejected. I don't suppose anyone reads them. Therefore, I hope that I have expressed it several times, especially during the holiday period, the same has passed, but the next one is ahead of us. That there will be such a moment, perhaps in the case of the law that we are discussing today, and there will be sobering. Finally, after a year of fighting the pandemic, the authorities will consider that the most important thing is the state and society, not governance. Because governments once belong to one politician or political party, another time to another, everything passes away, but the state continues, society continues, nation continues. The state has no party card, society has no party card, nation has no party card, entrepreneurs have no party card... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, now...]] ...the entire staff doesn't have party ID either. There are no our companies and your companies, our employees and your employees, our industries and your industries. It's all in common. That is why I call for this law to be such a first... a swallow that makes spring cooperation between the opposition and the coalition for the good of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u274	Senator Adam Szejnfeld said that the amendments to the shields were also reported by non-member senators. I will only correct one thing: they were reported by the Senators of the Association, only by the Association of Independent Senators. That's what I've tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u275	Thank you very much for the correction, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we can discuss solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. GDP decline or deficit increase not only are the most visible consequences of the ill-prepared law by the government. The decline in GDP is only the tip of the iceberg of economic problems that we have been facing for almost a year in the chaos that the government has funded. The amendment of the law is therefore necessary. The novel proposes 5 proposals to improve the country's economic and financial situation in the face of the observed negative effects of anti-pandemic sharpenings. The first concerns employee capital plans. Many companies face the cost of not only financial but also organisational and administrative costs in their introduction at this difficult time. This applies e.g. changes in information systems, accounting, contract handling or declarations. Therefore, it seems so important to adapt the deadline for implementing this project. The proposal is to postpone the introduction of employee capital plans by one year. The second package refers to greater protection from the financial shield of self-employed persons, single-member companies and non-employed workers in the context of the employment relationship, members of single-member limited liability companies, partner companies and public companies, e.g. limited partnership. These companies and their partners are practically excluded from state aid during the pandemic. It is 1 million 200 thousand people who have been thrown out on the margin of assistance, as Senator Adam Szejnfeld justifies his proposal. The third point is the need to reduce the VAT refund period from 60 days to 14. This would help companies maintain liquidity in times of crisis. Another issue concerns the payment of full-paid sickness allowance to persons who are ill, either in quarantine or in isolation due to COVID, as well as the delay during the obligation to pay sickness benefits by the employer while transferring, from the employer to the Social Security Office, the obligation to cover the allowance from the first day and to increase to 100% the amount of this allowance to workers who are treated, quarantined or isolated because of COVID. Current data indicate that more and more people are dying of COVID due to a late appointment with doctors. The proposed solution is intended to motivate workers to submit to health risks without prejudice to their wages and household budgets and without increasing the cost of employers' activities in these situations. The bill contains a number of detailed solutions. An estimate of the cost of implementing these provisions has also been drawn up. It amounts to more than PLN 3 billion per year and at the same time saves the situation of millions of citizens. I don't think it's too high a cost. Since we can still hear from the Prime Minister's mouth how well our country is in shape, it is worth to spend so much so that after the pandemic Poland will enter the path of growth faster. It is also worth noting that during the work, the committee took into account the numerous votes put forward during the consultation, which confirms that our citizens are looking forward to these changes. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I don't think there's a person in this room who hasn't met with a person who's been affected by the pandemic and has been associated with its sharpening. Let me stress once again that the project is based on meetings with victims and responds to people's demands. Of course, we can discuss whether there was anything else to add to this project. or take something from him. I'm sure you do. But both the Polish economy and the citizens do not have time for this. We cannot record GDP decline with our hands over the next few years. The Senate will certainly not remain passive and will continue to prepare fair and fair solutions for the affected citizens, despite the indifference of the Marshals of the Sejm, who has kept several senate legislative initiatives in the freezer since June last year, regardless of the solutions they contain, which citizens are looking forward to. I therefore encourage everyone to vote in favour of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u277	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law of Entrepreneurs. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 200 and the committee's report In print No 200 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft law. I inform you that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski is also a representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I feel that I am going to present to you one of the most important and important projects for all of us, in a special way important for 1 million 300 thousand Poles and Poles, who are lucky or this misfortune, as you will see in a moment, to be at the so-called. self-employment, self-employed as a micro-enterprises. I'd like to be here. I looked around the room and saw that Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski was with us to thank him for inspiring me to draw attention to the problem of unequal treatment of citizens in the context of labour market powers. Ladies and gentlemen, presenting the report of the joint committees I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has already sent 15 September to the National Economy and Innovation Commission this draft law on the amendment of the Law of the Senate. The committees at joint meetings on 15 December and later on 28 January considered and amended the draft at first reading. The committees ask the Senate to adopt a single draft with earlier amendments. What, ladies and gentlemen, does the project concern? In fact, it's fundamental. Art. 66 of the Constitution states that an employee has the right to work-free days and annual paid leave specified in the Act. Other things are also defined, such as: maximum working time standards. The way in which these days are defined is laid down by the law. That's what we can read in the Constitution. What does that mean in practice? Art. 66 The Constitution regulates one of the fundamental rights of workers, which is the right to rest. This right includes a guarantee of statutory holidays and annual paid holidays. The right to rest in accordance with this provision of the Constitution shall be conferred on the staff member. The term is based on Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution is autonomous and includes not only a person who is in a job relationship but also any other person doing work for profit. The statutory guarantees of the right to rest should also cover persons providing work on a different basis than the contract of employment, which de lege summers in the legal system in force in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, we must admit something that puts us, the legislators, in a bad light. To this day we have allowed, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, the situation of unequal treatment of citizens depending on whether they are employed by the employer or, as the vast majority, they are so called. self-employment. We are not talking about huge entrepreneurs, we are often talking about people who were forced to switch to self-employment, because their main employer thought it was so convenient that it is a way of building for him less costs, that it is a formula more comfortable For him and not for the employee From the point of view of his performance of his duties. Art. 66 of the Constitution imposes responsibilities above all... And that's what we need to remember, because the basic law is an obligation imposed on the state. The main of these or one of the basic duties is to determine by law the content and manner in which the rights set out in this provision are implemented, including the rights and obligations arising from the right to leave, the right to rest. Ladies and gentlemen, leave is a social benefit due to the fact that you remain in employment. The Constitutional Tribunal, which has expressed its views on this matter, and the caselaw of the courts which have affected this case in many respects, states very clearly: the right to annual leave, i.e. within a year, it's an unconditional law. And this is the right assigned to the employee, regardless of how he is employed. Art. 66 of the Constitution refers to a law which sets out the content of the rights set out in that provision and how they are implemented. So it was the legislator's duty to clarify this. In material terms, this provision requires that statutory provisions be made in such a way that this right, the right to rest, can be exercised. It is therefore possible to speak of a certain charge of unconstitutionality in the context of the regulations in force at this time, which de facto deprive such a large group of citizens of their right to rest. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about in practice? We must remember that in Poland the number of so-called. micro-entrepreneurs, people like that, that's $2 million, $80,000. Of this group, about 1 million, 300 000 people These are self-employed persons self-employment. These are not entrepreneurs employing other employees. These are people who generally perform certain duties on their own, as I said, often in companies in which there is another employee next to them, employed on the basis of a contract of employment. And imagine the situation: the one who is employed for a contract of employment has the right to paid leave, and the one who is on so-called leave. Self-employment, that right is deprived. This bill is a clear injustice for 1 million 300 thousand Poles and Poles we correct. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 66 of the constitution, which grants workers the right to rest, must now be implemented by us in the form of legal clarification. What are we designing? The right to rest should be granted not only to employees but also to self-employed workers who do not employ any employee under an employment contract. Employers who employ other employees would be excluded from the scope of the proposed solution. The essence of the changes that we propose, the essence of the amendment of the Law of Businessmen, is the granting of the so-called Law. self-employed relief in the payment of social security contributions in one month of the calendar year in respect of the exercise of the right to rest. In the current legal situation, as I said, there are no tools to implement the right of self-employed to rest. Vacation as such is an institution of labour law, but the status of the so-called. the self-employed is not regulated by these rules. In view of this, the only rational solution that can help to realise the right to rest of this group of people is to create a tool that would reduce the cost of so-called. self-employment at a time when such a person is not engaged in activities due to the fact that he is resting. The proposed amendment will remove the gap, as the lawyers say, from the legal system, in the axiological gap in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we propose? We propose that in the new article that we attach to this regulation, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18a, grant to self-employed persons who carry out business on a continuous basis for a period exceeding 6 months the possibility to benefit in a given calendar year in one month of their choice from a 50% reduction in compulsory social security contributions for the exercise of their right to rest. The reduction of the contribution will not affect the basis for the assessment of the contributions. So-called. The self-employed who will benefit from the relief will not suffer the consequences in the future, his pension will not be lower. The contribution to compulsory social security to the full amount will be financed by the state budget through the Social Insurance Institution. The premium shall be reduced by half in one month. To put it graphically, we provide a 2-week rest with a paid insurance premium. In view of the state of public finances, we propose that the proposed solution be applied only to low-income people. The beneficiaries of the relief would only be persons whose income from non-agricultural economic activity from the 6 months preceding the month of notification to the Social Security Office was no more than PLN 60 thousand. Please note that as authors, we are limiting ourselves to the designers of this project. We say this is not for all. This will not be for those who are on contracts with a very high wage, where we are not dealing with an employee, but from the formal point of view, we can say that a self-employed person who, under certain contracts, earns significant funds, exceeding the limit of PLN 60 thousand, which we propose. We offer this relief to the low and medium earners. At the same time, entrepreneurs who fulfil the conditions laid down in the article on social insurance shall be excluded from the catalogue of beneficiaries. It's about people who walk away. agricultural contributions. An appropriate notification of these persons will be a condition for exercising the right. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposed amendment is the abolition of gross injustice towards people who are at the so-called. self-employment. Plus, considering that... it's not even about the fact that it's gonna be a big financial expense at a given point, because these expenses are actually only gonna show up when these people retire. We're not talking about payment of benefits, we're talking about de facto accounting operations on the Social Insurance Institution's accounts. Even if we assume that they're gonna take advantage of this opportunity, all entitled... I will inform you immediately that this will not be the case. Unfortunately, people who are on the so-called. Self-employment, often running microbusinesses, cannot afford to close their business for two weeks, e.g. a small service facility. The calculation, which refers to the maximum payment of these contributions of PLN 320 million, is, of course, only hypothetical calculation, which would include the payment of contributions for all eligible persons, and we know that this is not possible. Plus, from this group... There's no estimate today, not even the U.S.S. didn't give it to us. This group, as I said, is limited by the introduction of an income limit. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I recommend... I would like to convince you that the adoption of these regulations will be a change in the situation in which the Polish state is depreciating, and treats all those who are at the so-called. Self-employment shows that they are second-class employees. It is our duty as a legislative authority to fill in the legislative wording of the Article. 66 constitutions that talk about the right to rest. It does not say that the right to rest is guaranteed only for those who work under an employment contract. Poland should be guided by the provisions of the Constitution. This bill is a project that gives justice to hundreds of thousands of Poles working on the so-called. self-employment. I'm asking you to welcome him.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I ask you to ask Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In view of the fact that the draft law amending the Law on Trader Law provides that entrepreneurs who are natural persons, but who are not employees, will be able to benefit from a reduction in the payment of social security contributions in respect of the exercise of the right to rest, I would like to ask whether, during the period of exercise of the right to rest, these entrepreneurs will be able to provide services and sell goods in respect of their activities, including the issue of billing documents, without the consequences of losing the right to the relief in question. Will the exercise of the right to relief be linked to the need to actually cease doing business during this period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u281	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to this question is in the opinion we have ordered. Yes, it points out that the regulation that introduces the right to leave is, of course, in the interests of the worker It's up to him to use his leave. However, it also entails the right of the insurer to verify whether the person exercising that right is actually exercising it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u283	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u284	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Senator, I strongly support this initiative, but I would like to ask about future prospects. Doesn't the senator think that if it exists in the Polish system of law, it should be extended in the future? Namely, I mean situations similar to those described by the senator, justifying this bill. I refer to employees of a different status, of course, the word "workers" is used in quotes rather than in the case of self-employed, i.e. single-person entrepreneurs, namely employees who do their work, e.g. on the basis of a contract-order. Today they are treated differently in the system of law, but e.g. In terms of premium obligations... Well, according to the government's announcements, it is expected that all contracts-orders will be covered, so these people will work on almost the same basis. the employee providing it on the basis of the employment relationship. However, in the future, if this had entered into force, all the contributions would have been paid from the contract, as they were deducted from the employment contract. Well, holiday rights no longer apply to those who perform their tasks under the contract-order. Don't you think the senator... Well, I would have understood if you hadn't answered that question. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 1 minute. Go ahead and finish.]] Let's assume that the provisions on mandatory contractual and other contracts will enter into force. Shouldn't they be covered by the same rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u285	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u286	I would like to thank the President very warmly, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, for having rightly pointed out that, at the time when regulations introducing such rules for the payment of contributions will apply, for example. in the case of contract-orders, it is absolutely necessary to consider whether the scope and subjective scope of this law should not be extended to such persons. This does not, of course, include this regulation, but the adoption of changes in this area, as regards the insurance provisions of this group of employees, will certainly require us to analyse whether there should also be changes in the system, e.g. the right to paid leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u287	Thank you very much. I will raise the question of Senator Szejnfeld, because in the case of this bill I have also pointed out another problem, the problem of self-employed mothers who do not have the same powers in terms of illness and motherhood, especially birth and motherhood as women employed, and their husbands do not have the same opportunities to go on leave as the husbands of women who are employed for employment contracts. Did you, in any way, consider these rules, discriminatory in some sense, some of the groups of workers, lean on this problem and wonder whether this could be addressed in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the opinion requested by us by Professor Magdalena Paluszkiewicz. She sees the problems that your marshal pointed out and you pointed out to the senator. This opinion ends in the following sentence: "In the light of the modern standards set, among others. The European Pillar of Social Rights should support innovative forms of employment, i.e. those that guarantee a high quality of working conditions, and in this context self-employment should be encouraged, but self-employed people in comparable conditions should be entitled to adequate social protection. If the practice is that, regardless of any other form of employment, this person will still have to pay contributions on the same terms as the person who is an employee in the company, of course, I no longer go into the details under which the employer pays the contribution, then I have no doubt that in the 21st century in the democratic state of law which he prides and boasts, and rightly, that he is a country in which we have been dealing with economic growth continuously for almost 30 years, the effects of these good economic changes must also be seen in the labour laws, which will be increasingly open to these various forms of employment and other activities, which your Marshal has been talking about, also in terms of securing these people for the future. And I think it is very useful, justified and justified that we should consider in the future whether, after this legislative change, we should not consider preparing another one.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much, no further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Welcome to the House of Minister Mark Niebóżak, representative of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Niebżak: No, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I therefore open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I would like to thank you very much from this point of view for this initiative. I'll tell you why. Namely, in our country mostly bad It is already beyond legal issues that entrepreneurs are treated in this way. The attitude of decision-makers, but also of a large part of the public, to entrepreneurs, to employers, is bad. We know the genesis of this. It's more of a system that we wanted to go through in 1989, but somehow it's coming back a little bit. But also And this is the subject of our work. You can see it in the legislation, in the law, where it's completely... Entrepreneur's rights, including those relating to rights as if they were identical, to workers' rights, are very often ignored. One might even argue that, in some cases, we have some inequality in relation to the law depending on whether you are an entrepreneur, an employer or an employer. This also occurs in more complex situations, e.g. in family businesses, when the entrepreneur works in his family company together with family members. And he has certain obligations, but also rights, and already working with him family members often do not only enjoy those rights concerning the employer, but also those concerning the employer, i.e. the employee. Even though they work every day. In general, an entrepreneur is treated as a superhuman. I think entrepreneurs are superhumans. E.g. with regard to the Labour Code, it is known that the employee, the employee has a daily working time limit of 8 hours. The daily working time limit, weekly working time limit, specified hours, number of hours for rest, gap between work and work. I don't know a single entrepreneur who works 12 hours a day. They usually work 14, 15, 18 hours, work Saturday, Sunday, work every day from morning to night. Not eight hours. But they don't deserve leave, they don't deserve overtime. Not much, most of these entrepreneurs work for the rest of their lives, not for some retirement, but for the rest of their lives. Of course, they get very low pensions then, but that's another story. Perhaps, and that is why I would like to take this vote, the initiative you are presenting to the senator, is one of the few, perhaps the first one that will begin to cross a certain path so that they will not finally be considered superhumans, only as normal people who also need to have a rest. Or in other ways they need to compensate for their effort and effort, work not only for their business, but also for our state, building its prosperity, development. And you may be able to count on further initiatives I declare my cooperation. Which would increase this symmetry... There will never be full symmetry, because there is a difference between employer status and employee status. But at least it's about equalizing these opportunities and recognizing an entrepreneur as a human being, not a robot. The employee is a man, and the employer is a robot, can work for the rest of his life, from morning to night, without any special powers and yet with eternal problems, also created by the state, for example through numerous administrative, financial, tax barriers, checks etc., etc. So perhaps the purpose that I am talking about, the initiative presented by your senator, can be realized as the first step. That is why I congratulate and support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. I would add to the fact that it is very often that this entrepreneur is also an employee, only he is simply employed in a different way, because it is so suitable for employers, big corporations. Right? [[Thank you very much.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Janusz Gromek, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Danuta Jazłowiecka and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Environmental Protection Act. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 286, and the committee's report In print No 286 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u292	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law amending the Environmental Law, Senate Printing No 286. The draft law deals with changing the compositions of the supervisory boards of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, how these supervisory boards are selected and how the management boards of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management are selected. Currently, the supervisory boards of these institutions are composed of 5 members of four basically elected by the government, and one is indicated by the local government. I'll remind you, Art. 400. This is chapter 4 of the Act, which states that voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management, hereinafter referred to as funds, are local legal persons within the meaning of Article. Paragraph 9 (14) of the Act referred to in paragraph 9. 1. As a matter of fact, many years ago, I was the author of the bill. When special-purpose funds were liquidated in Poland, also municipal, district funds, and such funds existed... The provincial fund was a special-purpose fund and the national one too. We've created a new legal structure. On the basis of this new construction, municipal funds became part of the municipalities' budgets With funding for environmental protection. The same has happened in the case of district funds. A slightly different character and rank we gave to the regional environmental funds. As I recall, they had the status of a local legal person. From the beginning to the end, we wanted them to be under the supervision of local governments of voivodships. We were not afraid of decentralisation, we wanted to have a partner in the form of self-governments to carry out many environmental tasks, while maintaining oversight on the part of the government, government administration over the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which is such a record, the article is a state legal person. We consciously distinguished the local legal person and the state legal person so as not to allow the minister to take control of the regional environmental funds in the future. However, we did not think, at all, that it was possible to take control of supervisory boards through a simple procedure related to the amendment of the law. Moreover, if the Marshals, the voivodships did not want to carry out, carry out the process of change, then it was assigned, these intentions In a bad way, I would like to say it clearly, bad for the state and bad for the power of the state. The minister responsible for climate and environment today, because he exercises such supervision and has these powers. I would also like to make it clear: where the government simply does not cope, it is still cynically passing on tasks to local governments. And, for example, removes opportunities for local authorities to operate in an area related to environmental protection and gives them clear responsibility, even in the air protection part. Because who in Poland is responsible for air protection? Yesterday, Minister Kurtyka, Minister of Environment and Climate at the meeting of the combined committees of national economy and environment, said unambiguously: local governments. Not the government of self-government. So, in fact, the local authorities were taken away with the instruments of responsibility and funding in this area, but the responsibility was left behind. More, that's what we're talking about. The government does not want to be held responsible for matters affecting this area. Of course, I clearly state that the local government has certain powers in this matter; there is even an article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in the Environmental Protection Act, applied in the voivodship dimension, i.e. in the part concerning the local government of the voivodship are assigned tasks related to environmental protection. It is incomprehensible that local governments were deprived of supervision of these local government legal entities. This bill restores this supervision, restores the possibility for local governments of voivodships to influence the voivodship's environmental protection funds, more, causes this supervision to be socialized, because the supervisory board will be composed of representatives of two communities, i.e. environmental NGOs and employers' organisations will have one representative on this supervisory board. It is really worth engaging employers' environments in environmental measures because they have a huge impact on activities in this area. In order not to extend this part on the report submitted on behalf of the Joint Committees, I would also like to make it clear that all the organisations concerned ♪ maybe with one exception ♪ They expressed a positive position and supported this solution, i.e. representatives of non-governmental organisations, all without exception, representatives of employers' organisations, including all without exception, local co-operations, all without exception. They all expressed a clear positive opinion on this draft law. There is one negative opinion, and that is the opinion of the government. Somehow I'm not particularly surprised that the government is saying negative in this case. For some reasons that I do not understand, the Polish government does not like Polish local governments. So much for the joint committee. In order not to take part in the speeches again, I will say that various kinds of comments on the draft law have been received between the work of the committee and today's Senate meeting. And I'd like to make two amendments right away. One is specifically concerned with matters related to the change of name. So far, in the bill we use the concept of economic self-government, and the organisations representing the economic party ask us to use the term "association" to expand it. I absolutely agree with this and propose that this amendment be adopted. In the latter part, it already has a technical dimension. It concerns the manner and duration of setting up new supervisory boards and boards so that there is no unnecessary delay, especially on the part of the government. Mrs. Marshal, I'm handing these corrections over to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Janusz Bladder. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u294	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, in the opinion of the Minister for Climate and Environment Mr. Senator just mentioned that it was the only negative opinion We read about the draft of this law, among other things, that it will increase the costs of the management and supervisory boards of voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management. Does the senator see such a threat? And even if that were the case, is that a big problem? That's the first question. The second question, also concerning the same opinion of the Minister for Climate and Environment, in which one can read that, despite the reduced revenues of regional environmental and water funds from fees and environmental penalties since 2017, these voivodship environmental funds have increased the amount for which contracts are signed. Do you think this was the result of the legal changes that were made in 2017 in environmental law and which we want to change today?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u295	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u296	Thank you very much. To answer the first question, I'm going to say Art. 400f (10) of environmental law says: the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs will determine, by means of a regulation, the detailed conditions for the remuneration of members of the supervisory boards of voivodship environmental funds. Indeed, there is an increase from 5 to 7 members of these councils, but the minister can simply write that the amount he spends on 5 members today is divided into 7 members, and this will not result in any change. It's just a matter of regulation. If the Minister is so worried about it, he can solve the problem himself, and he can actually solve it with a simple move. I think that those who want to sit on the supervisory boards of voivodship funds do not sit on them for money, just because they really want to get involved in environmental matters. Thus, there is absolutely no reason to believe that this will result in an increase in costs. The minister shows it clearly, he can solve the problem, it's just a matter of his will. If I were to look at examples relating to the national fund, I would have to say that the costs associated with the operation of the national fund have increased significantly in recent years, even in the budget, in the financial plan for 2021 these costs are increasing by tens of millions of zlotys, they concern the functioning of the national fund itself. Thus, the Minister is selective in the area's opinion. This is the first case. And the other thing. I have indeed reviewed the Minister's opinion on this matter, and I see that it is selective, too. I'm sorry to say this. The Minister is very selective in providing this information. I assume that the minister present in the Chamber is unaware of how selective the information in this case is. Previously voivodship funds were in large part e.g. bodies implementing Union measures at the level of both regional operational programmes and the Operational Programme (Infrastructure and Environment). That's changed. This changed following the introduction of this provision on the collection of supervision of regional environmental funds to local governments. It was simply that the local governments took into their own decision the distribution of this money, which necessarily caused the administration to be unnecessary in the voivodship funds. A large number of workers who were involved in EU funds simply went to work in marshal offices. So the minister shows a reduction in administrative costs. Well, it's not really information, because these costs came to a different place. If the Minister had shown the table, not the number of contracts, but the amounts involved, it would have been a clear decrease. Minister, there's nothing to nod about. This information I'm referring to your material, which you signed. What you're showing clearly indicates is that you're talking about an increase in the number of contracts, not quotas. The absolute amounts in this case, taking into account the EU measure, which would be at the disposal of the Voivodship funds, would be, but they are not evidently evidence that the voivodship funds have less money at their disposal. And the work is double, because it takes place in marshal offices when assessing the same applications, and another application is submitted to the provincial fund, because there is no obstacle to financing the same tasks from the regional funds and EU funds. Here, there is no cross-financing prohibited in the case of EU funds, so it is possible to apply for these funds. Significantly more contracts are based only on the fact that a large number of smaller tasks are carried out, such as those contracted by the national fund, for example. The Clean Air Scheme. Well, it's been done before, only the quota scale was bigger when it comes to commissioning these tasks. Because some of the tasks carried out by the voivodship funds concerning waste management or water protection were also commissioned earlier, but the amounts were significantly higher. Today, 5,000 PLN per program is making my current a scale in terms of the number of contracts concluded, but it does not result in significantly larger amounts at the disposal of voivodship environmental funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u297	Thank you very much. No further questions. [[Voice from the room: They're here, they're here.]] [[Voice from the room: Where?]] Oh, and... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, the platform is so unlucky that you can't see the senator. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[We have to do something about this, Mrs. Marshal.]] Something's got to be done about it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the simple question is: why do you propose to increase the number of members of supervisory boards, and in particular management boards, if this law does not interfere at all with the powers of the funds? The tasks are the same, the money is the same. Then why have more people take care of it? What has changed? Explain. And then there's the second question about the transitional provisions. Well, we have an art. 2, which states that the mandates of the former members of the supervisory boards of the Funds expire on the date of entry into force of the regulation. And then what? First of all, what about the board of directors? I understand they're old because there's nothing about it. But then in the article. 3 is the question of giving new statutes to voivodship funds. It's gonna take a while. So we've got no kingdom at the beginning of this bill. As soon as the axe works. By law. What's going on? What scenario do you foresee if this law were to enter into force?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u299	I'm answering the first question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of the proposed amendment we are introducing new provisions on the number of members As the senator rightly pointed out: there will be seven And we're pointing out who's supposed to be on that board of directors. There are representatives of both voivodship local governments and government administration and representatives of NGOs and economic organizations mentioned by me. In fact, the idea is that different environments should be represented in the supervisory board of the Regional Environmental Fund, so that people are associated with the widely understood protection of the environment in Poland. That's just the reason. Of course, any reduction in the number of people potentially leads to some specific environment in this supervisory board not being represented. But I have a deep conviction that it is worth engaging different people and representatives of various organizations to support environmental activities in Poland. And that's why it's a seven-man squad. He's being discussed and really thought out. That's why it's a proposition. As I said, this is of little financial importance, because the minister responsible for climate affairs can solve this problem with one move. It is enough to reduce the amount of diets on these supervisory boards. And this regulation is issued by the Minister mentioned by me. That's one thing. So we socialise these councils, we invite different environments to work on the supervisory board, but we do not increase funding, because this funding problem can easily be solved by a single regulation. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]] And in the second part... The amendment that I just tabled, as if it solves the question of those doubts that you mentioned. And I hope that the committees will be able to deal with these amendments today. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u300	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u301	Well, I'm feeling a little unsatisfied, Mr. Senator, for a simple reason. You've explained yourself. Yeah, but not the other way around. On the matter of the board of directors, but not on the matter of the board. There are no social representatives, but the jam and cashier are even bigger, as I recall. It was meant to be, i.e. He was... There's, uh, sorry, there's... voivodship's board of funds counting from 1 to 2 members, and your proposal is two to five. This is, I admit, an increase between 200% 500%. And like I said, the board takes it. As it is said, there are more. So the previous question remains valid. And as I say, there's still as much work as there was. The money to split is also what it was. Then why would I say a dramatic, catastrophic increase in the number of board members? What's at his base? Except for the money heist, because that's what we all understand, it's human, and we forgive that kind of thing here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The question is... [[Oh, no, no...]] ...for a simple reason, the reason is simple. What happened that the board of directors had to increase so much that the number of board members had to increase by almost 500%?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u302	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u303	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that you presented PiS-owski's way of thinking about managing voivodship funds and national environmental funds. Jump on the money! Congratulations, Senator. In my head... [[Except we've lowered those numbers and reduced them, and you're raising them... and you're not jumping on that money. Well, that's what congratulations are, isn't it?]] [[Senator, don't disturb me, don't argue.]] If the marshal doesn't... I can handle it myself. I've already answered that and you yourself said you've reduced it. Mr. Senator, if you could look at the own income of such an institution as the National Environmental Fund, and compare it, for example. with income from the Regional Environmental Fund in Katowice... I'll tell you, this own income in this case isn't particularly smaller. It is a large fund of this voivodship environmental fund in Katowice, big in the sense of... [[There's something to milk...]] Well, congratulations on that approach. I mean, if you think you're gonna milk it, then you really have to fight it. And congratulations on that approach. This is actually a great description of what PiS is doing in environmental protection, but probably also in many other public institutions. Because it really needs to be... How did you say that? Oh, there's something to milk. Well, congratulations. There's really no better description here. And now I understand why you fought so hard... [[Could you answer the question, please? I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but these are political statements, and I have a very simple question. Why are you increasing it? Answer that question.]] [[Good. Okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] I too ask you, Mr. Marshal, to keep an eye on your club mate, because the term "something to milk" is a disaster, and you should... excuse me, Mr. Senator. [[Okay...]] ...and you didn't. [[I'll decide when to pay attention.]] Good. I'm so happy for you. [[Senator, please act as rapporteur.]] I'm trying, but it's not as easy as you noticed. Thank you so much, Mr. Marshal. Hence this record: 2 to 5. That means there could be two, and there could be five. This will be decided by the voivodship board, e.g. Silesian, and this board, if my memory is correct, are councillors associated with your option. So I don't understand what you're afraid of. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u304	Ask around? [[One last question.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u305	If something's shrinking, it's shrinking. This means that spending on persons who perform their functions, in this case on board members, becomes smaller. If there's an increase in the number of board members... You're the ones who want to increase that number, not us, that's your offer. One more time: now there are 1, 2 members, and you want it to be 2, 5. Very simple question: what is the result of this change, which allows for an increase in the number of board members? Because neither income, nor competence, nor responsibilities, nor powers increase. At least there are no such records in this project. And I didn't get the answer to that question. As for the assessment of how voivodship boards and individual funds work, this is not the subject of this discussion, but if you want, we can discuss it, there is no problem. I'm asking for a brief answer. Do you know why you're increasing this number or not? If you don't know, please tell me I don't know, and if you do, give me a clear answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u306	Please don't suggest an answer to the senator. You're welcome, Senator. Just answer the question as well as you can. Let's get this argument over with.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is a proposal that will make the voivodship funds manageable. The final decision on this number will be taken by the management boards of voivodships, local governments of voivodships, which give statutes to voivodship environmental funds. And this is a proposal that will make it unnecessary to carry out fiction, which means that there are two board members, and there are a lot more people on management positions, executive positions, i.e. outside the board. Because that's what it looks like today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, just as you are not surprised by the negative position of the government, I am not surprised by the positive positions of the majority of the voivodeship seymists in which your political formation governs or co-chairs. But I have specific questions. I see that there is also an opinion of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in addition to the opinions of the management boards. In your report you said that you have a number of opinions from entrepreneurs and NGOs. What else? In addition to the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, business organisations and NGOs have given an opinion on this project, and what were the opinions? And second question: what requirements, according to your project, will the candidates for representatives of non-governmental organisations in the supervisory boards of the voivodship funds have to meet? It's about NGOs or environmental organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u310	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u311	Thank you very much. If memory does not confuse me, there are 16 voivodships in Poland, and in 9 there are people connected with Law and Justice. In the others there are coalitions of other environments, very diverse coalitions, so I don't really think about it in purely political terms. I care about the interests of local governments and do not look at them through the prism of whether there are people involved with opposition or with the current government camp. I'm far from thinking like that. I care about that. And that's why this initiative However, in order for the local governments of the voivodship to have supervision of the funds, regardless of who sits on the management boards of these voivodships and what is the majority in individual seymikas at present. So you absolutely shouldn't look at it that way. I was talking about the support of the local government. Not only did the Polish Voivodship Association express a positive opinion on this matter, but the Polish Towns Association also supported this solution. I was talking about the support of environmental NGOs, because many of these voices have come out. I do not really remember this part about employers' organisations, but I talked to some of their representatives about this and everyone said unanimously that they were supporting this solution. I don't remember if it was later formalized in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u312	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Senator, rapporteur! My question concerns the facts, which actually is to return to what was not so many years ago, i.e. the regional environmental funds will be subject to the management and local government of the voivodship. What reasons do you think were at the heart of the change in this order, from which everyone was satisfied except the rulers? Because they centralized this fund and took out this piece, which really is regional, because completely different problems have Mazowsze, completely different Western Pomerania, completely different Rzeszowszczyzna. And the local government decided how to allocate funds for environmental protection, proper protection of the right environment in its own territory. What was the basis for centralising and taking from local governments the competences and resources that were provided in the voivodship funds for the implementation of competences? Because today, yes, air protection is the job of the voivodship, but there is no means to maintain this clean air. Penalties which may come for non-compliance will be imposed on the voivodship authorities, which have no impact on the way this task is financed. What was the reason for the change and centralization of voivodship environmental funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u314	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u315	Thank you very much. Of course, I can only speak of my opinion, and I can no longer speak on behalf of the committee. This is, of course, in my opinion what has been happening since 2016 in the part related to local governments as such. The government is centralizing and taking away everything that is possible on the side of funding, and wants to have an impact on these instruments. And it's not just related to voivodship environmental funds, it's just one of the segments clearly visible. Everything that's a problem, the government leaves on the side of local governments as such. Environmental protection is just one of the areas of centralization and take-over, and perhaps what the senator was talking about. I don't want to say it again. That is to say, such a swing at money, a desire to take over influence, influence, to treat it as a political instrument, not an instrument to solve environmental problems. This is what I look at with sadness, because really there are no political colors and attention to air quality, another in Silesia, and another in Podkarpacie or Podlasie, also there are no political colors. These problems need to be really solved and people who live in different places, regions need to be involved, and these people are being sent today, i.e. It is up to the government to decide who will manage in particular places. And how's that working out? I don't want to talk about it either. I could also talk about the great waste in individual voivodship funds, but this bill doesn't talk about it, so I won't refer to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Well, thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] [[I wanted to...]] Question? [[Not a question. I was one of the authors of the amendment. It's about setting a date for a committee meeting at this meeting...]] [[Yes, sir.]] I understand, okay. [[I would also like to make such an application. The amendments were submitted earlier.]] Good. Thank you very much. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft submitted? You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński: From the place or...]] Over here, please. If you prefer...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u317	I can't ignore the opportunity to correct some of the information, the words that came out of that speaker. I do not doubt that this proposal is based on very sincere intentions, but I have two fundamental problems with it. The first is growth. the costs of management which it may generate. I would like to stress here that the costs of the boards I wrote about in the information I sent to the committee are not the costs of the whole institution, these are not the costs which result from changing the level of employment of ordinary employees in these funds. These are management expenses. I assume, of course, that the person who prepared the senator for you. A note for this meeting, she gave such incomplete information. The second element I would like to correct is the question of the amounts that are available in the voivodship funds. It's not just the number of contracts that have increased. We've given these numbers in our information. But also the amount allocated by the funds. The changes that were introduced a few years ago significantly improved the functioning of the voivodship funds and therefore I have some fear of returning to the past and the way we know that it was less efficient than the one we have today in terms of improving the quality of our environment. [[That's not true, that's absolutely not true.]] What are the main programmes that are implemented with these funds? This is, of course, clean air. That's where these high numbers come from. These funds, although their organisation has changed, are very strongly committed to improving air quality in voivodships and operate in accordance with the central level of the clean air programme, which brings very good results through cooperation with local authorities. We have signed a thousand agreements with municipalities to involve municipalities more actively in the implementation of this programme. We see clear differences. In municipalities that actively participate in the programme, there are better results. Finally, I'd like to correct another piece of information. With regard to the role of the WFŚiGW as implementing bodies, the change took place here in the reprogramming of the current financial perspective. In 2014, Minister Bieńkowska introduced a change which deprived the regional funds of this role. I do not know why there is a grudge to the Ministry of Climate, where it is said that it has made such a change, because this change took place much earlier. I think the senator has not accidentally summoned a regional fund in Katowice as such a special, extremely large fund across the country. Why is it so big? That is why it is extremely large, that under the PAIiIZ the fund was entrusted with the implementation of a very significant programme for improving air quality in Silesia. This fund has an exceptionally large amount of money in relation to other voivodship funds. This again shows that cooperation between central administration and voivodship funds is more efficient. The Last Issue It may not be so fundamental in terms of efficiency of solutions, which I would like to address, is the legal issue, the essence of the voivodship funds. Of course, you can refer to the PIA Act, which says that these are self-government organizations, but you still need to understand what this means. And here the judgment of the Voivodship Administrative Court in Olsztyn, which took place in 2010 and which emphasizes that the voivodship funds are not created by the voivodship, but by law, is very helpful. It is further said that these are not voivodship organizational units, because the voivodship funds constitute a separate organizational structure, equipped with legal personality and functioning alongside these units. Thus, our judiciary has absolutely confirmed such an interpretation, that these are not entities which are the emanation of local governments, but are separate organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u318	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay on the stand, or there will be questions from the senators. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski reporting first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u319	Mr. Marshal, there are some things we need to clear up to the end. High Izbo! Minister! As for the fact that 2 is less than 5, I think I've already convinced, but there are other issues that are much more serious. Well, in the notes of this committee meeting on which this bill was considered... I'm sorry, the draft law at first reading, one fact struck me, namely the number of tasks accomplished, of course on the average of the year, when the supervisory boards were appointed by government factors, when the voivodship funds were supervised by the government. Compared to the previous period, this is 10:1. That is, the change in the management that has been proposed and which is currently in force has resulted in or continues to result in a 10-fold increase in the number of tasks carried out. Could the Minister give you specific figures, how much it was before, how much it is now and, of course, how much it resulted in? Because that's important, too, because that's, for example. for such individual beneficiaries, it translates into specific aid. The numbers will tell you everything about what is really going on, what is the current state, and what will be the one that is proposed by the states, which is actually back to what was before.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u320	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u321	Thank you very much. With regard to the number of contracts signed, last year the voivodship funds signed a total of over 95 thousand contracts, and before the reform we want to unwind here, in 2017 they signed 9,5 thousand contracts, which is an increase, as the senator said, ten times as far as the number of contracts is concerned. Contrary to what has been said earlier, this increase also applies to the amounts allocated to these tasks, because the total value of these agreements increased at the same time between 2017 and 2020 from 1 billion 600 million to 2 billion 600 million in 2020. So this is also a very significant increase in quotas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u322	Thank you. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski signed up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes you have to correct the correction, because if you don't give the full data... Anyway, somebody once said half the truth was a lie, so I want to relate to those half-truths. Indeed, Minister, you have even presented such nice graphics showing the reduction of management costs, a clear decrease, but it is a pity that you have not shown the costs of functioning of the voivodship administration in environmental funds. Or I'll say it again: you moved it from the board level to the headmaster level. It's not on the board, but it's at the director's level. You haven't reduced the cost of running the administration as such. There's no table on this graph. You're reporting an increase in revenue here. Mr. Senator, this is governed by the law, because this is a percentage of the amounts that result from environmental taxes or environmental penalties. So there aren't many instruments here. There is one difference, it concerns interaction with the national environmental fund, but this interaction took place earlier and in many areas, including large projects. Finally, another case, the issue of the number of contracts. How you carry out such fairly shampoos projects as the program "My currents" 5 thousand PLN per grant The fact that, so to speak, it makes thousands of contracts is really thousands of contracts, because here is the amount of PLN 5,000. But I will appeal to my region, to the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. If 2 giant water and sewage projects are implemented, related to water protection, water supply and waste water treatment for Szczecin The figure here is perhaps 1 billion 500 or 1 billion 600 thousand, so a huge investment is then one contract. You can compare it: tens of thousands of contracts of 5,000 and one contract for 1 billion. Another major project on water and sewage management is an investment in the Parseta basin, also for over PLN 1 billion. I would like to say that, after all, these officials, employees of the voivodship funds, who have been involved in such big projects, have much more work, really much more work than those working on one shampoo project or proposal, which concerns co-financing under the There really is a lot more work there and those who know about it know why. Those who do not know, I really encourage you to talk to those who judge these conclusions and know what this procedure looks like. Therefore, there is no justification here... Well, if you, Minister, would show all the costs and revenue, then we would actually have a holistic picture of the functioning of the administration in the voivodship funds. And one last thing. Minister, I've said it before, I'll say it again. I was the author of these records concerning a local legal person, not someone else, just me. So if you ask me what I had in my head then, I'm telling you that I had in my head that these funds should be supervised by local governments, voivodships. I know the administrative court's ruling. He doesn't change the fact that it's a local legal person, he doesn't change it, and of course it's created by law, which agrees, under the Environmental Law, but this child knows it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u324	Thank you very much. It's for discussion, isn't it? Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz came forward at the last minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I, as a longtime self-government officer, must speak on this issue. Of course, I support this bill, and in a moment, I'll tell you why. I'm a little disappointed when it comes to the senator on the right, I'm not going to mention a name I respect for professionalism and always professional preparation. But such words as the money jump, the cash register, still milk him... Well, it's shocking to me, Senator, even though, as I said, I respect your professionalism and I thought I'd never hear you say that. This is particularly painful for me as a self-government officer. I can tell you what kind of money the board members in my town have been getting. Let's say $1,000 200. Yes, because in the local government there is a rule that every local governmentman is responsible for what he does and is looking for the best solutions, the cheapest solutions and the most effective. There are exactly 2 thousand local governments in Poland 474, if I'm not mistaken, and every government can be different. But I would really be far from generalized. Saying the government's making money, and that's what he's creating, say, some function to make money... Well, I'll never agree with that. At least I've never done it and cared for the interests of my people and economic efficiency, I've always tried to pay the least I could. Sometimes you have to pay a little bit more, because, for example, the regulations that have come in, concerning the presidents of water and sewage companies, have made me have to raise my salary for the president. Nevertheless, this salary was still at the lower limit of forks, the least I could pay. That is why I will defend local governments as independence and I will argue that the less countries in the country, the better for this country. I will also absolutely defend the thesis that Poland's greatest success after 1989. And I'm gonna say it like a mantra. It is self-government reform and that we have self-governments. What has happened in recent years, the acquisition of institutions of the type just voivodship environmental protection funds or Polish Waters which... I think we will also discuss this topic someday. Because it's a drama for me. I'm not gonna dwell on that right now. Did you take over the farm advisory centers... It shows that, well, unfortunately, sometimes there is such a jump on the money, contrary to the interests of the local government. However, the local government is the owner, the local government makes decisions and takes responsibility for these decisions. And, as I said, the closer it is to settle decision-makers by the residents, the better. The government is already something far away. Self-government is, you can say, within reach. In general, I think that the local government, starting from the villages, through local governments, to the voivodships, is the best thing that could happen to Poland. I don't know why... I'm actually wondering... Because I'm not really that deep into the functioning of voivodship environmental funds, because I've always performed, as a self-government officer, more as a beneficiary or seeking some money. And I know that lately, after the takeover of voivodship environmental funds by the government, it was very difficult to know anything. And I'm wondering why it's not self-government to decide, for example. about the sharing of money into the so-called. Cinderella. Cinderella exchange... And we're looking for the best solution. And I will say decisively: the local government knows better, being closer to the citizen, what the most effective decisions to make. That's why I'm in favour of amending this bill. As far as these quantities are concerned, let me be honest: I also don't know why. I don't know either. I think the intention was more like this. And I'm gonna ask you that, too. That, let's say, the amount stays the same, but if you divide it into how many members... Whether there's two or five of you, that's your business. I mean, it's not your business. It's the landlord's case. It's a self-governmentman who makes decisions and takes responsibility for them. I think so. That's the most rational thing to do. Also, the question of how many members of the board... Alternatively, if there are to be representatives of environments, that is, an organization dealing with e.g. Protecting the environment, then perhaps for some small money representatives of such environments should be there. Then the number of members of such counsel would be greater. But I think it's up to the landlords to decide that. So, well, I'd leave it to them. About the number of decisions you were talking about... I respect you very much as a great mathematician, because I've heard all the good things about you when it comes to science. Mr. Senator, if we take $1,000 and divide by 100, how much do we have? What will be the result of this division? And if we divide 1,000 by 10, what's the result of this division? So if you don't know what money was shared, what key, what proportions, and how many parts, it's completely unnecessary to draw conclusions, I think. Because if we really found out that someone had done more work and this job was much more efficient, and according to some indicator, we would have counted it. Okay, no problem. But such simple sharing by a strict mind is really unnecessary and misleading. Because we don't know how much... If we were to carry out... This is what the rapporteur said here. If, on the one hand, we were talking about one big project for billions of dollars, and on the other, that we'd spent, I don't know, a thousand decisions on the change of furnaces, would that be comparable or not? Well, that's not comparable. It's not. So this argument is completely failing. And at the end, I'm just gonna say it one more time... Maybe I'll say one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, governments are changing. Probably, I don't know, we'll see, hopefully, honestly, in three years' time governments will change. And we today... who defends who, whose business? I think, however, that the interests of the local government, the host, should take over the business of ad hoc, political. And with all the money we're gonna make today, we're gonna be able to defend ourselves politically, because it's gonna cost us economically... I think we should run away from such thinking and look for solutions that will serve both during this term of government and when the next term of office of government comes. And then optics can change. And I think we should look in the direction. It's the landlord. Once again, the closer the landlord gets to making decisions, the closer the landlord gets to the landlord, the better. So we should move away from nationalisation, nationalising many institutions, and giving power to local governments. Because that's where the resident is closer, making decisions is easier to figure out. Because at least the election card in the local government is doing its job. And that responsibility is... Where? New Salt. So I'm going to continue defending the self-government. I believe that self-government is the institution that knows best because it is closest to the resident The best and the most effective way to spend money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u326	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I also inform you that Senators Świlski, Szwed, Gorgon-Komor, Gromek, Bieda, Pęcherz, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Jazłowiecka have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators of Bieda and Gawłowski. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. The Senators Gawłowski and Poore have requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll take the view that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on State Compensation for victims of certain criminal offences, the Law on Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. It is included in print No 91 and the committee's report In print No 91 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Law on State Compensation for Victims of Certain Offences, the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, contained in print No 91. The Senate Marshal sent a letter to the Legislative Commission in March last year together with a draft law to consider it at first reading. The committees have completed their work in joint meetings. We started on 25 June 2020 and ended on the beginning of this year; this was also related to the request for detailed financial data. At the meeting on 29 January this year, we examined the draft law presented by the applicants at first reading, amended it and requested that the Senate adopt a single attached draft amending the law on state compensation for victims of certain criminal offences. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it is so that in the legal order the rules are actually dead. A law that is so rare that even using words that we have created a symbolic opportunity for a citizen is a profound, gross abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, we can say that until then, the compensation institution in 2014 and 2018 was used in such a way that the total amount of compensation granted did not exceed 365 thousand PLN throughout Poland over the four years. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no mistake here. It is 365 thousand PLN in the years 2014-2018. So much has been paid in accordance with the provisions in force so far in the context of compensation for criminal offences. It should also be pointed out that the legislator seemed to have noticed this problem because in 2015 these provisions were amended. Even then, it was diagnosed that this institution was rarely used. Yes, the compensation institution was used very rarely. Despite this revision of the 2015 legislation, we were able to see this by looking at the data In the following years, it was still rarely used. This was despite the fact that the 2015 amendment raised the upper limit of the amount of compensation, deleted the rules which ruled it out in certain cases of remission and allowed compensation to be granted in the event of non-deception of the perpetrator of the prohibited act. Significantly, the victim was exempted from the costs of civil court proceedings by new rules. You can ask why, then. Despite the fact that this is possible in the legal system, although the provisions have already been amended in order to make greater use of these compensations In practice, this institution does not continue to function. The answer to this question is that, at present, compensations are included in the budgets of the courts in the same pool as administrative resources such as training. This causes that in some cases It's hard not to get that impression. The judges must adjust the amount of benefits to the low level of resources remaining after the other administrative tasks have been carried out. Of course, the second element is too rarely effectively informing people who would be entitled to compensation that this possibility exists. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this project will effectively address these problems. What do we propose in the revision of the legislation related to the initiative with which the Senate Legislative Commission comes? In order to increase the effectiveness of compensation institutions, we propose, firstly, that maximum time limits be set for courts to recognise cases. However, the compensation case should be settled at first instance no later than 6 months after the date of the application for compensation to the court and the appeal should be heard within 3 months from the date of its submission. Secondly, we point out that the compensation will be paid by the Minister of Justice through a regional court within one month of the date of the decision. The key change, ladies and gentlemen, is that compensation will be paid from the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, commonly referred to as the Fund of Justice. The district court shall keep separate records of the compensation paid. Thirdly, we extend the possibility to claim an advance on compensation by the amount of earnings or other maintenance costs lost. Fourthly, we introduce an obligation to inform the victims of the offence of the possibility of applying for a security against state compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed changes in our assessment have the opportunity to effectively eliminate those elements of the existing system, which in practice make them dead records. This view also seems to be shared by the actors and institutions to which we have requested an opinion on the proposed amendments to the legislation. As regards the opinions which were sent to the committee, the Minister of Justice welcomed the direction of the action taken, in particular as regards the dissemination in society of knowledge about the possibilities for applying the solutions envisaged in the project. He also expressed some doubts about some of the elements contained in the proposal, but I think that we addressed them clearly and clearly at the committee meeting. The project was also fully supported I'm referring to opinions here. By the Foundation for the Assistance of Victims of Crimes and by the Supreme Court, who expressed the view that it is reasonable to propose that the court hearing compensation should hear the case for granting it no later than within 6 months and that it would be advisable to fix a time limit for a hearing of the appeal at the level of 3 months. In the Supreme Court's view, there are no doubts as to the transitional provisions. In turn, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights assessed that the proposed changes were going in the right direction. The Ombudsman welcomes the intention to speed up the procedure for determining compensation for victims of crime. The initiative itself was an initiative for which we were inspired by the Ombudsman's speech. When making law in parliament, we should always remember that the rule of law is to be formulated so that it is clear, legible and to be applied in practice. Today we can say that the rules and regulations, as well as the practice of their operation in the context of compensation for victims of certain criminal offences, are so formulated that compensation is granted but only formally. The aim of this project is to ensure that compensation is granted to citizens in a real way. I am very cordially asking on behalf of the Joint Committees to adopt this extremely necessary project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u328	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about your opinions. You said that both the Ombudsman and the Minister of Justice expressed their views on the direction of the action taken. And so it was indeed, in fact, but they raised a number of doubts. In the impact assessment, we have information that, according to the Ombudsman, the project will not implement these assumptions in practice, because despite positive intentions it has a very limited and even selective character and requires a thorough rewording, based on completely different assumptions. And further: the introduction of an instructional period when courts are objectively unable to identify the case within the time limit prescribed by the law will only increase compensation from the State Treasury related to the length of court proceedings. The Minister of Justice also referred to this, who had doubts about the content of the proposed paragraph. 4b. As we read here, this situation will result in further property claims against the State Treasury. How are you gonna deal with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u330	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u331	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! An advance institution in the context of state compensation as collateral for a claim shall cover only the part which covers the necessary costs of treatment, rehabilitation or burial. Ladies and gentlemen, think of how to treat the argument that the opinion institution, in this case the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, is concerned about whether there is any point in introducing a provision, because in practice, the courts may not be able to do so at that time. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this compensation is due e.g. to cover the necessary costs of treatment. It means that what I'm sorry to say is so colloquially That we will say that compensation for the cost of treatment will be granted to such a person after 2 years after the end of treatment or 5 years after the end of rehabilitation? To be honest, I was so embarrassed by this part of the opinion that I consciously said that we had raised doubts at the committee meeting. This is the way of formulation of this thought, and I assume that the unintentional one is not giving the best testimony to the one who has prepared such an opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u332	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls... [[I still have...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Senator, stay with us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! With kindness, with bread, not with a stone for you now... Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, i.e. transitional provisions. I'm talking about the print we're doing right now, which is print number 91 S. See that there's a reference to the article. 12a, and such an article is no longer in this printing, he was in primary printing. The numbering has changed, just a little bit the layout of the amended regulations has changed. We're not adding a new article. 12a, and we're changing the article. 12. Art. 12a is no longer in material regulations. [[Mr. Senator's done, right? Excuse me...]] Your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u334	Mr Senator, of course we are working as joint committees on the project, we are always particularly guided by the opinion of the legislators. I must honestly say that I am not able to say now whether the correct wording is the reference to the article. 12a or Art. 12, like you said, 'cause I'd have to take a look at the print. I'd say I don't rule out that you're right about that. Of course, I would very much like to consult with the Senate's Legislative Office to see if the letter is contained in the printing correctly or incorrectly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u335	Let me just say that there is no article in the original text that we are changing. 12a, he's not in the changes either, so you can't appeal to him. But really, someone should decide not on the basis of opinion, but on the basis of knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u336	Mr. Senator, the Legal Office is giving an opinion. And this is where I'm gonna defend the Legislative Bureau, which I understand you're criticizing right now. It is based on the knowledge of legislators, not on their feelings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u337	Thank you very much. The questioning list is over. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? Minister Michał Woś, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mr. Marshal, very briefly. Thank you very much.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u338	The Senator rapporteur put it this way that the ministry's opinion is positive. Well, the ministry's opinion on this project, and I hate to say it, is negative. Obviously very well, all state institutions should be in favour of promoting compensation as such to raise public awareness of the existence of this mechanism, but unfortunately this project does not satisfy this demand for a number of reasons. The first one, as the senator pointed out... I could not imagine, recalling the Ombudsman or others, that they themselves would indicate that they were afraid of compensation for their long-term conduct. Well, it's a six-month instructional term, which, yes, we would like to keep in court practice. We know this well and the rapporteur, because of his extensive experience, including the Minister of Justice, would in many cases be impossible to achieve, including. because the second stage reform of the justice system has not been completed. And here we have to point out that there is indeed a question of responsibility, including the Senate, for the state. Well, the level of claims... yeah, we all want it, that's a very good direction, you have to support the victims in all possible cases. But in this case, this colorful example of the cost of treatment, for example... This can be achieved, and this is also in the opinion of the Minister of Justice, by securing, by simple safeguards, which in the legal order, function in the Polish legal order. Many other reservations on the legislative side of this project have been made in writing. I would like to draw attention to some risks that are born if this project were to find recognition first of the High Senate and later of the Sejm. The Senator pointed out that this is a common name, but no, it is a statutory name, and precisely the short name of the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, has no legal personality, it is just a separate bank account. In addition, it is a specific special-purpose fund whose revenue does not come exclusively from public resources, as is the case with such a typical special-purpose fund. And here there is a serious systemic risk, because if the level of compensation increased so much that it would exceed the possibilities of the Justice Fund, of course we wish for the amount so that as many victims of crime would be able to receive the risk of the source of these additional liabilities. Because, while the state budget is a place where it is possible, of course, to use appropriate planning methods, in line with the guidelines of the Minister of Finance, such measures are included, but the Justice Fund, as an isolated bank account, is not such a place. And that would be the counterproductive idea. In addition, issues of the nature of regression or various claims would give rise to serious doubts about this and in this project the case is not covered by who would be the subject in the proceedings. The Fund as an ordinary bank account, a separate bank account, as a special special special purpose fund is not a legal person, so at the moment when we have an unambiguous statio fisci, it would be the President of the District Court. In the event of a change, if this project were to find recognition on the legislative path of the Sejm and then again on the Senate, it would be a question of who would be the recipient of any claims, including regression claims. These are the two main reasons why the Minister of Justice While appreciating, as I am saying, the right direction to disseminate information about the fact that an institution of compensation for victims, for victims, for victims, exists for those who are victims of crime, there is a view that the solutions applied here are difficult to implement due to systemic conditions. At the same time, it must be said that the Justice Fund, having also a role in supporting victims of crime, is fulfilling this role, and it is fulfilling... Well, let the numbers speak here, let the statistics speak. By 2015, it was about PLN 15 million for victims of crime, for victims of crimes and there were dozens of points in Poland, only dozens of points O, one can say, very or even extremely left-handed conduction related to the feminist movement At present there are more than 350 centres of aid for the victims throughout Poland. With each district court or, in fact, in each court district, there is a designated organisation which grants such assistance, at the same time being obliged to maintain a point of assistance to the victims. Anyone can report there. And that's our business together. I also strongly encourage the High Senate, the senators, to promote the action of the Justice Fund, because there victims, victims of crime, can get full help. And it is not only the number of points of aid to the victims that prove this, but also the scale, i.e. the increase from 15 million, because at the moment the Polish State spends, within the framework of the Justice Fund, more than 86 million each year, only on this aid, and I do not count here a number of other multiannual programmes, which are being implemented by the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Alexander Szwed, Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski and Mr. Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you've actually already answered the questions I wanted to ask. Because I wanted to raise just this issue, which I questioned the rapporteur, which was about the Ombudsman's doubts, but also about the wording of the proposed paragraph. 4b. So it's just that the six-month period in which the courts would have to consider the case is unrealistic. This would result in an increase in claims for compensation from the State Treasury. I also had a second question, but the Minister explained this too, saying that these claims would not be against the Justice Fund. This impression could be drawn from the rapporteur's report. It is to the State Treasury that the Justice Fund has no legal personality. But to a large extent, these doubts... I mean, the Minister has already basically answered these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u341	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u342	As the senator said, there is indeed a problem, especially about the second question, to be precise. Because you don't actually know who would be the recipient of any claims. I mean, the Treasury, but there's an indeterminate statio fisci in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u343	Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u344	I have three questions. The Minister said that the objectives laid down in the Act I'm quoting exactly what I'm quoting here. The security that operates in the Polish legal order can be achieved. If it can be achieved, I would like to ask: why in the years 2014 and 2018, despite the fact that there is a security in the Polish legal order, the level of use of the provisions of the Compensation Act, as I said, is PLN 365 thousand? Second question: whether By following this lead, such a puristic name... The Minister said that the Social Justice Fund is not a common name. Then I'll ask for a full name, because the name of the Justice Fund doesn't exist. This is only one of the members of this name. The whole name, as we both know, also covers the longer part. I'm asking for her application. And the third thing: if you're worried about what's also a concern for me, whether you're going to run out of money from a fund that you're about to call in full, is it true... Let me rephrase that. Could the Minister tell you how much financial resources are in the fund's account each year? At the same time, we remember that 365 thousand were spent on compensation in 2014. Because, of course, I would like to address with concern whether the fear of lack of resources should be regarded as justified.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u345	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u346	Your Senate, regarding the first question and security in the years 2014 and 2018... Well, Senator rapporteur and certainly the High Senate know that security as a civilist institution is applied at the request of the plaintiff. This is the result of the article. 7531 §3 k.p.c. As for the second question, the name of the Justice Fund is exactly in the article. 43 in §1a of the implementing criminal code. First, in §1 is the name of the Fund for the Help of the Disadvantaged and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, and in §1a the short name, also statutory, is the Fund of Justice. As for the third question, High Senate, it was the Senator rapporteur in the report who expressed his concerns as to whether the judges, when deciding on compensation, sometimes do not face this dilemma, whether to take account first of the administrative expenditure of the court and only later of compensation. Well, that's the argument I don't want to use here... please excuse me, I'm definitely not reflecting this assessment. And we would also like to be the Ministry of Justice to uphold the good name of the judges in this case. Certainly, the High Senate will not find a judge in Poland who would calculate whether compensation should be paid to the victim first or whether the court will have electricity. I assure you that in the budget of the Justice Department And I'm responsible for that, too. There will be no shortage of resources for this. I'm sure these shifts, especially expenses... If it turned out that administrative expenditure would be higher than compensation, there would certainly be compensation. And that's what we're gonna care about. And as for the fund, the financial plan assumes more than 200 million or 250 million. [[Thank you very much.]] But, Senator, this is a plan that's being changed. It is necessary to amend this plan in view of the situation, including the situation in the courts, as well as the scale of the actions of the Justice Fund. Because please remember that the Fund for Hurted and Post-Penitentiary Assistance has 3 objectives, 3 basic tasks according to the Act. The main goal is to help the victims. Here I pointed out that as the Ministry of Justice, we have extended this aid from 15 million to 90 million. The point is, as I say, the direct handling of the victims, as well as a number of multi-annual State security programmes, with assistance from the victim, with investment expenditure and with better equipment for the relevant services. All these things make up the fund's expenses. For example, I will talk about the Clinic in Warsaw, the clinic for victims of road accidents, people who are in a long coma and which clinic with success You can say that, we're all happy about it. It restores normal functioning. These are the expenses that the Justice Fund has. Aid for victims, post-penitentiary aid, competitions, grants awarded in the form of a contest. This is a very important task related to the social readaptation of prisoners, there are a number of such projects and programs throughout Poland. Another very important... Unfortunately, the attention of many political commentators is clear from the fact that the Justice Fund has been extended to a third basic objective. The fund has three objectives. The third is to tackle the causes of crime. It's not crime, it's the causes of crime. These are all preventive measures related to the reduction of crime in Poland. It can be said that statistics from recent years show that this goal, actions leading to the reduction of crime in Poland... The Government of the United Right can boast about these statistics. I'm not gonna say he can be proud because we'd always want it to be more and better. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u347	Thank you. You want to ask the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u348	Yes. Please, in that case... I'm still worried, of course, that these 385 grand could upset the fund. The Minister is talking about a plan, and we never know how it will be implemented. Please provide information on the receipts to the fund in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. I'm asking about the proceeds, I'm not asking you about the expenses, I didn't judge them, I have knowledge in this area, because the Supreme Auditorium was controlling the activities of the Justice Fund. I am not expressing this knowledge now, we can discuss it. I only have a question about the proceeds to the fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u349	As for the proceeds to the fund, we will reply in writing. [[The Minister doesn't know what the proceeds to the fund were last year or two years ago?]] Minister, the account... Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[I'm asking for revenue, not expenses.]] Yes. The time for settlement is by the end of March. May the High Senate forgive me. On a daily basis, I do not oversee the Justice Fund, so I will put in writing information about the influences in order to be precise and fair towards the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u350	It's a possibility. I'll take note of it in the minutes. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The aim of this project is clear, but the project itself is so designed that you can I'm not hiding it, someone can move, because it's a little senate term to understand. That's what I'd call it. That's why I'm asking. Should the legislation that the Ministry questions be removed from the draft, i.e. on the source of funding and the time limits imposed on the court, and leave those which are directly linked to the use of funds for the purposes indicated in the Act, the government, could the Minister accept such a project? This isn't about chasing a bunny, so there's a beautiful project in the Seym, because most of the senate is able to vote it out and that's it. The point is to actually increase the possibility for people who are entitled to compensation, because that is fair. To sum up, I'm going to ask if, after removing the rules that the Minister has questioned, it would be possible to... I don't know how to say this. Would it simply be possible to give a positive opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u352	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Senate! Well, if we were to remove those rules that we raise some doubts about, then in the project itself, there would be little left. The intention is to give the instructional term in the first place, in the second place. For the payment of this money, the compensations are carried out by the Justice Fund. And it's not like we're gonna, let's say, we don't want to... or we're gonna think that the 300 grand one way or the other is gonna hurt the Justice Fund. No, absolutely not. We are talking about the fact that the systemic problem is that the Justice Fund does not have legal personality in a situation where, in the current rules on compensation, the state budget guarantees the payment of these funds. The point is that he can properly carry out those tasks that are or were, as we understand it, the intention of the applicants of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u354	Thank you very much. The list of questioners has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I, of course, still being overwhelmed by possible information that the project would violate the finances of the Justice Fund Let's use this name already. I found the budget report quickly. I'd like to pass on to the Minister here. You won't have to give that information in writing anymore. That in 2019 the income of the social justice fund amounted to PLN 367 million 476 thousand. In 2018, the revenue of the Justice Fund amounted to PLN 325 million 371 thousand. Let me remind you: payments on compensation for the years 2014 to 2018 amounted to PLN 300 80 thousand. So there's no doubt This is the data from the report on the implementation of the financial plan contained on the websites of the Supreme Audit Chamber, following an audit which, I also stress, the Supreme Audit Chamber prepared for the President of Marian Banasi. The report was signed in June 2020. I refer to the data contained in this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u356	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Gromko, Sweden, Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. It is included in print No 239 and the committee's report In print No 239 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The draft law on amending the law. The Code of Criminal Procedure is a legislative draft of the Legislative Commission. The project was launched on 22 October 2020 and addressed to 2 committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The first reading of the draft took place on 29 January 2021 at the meeting of the Joint Committees, which I had just mentioned. The purpose of the Act is to extend the list of grounds contained in Chapter 58 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for which the right to claim compensation and/or compensation from the Treasury for undoubtedly incorrect accusations, the application of a protective measure and prosecution, as well as the extension of the limitation period to 3 years of the possibility of claiming compensation or compensation. In the view of the applicants, there is no doubt that the accusations, accusations or the application of a preventive measure are wrong, e.g. a ban on leaving the country, harms and harms the State should take responsibility for. Events of investigations over the years, investigations that do not end in accusations, social pressure in the form of shaping public opinion, e.g. Showing movies of spectacular arrests, which then undermines the court, which we think is highly abused recently... This is a reason to say: no, this must not harm people, break their spines, allow the presumption of innocence to exist in practice, apply these undoubtedly unfair sanctions to people of public trust, to those who perform high governmental functions, to those who act in the economy. In such cases, having a good name is a condition for having a job or doing business. These are not isolated examples. I serve them, I would like to give them in my post-report statement. During the committee I spoke about the case of Mr Wojciech Kwaśniak, a man who, instead of pinning the medal, was placed on the hands of handcuffs and transported from Warsaw to Szczecin to give explanations. It was a person who, while performing high functions in banking supervision, caused that in the mob in Volomina, the Mafia in SKOKs was actually crashed and that the people who put their savings there were properly secured. This gentleman was beaten to death by a former member of the supervisory board on the doorstep of his home. The man who has such credit, thanks to whom the bank supervision of the SKOKs was created, we covered the bank guarantees of the persons and their savings, which in the SKOKs put in, was spectacularly imprisoned, treated in an extremely malicious manner, detained, searched, humiliated... It is not quite clear why, although I also spoke about it during the committee's deliberations as part of the justification for this project, somehow the arrest of Wojciech Kwaśniak with the arrest, slightly less spectacular, of the master who supervised the KNF and who made proposals that were not to be rejected by a banker, whom the Bank took over in the meantime the Treasury, if I remember correctly. We have an example of a high, really high officer of the Military Counterintelligence Service, who has been charged with espionage and is awaiting a court decision on his case for two years. The investigation isn't closed, there's no oversight, but the charges against this man are indicted, charges of this kind. There is a case of the head of a large State Treasury company, which this plant and this company from a grieving state led to a thriving state, and after a change of power it suddenly turned out that he was being charged. On the way to explain these charges... Called by the D.A.'s office, he goes to the D.A.'s office, and on his way to the D.A.'s office, he's arrested, spectacularly arrested, flashes, camera lenses... It is similar with the verdict of the court in the case of a high-ranking counterintelligence officer. It is similar with Mr. Wojciech Kwaśniak. Therefore, it can be said that these measures against those who are accused are abused and used with impunity. That's what we need to put an end to. This is definitely what the applicants for this project are in favour of. At the meeting... Oh, I'm sorry. The project was addressed by the Ombudsman, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the National Prosecutor, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, the Association of Attorneys, the Lex Super Omnia. We also have the expertise of Professor Teresa Gardocka. I'm not discussing all those opinions. I will tell you that both the Ombudsman and those institutions that are firmly on the side of the citizen give positive opinions about this project and those that represent the state's forces It's negative. And there is also the Supreme Court, which gives positive examples of the action of this type of legislation, at the same time abstains from the final decision to give them a right, and this opinion is kind of like Sorry, it was my feeling that someone recommended or suggested that it should be a bad opinion, but that bad opinion could not be due to these civil conditions, these human, this ordinary sense of justice, which should be accompanied by every legislator and everyone ruling. In the debate, aside from providing a public statement of reasons in this way... Senator Jerzy Czerwiński took the floor, who fears that if the laws so designed act, the prosecutors will be afraid to press charges. It also considers that the law restricts the State's application of the law and goes beyond the system that is in force today. Senator Borowski understands that there is a dilemma. Should the prosecutor chasing a criminal be afraid of being responsible for this prosecution? No, these regulations, in his opinion, are clearly saying that we are not pointing out the man who put the victim's case at risk. But Senator Borowski also notes that this ease of charge today, and then, when it turns out undoubtedly wrong, the unwillingness to repair the damage that has happened to man cannot be accepted, and believes that the citizen's interests here are more important than the interests of law enforcement agencies or institutions that represent the state. Senator Szejnfeld reminded us of today's law on property liability, which a public officer should bear at a time when he is clearly breaking regulations or abandoning his activities or helping a citizen, but he also reminded us that practically since his entry into force this law has been dead. As a result, the committees adopted There were 19 votes in favour, 8 against, 3 senators abstained. This project. I ask the High House to accept it without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u358	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The draft amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the proposed version is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, as evidenced by the correct extension of the limitation period provided for in Chapter 58 of that Law, or the replacement of the phrase However, doubts may be raised by maintaining the limitation of cases in which compensation and redress are granted to only one wrongly applied preventive measure, i.e. A temporary arrest. Bearing in mind that temporary arrest is the most vulnerable preventive measure, it is not possible to lose sight of other improperly applied preventive measures, including, in particular, common police supervision. It is the supervision of the person to whom it has been applied that generates costs in the form of travel expenses and undoubted losses in the form of lost earnings. Do you not think that it would be appropriate to demand that the powers of persons subject to a preventive surveillance measure be aligned with those of persons who have been unduly subject to a precautionary measure in the form of a temporary arrest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u360	If I understand the senator correctly... May I, Mr. Marshal? [[You're welcome, Senator.]] As far as I understand, the point is that not only is this undoubtedly wrong detention or prosecution to have a three-year period of claim for compensation or compensation. Mr. Senator, this bill covers all the circumstances arising from Chapter 58 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which includes this three-year limitation period, and therefore an unfair arrest, and an unfair conviction, and the application of a preventive measure. All these measures, if undoubtedly wrong and proven in court, because it is always a decision of the court, are subject to this period of 3 years of application.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u361	Thank you, Senator. No further questions, so thank you very much. Thank you very much. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Very, yes, yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, once again, Minister Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u362	I'll try very briefly. Mr Marshal, indeed, the rapporteur presented a key element, namely the dilemma of whether Polish officers should be afraid to fight criminals because they could then take personal responsibility. This project does not mean that their responsibility is excluded. And yet she was introduced, I'll remind you. In 2011, the Council adopted I believe Senator Kwiatkowski was the Minister of Justice at the time. So that the law on the liability of public officials for gross violation of the law was introduced at that time. So, if it were to prove that there were circumstances in connection with which someone was charged, despite being as careful as possible... Well, it's not true what the Senator rapporteur put forward, that a specific person, even if a specific prosecutor, who should be making such accusations in order to fight crime and protect citizens from criminals, could not be concerned in that case. So we are in favour of the Polish state acting effectively and effectively to fight crime. A few general arguments. This historical argument: there has never been such a solution in the Polish order, it has not been proposed since 1997, since we have a code of criminal proceedings. However, this is not just a matter of our order, because the same is true of international standards for the protection of human rights. None of the international documents even suggests the responsibility of the State to act at this stage. If someone was wrongly arrested, if this happened at a later stage, yes, but as far as the first phase is concerned, It can be said that this is the conclusion of the first phase of the procedure This is not the way it is planned. A different change seems to be important. She too was introduced not by our government, but by previous governments, exactly in 2009. At that time, there was, you can say, a very radical change in criminal proceedings and the stage of the charge. Namely, by 2009 the standards of the Code of Criminal Procedure were in force, according to which the prosecutor was required to provide a comprehensive explanation of the circumstances of the case in the preparatory proceedings. This was abandoned in 2009. This is very important: the conditions for a comprehensive explanation of the circumstances of the case have been waived and limited to the extent necessary for the submission of judicial evidence. Since such changes have taken place in this phase of the preparatory procedure, let us not expect public officials, such as prosecutors, to explain the circumstances comprehensively by them. Of course, when charges are made, all of this must be very much the same. To this extent, the matter is clarified, but there is still this small element of uncertainty, this small question mark. Well, that's why you press charges and refer the indictment to the court so that the court in the trial can explain all possible doubts and circumstances. And that is why we believe that the Polish state must stand a wall behind people who are clearly fighting crime. Of course, I do not want to refer to allegations relating to possible costs for the state budget, because this is much less important in this case, although I hope that the marshal will allow me to add one sentence. Well, I'm gonna refer to those costs before there's another idea to charge the Justice Fund. Well, in the case of the previous point, we heard information about giant, million-dollar revenues. Unfortunately, the Senator rapporteur did not notice any other item, i.e. receivables. The same report shows that these debts, i.e. unpaid funds This refers to one fund or another. In this case, it is more than 200 million. So the amount I was talking about was the real amount of $200.250 million. I am pleased that this will be clearly explained in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u363	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It'll be brief. Which Member States of the European Union do the solutions proposed by the applicants exist? Where do you pay compensation for the charges or the indictment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u365	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u366	The Ministry of Justice has not investigated this in all EU countries, although we have examined international standards for the protection of human rights and we know that this is not foreseen in these international standards. Among the requirements adopted in international standards for the protection of human rights there is no requirement to compensate for this particular stage of criminal proceedings in the preparatory phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u367	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I was going to start this speech completely differently, but I was inspired by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. This is a good question: in which European countries is it necessary to make such changes to the law in order to protect the citizen from abuse of the state? Well, where do European treasure ministers have 20 years of ongoing trials? In which of the European countries the former Deputy Minister of the Treasury for the third year waits for an indictment to be sent to court, but in the meantime the prosecutor, who seems to have sold the same Deputy Minister something for cheap, first finds that he has put the state's budget at a loss of 100, then 52 million, does not direct the indictment, for this he has secured by blocking bank cards, bank accounts, seized the claims for remuneration, seized the property and established a forced mortgage on real estate, in words, deprived the man of his means of life and has not brought the case to court for 3 years? In which European country just before a very important, loud trial, the defendant's lawyer is arrested in flashes of light, flashes of light, in front of the cameras? In which European country is the lawyer's law firm being searched? In which European state after the final judgment of the court that it was an improper search, unlawful, the prosecution declares that it will not respect that judgment? Which of the European countries therefore needs such solutions? I don't know. I know that in my country it is essential that citizens do not feel oppressed. Because if you race a man for 3 years without bringing a case to court for 50 million zlotys, to which the State Treasury reportedly put the loss, and meanwhile, you are eagerly sending a prosecutor who wanted to start a lawsuit against 70 million illegal elections that did not take place, if there are hundreds of kilometers from where he lives, and the commission is issued on Friday, and on Monday he is due to come to work... And nobody cares if you have to find a place to live from this Friday to Monday. Nobody cares if this D.A. has a little kid in his life. How is he supposed to go and come on Monday when, because of COVID and pandemics, hotels are closed and there's no place to stay in this new town to have a business life? In which of the European countries, a judge who does not like the ruling of an independent judge is being prosecuted by the prosecutor's office and cannot do his job? In this regard, however beautifully you would say to the Minister of Justice, how polite we would have behaved in this case, we need these rules because some of them: some guarantees give a citizen, even if this prosecutor who is after you today, who is abusing his powers, does so in an apparently unlawful way, which the court will judge, you have the right to compensation. So there's a bell that calls a willing prosecutor to follow all his orders, a bell that tells him: maybe not, maybe the law really is the law. And that's what this bill is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u369	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Świlski, Szwed, Gorgon-Komor and Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. I would like to remind you that this draft was submitted by the Legislative Commission and is included in print 187 and the committee's report In print No 187 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u370	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! In fact, it is an initiative of the Legislative Commission inspired by the Ombudsman's recommendations. It concerns the amendment of the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed as an activity for the independent existence of the Polish State. What is the essence of this bill? Compensation for activities within the territory of the Republic of Poland within the limits of the Russian Treaty, i.e. the so-called. the eastern lands of the Republic of Poland, only those who live or live in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in the territory of the contemporary Polish state, are entitled to their rights under today's legislation. It was pointed out that legislation discriminates against those who live and, above all, those who lived at the time of death in the eastern lands of the Republic. The bill therefore deals with the wording, which assumes that compensation will be granted both to people who live now or at the time of death in Poland and to those who live within the limits laid down in the Russian Treaty. This was, as we recall, a discussion within the Legislative Commission, i.e. clarification, use of precise and most appropriate wording in relation to the territory of the Second Republic of Poland. In dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... I would like to signal by now that I will submit an amendment which will use a slightly different wording, namely the Republic of Poland within the limits of 1 September 1939. I would like to remind you that the wording of the Ryska Treaty raised some doubts about it, among other things. Mr Marshal Borusewicz, as I recall, also Mr Senator Czerwiński It is restrictive because it leaves outside the scope of compensation opportunities for citizens who live or lived in Lithuania at the time of death. This formula of the Republic of Poland within the limits of 1 September 1939 will not raise doubts. So I'm signaling an amendment, and I'm handing it over to the marshal right now, hoping that everything relevant has been explained here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u371	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Well, thank you very much, senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister Paweł Jabłoński. Come on in, Minister. Or do you prefer it from the spot? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I prefer from the place, because very briefly, Mr. Marshal.]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u372	Indeed, as Senator Ujazdowski pointed out, I confirm that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participated in this work. And this amendment... I assume that this is precisely this amendment, which clarifies first and foremost the definition of the territorial scope. We have advocated, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to refer here to the Russian Treaty, but to the borders of 1 September 1939, and this is because of certain issues, even though the Treaty of Rick referred to in the original project did not define the course of our border with Lithuania. It is also added, as requested by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the local jurisdiction of the court, which in our assessment will cause that... the doubts that might arise without taking into account such property would be problematic. In this sound it is advisable. As for the very content of the bill as such, our position is indeed positive. The draft law is correct and indeed complements a certain lack of system, namely it allows people outside the territory of the Republic of Poland within these limits, as defined by the amendment tabled by the senator, to pursue justice. Thus, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is as positive as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u373	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u374	Yes, Mr. Marshal, traditionally. A question for the Minister. Maybe it's not about changing the scope of the bill, maybe there's no such person... How is it official that the borders of our country of 1 September 1939 also included areas occupied by the Czech Republic, taken over from the Czech Republic in 1938? How was it formal? Aren't we gonna start a little war here? Are these the official borders of Poland of 1 September 1939? That's the first line. And the second point, I would call it, of course. The wording on the Russian Treaty appears here twice, i.e. before change occurs twice. In both cases, do we change this, introduce the entry for the borders of 1 September 1939? I don't see this amendment, I just don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u375	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u376	As for the second point, I can honestly say that I do not have the exact content of the amendment in front of me at this point. I assume this is an amendment that changes the one that I received... [[Voice from the room: Already...]] This is an amendment to the Article. 1, Article 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) c... she refers to the mouth. 2. The first sentence is replaced by the following: 1 is also entitled to persons living in Poland or Poland at the time of their death within the limits of the Treaty of Rome... So originally, I guess, this recipe was. The text of the amendment, which was consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, indicates that it is people who live now either at the time of death in the Republic of Poland or on the territory of the Republic of Poland within the limits of 1 September 1939, outside the current territory of the Republic of Poland... Further to this provision, there is also no reference to the Russian Treaty. Unless you're asking for another recipe. [[Oh, yeah.]] If this one is, it is. As for the border issue with the Czech Republic, this issue in the assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is basically irrelevant. As far as we know, there were no persons in this area who would be covered by this law. Therefore, this issue is without practical meaning. We refer here to the limits which were in force and which were recognised. I don't think it's gonna be... From the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we do not see a potential problem in bilateral relations here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u377	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as far as the idea of the project is concerned, we are very much in favour, just as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... But I have a question. You had 2 doubts. The question of the Russian Treaty has already been clarified here, and the second question was... I quote here: in the circle of people entitled to claim benefits will be citizens of other countries, for example. Belarus, and the commemoration of their activities in favour of the independent existence of the Polish State in 1939 and 1946 may be the subject of various controversial interpretations, in particular by extreme groups operating in these countries. Therefore, the issue of payment of benefits provided for in the Foreign Nationals Act may be a matter of politicisation and, in extreme cases, may form the basis for criminal liability. If the Minister could address this issue... And we also have an opinion on this draft by the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy, who said that due to the lack of data on the number of persons entitled to claim compensation and redress on the basis of the proposed regulation, as well as on the amount of compensation awarded, which will result from the court's decision... Well, that's why he couldn't get a positive opinion on the bill. But do we have any analysis of how many such people, especially those outside the current borders of the Republic of Poland, could claim this compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u379	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! As far as the first point is concerned, I am indeed confirming that this case can be a source of different interpretations, especially in countries which are hostile towards the Republic of Poland or in which those who currently hold the real power are so directed towards Poland, and here we have actually pointed out an example of the regime in Belarus. At the same time, it must be pointed out that these potential problems arising from the obligation of nationals of other countries to remain faithful or loyal to their countries of nationality, in fact, would arise at a time when these people would in theory pursue their rights under this law. In fact, in every case of this kind, I think, a decision will have to be made by a person who potentially can claim his rights. It is our duty as a Polish country to provide this possibility and to provide all possible support and protection. If there is any situation in which a person who pursues his rights under this law would be exposed to any repression or even negative consequences, or we would find that there is such a systemic problem, then the Polish diplomatic services and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will certainly support such persons. On the second point, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not carry out such analyses. I do not know whether it was carried out by the Legislative Commission or by the authors of the project, but we do not have such analyses.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u381	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u382	Minister, it seems to me that the Zaolzia case in this law, if we accept this date on 1 September 1939, is more complicated. As far as I know, Polish citizens living in Zaolzie also died in Katyn, those who became Polish citizens after Zaolzia's occupation. So it's not like this bill, as far as Zaol is concerned, is unobtrusive. Can you comment on that? Because, of course, I'm not a specialist in Zaolzia, but because of my interest and education, I remember that this was the case. There was also scientific work, a popular science work raising that there were people from Zaolzia's territory who were in the Polish Army and died as a result of these activities, which were concentrated in 3 camps, because, of course, speaking of Katyn, I am only talking about a symbolic place. We need to be aware of that. That's it. Can you challenge what I'm saying or not? Have you considered this subject at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u383	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, this project is a senate project, that's where I'd like to start. I think it's worth keeping that in mind. We as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs give an opinion on the project that has been presented to us. As to the question you have asked, I am not fully aware of all the people who were in Zaolzia and how many of these people died in Katyn or in other similar crimes. The law that we are debating today is a law on amending the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against people being oppressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. Amending law as Article. 1 points out that its scope concerns judgments given by the Polish law enforcement and justice authorities or by out-of-court authorities from the start of their activities in Polish lands, from 1 January 1944 to 31 December 1989. We amend the article in this law. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which defines... [[Thank you, Minister. That means it doesn't include the period I was talking about.]] ...a demand for compensation or redress for judicial decisions. That's a little different. I'm not in a position to rule out 100 percent... There were different human fates and such situations could have happened, but in our view it is very, very unlikely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u385	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... Senator Ujazdowski. You're welcome. It's a rule-of-law request. I ask the senators who wish to speak in the discussion, to approach the secretary's senator and to sign up for the vote, because that is the custom. The question is asked by raising your hand, and the discussion is addressed to the Secretary himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u386	Very briefly. I just want to use the situation to make a formal request to move on to the third reading, and say that I take responsibility for this formulation. If it had happened that any of the entitled would have lived in Zaolzia's territory, it would have been an argument to use this phrase. Thank you very much. Please remember my request.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u387	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden and Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? Actually, I think...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u388	I am in favour of this proposal, and I have responded to it. I also agree with the statement in the discussion by Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u389	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u390	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Environment Committee, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration on the proposals submitted at second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Law, print No 286, will take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in the plenary room.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-17-senat-21-1.u391	Thank you very much. When's the break? [[Voice from the room: Until 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m.]] I'm declaring a recess until 9:30 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 30]]
