ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to devote my vote to the situation of domestic animals in Poland and address directly to President Kaczyński, who is a cat sympathizer... [[Voice from the room: Get out of the cave.]] ...accepts them, takes care of the legislation serving cats. But, Mr. President, there's a lot of fat cats around you lately who drink cream instead of milk... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...from the money of the Treasury companies. There are many of them - these are friends, children, families, husband of the Secretary of the Sejm today. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Mr. President, this needs to be cleaned up. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If you can't, we've declared... [[Your Marshal's sister.]] ...as the coalition of Poland at the beginning of the list of 400 people who are to be released. We're hoping today you'll step up the action of this servant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u2	Mr... [[Thieves, thieves!]] I'm sorry, sir, but, uh... [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] I suggest you think about what you're saying. [[Your Marshal's sister.]] And you, Mr President, have abused the procedure of the formal application. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a recess and a... [[Voice from the room: What is it? A gadget show?]] ...inquiry from Minister Niedzielski about vaccinations. Those 43% This is your... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[But there's the president's information...]] ...the number of sorrows and truths about how, where you have caused vaccinations in Poland today. You didn't do anything to get the Poles vaccinated, and instead of vaccination... [[And there's a black...?]] ...you're doing business for pandemics. [[Applause]] Minister Niedzielski should tell this speaker today what his plan is to protect us from... [[Friday, Friday, Mr. President.]] ...fourth wave. You'd rather party, you'd rather have an away club today and in the next days, and you wouldn't want to talk about pandemics and vaccinations. [[Applause]] 43%... [[But that's a lie.]] ...you didn't even make it halfway to 50%, and you scumbags say the Poles don't want to get vaccinated? You are not punishing members of your group who do not support vaccination. Mr... Shame and shame. This is your... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u4	Dear Mr... Mr Pierce, wait a minute. [[I'm waiting, I'm waiting, Marshal.]] Mr President, your club today reported information on the implementation of vaccinations, promotions among those who have not been vaccinated, present and future actions. So why the formal conclusion if the information is taken into account? [[You're gonna reject it, you're gonna reject it.]] No, you have information, sir. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? [[Voice from the hall: Talk to each other at the club and set up...]] This information is taken into account, but you filed a formal request for a break. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] We will therefore vote on this request for a break. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 239 - against, abstained 3. The motion's gone. I would like to remind you once again, Mr President, on this matter that you mentioned in your formal proposal, today is your information. Here you are, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition - a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for the adjournment of the Sejm. Marshal Witek said a few days ago: Here is Poland, not the Union. Shame and embarrassment. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Some Members hit the desktops and chant: Here is Poland! Here's Poland! Here's Poland!]] Such words match the chairman of the Russian Duma, not the marshals of the Polish Sejm. For breaking ties between Poland and the Union in the Kremlin, they probably already grind medals for you. Behind the mask of patriotism, you hide a pro-Russian face. High Izbo! PiS bombed Poland's future. [[Voice from the room: Russia.]] And that clock keeps ticking. Failure to comply with a ruling by the Court of Justice will cost us all very dearly. [[Some Members chant: Here is Poland! Here's Poland! Here's Poland!]] [[Marshal, what is this?]] If the PiS doesn't pay the penalty... [[Marshal, calm down.]] ...the money will be deducted from the funds that belong to us, the Poles and Poles, belong. [[Marshal, I don't hear anything.]] After the penalties will be cut from the rule of law mechanism, then polexit. Thank you, Member. You... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u6	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you very much, Commissioner, but I just wanted to draw your attention to one thing. [[You don't control the House, it's probably because...]] That's the kind of formula I had in my meeting. [[But it was a meeting, not a session of the Sejm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if... [[You have a duty to ensure that Members...]] Member, what's with the nerves? What's with the nerves? But what's with the nerves? In a moment's notice, just a moment. [[Allow Members to speak.]] [[Voice from the room: Request for cancellation in the evening.]] [[Voice from the room: Tonight, tonight.]] Is that it? Can we shut our emotions down now? Can we keep our emotions quiet? [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Shame on you, Marshal. This is a disgrace.]] What? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Next.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] A vote against that conclusion. You're welcome, Minister Czarnek. You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: Here is Poland, but there is a door.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal conclusion... [[Did you check how many people died after your visit to the hospital?]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] ...to collect formal proposals for prior verification from this point on, because the Polish Parliament is the place of the substantive debate, not the place for pranks. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Therefore, it is necessary to write first. That's my conclusion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u8	Thank you very much. As a formal request has been made for the adjournment of the sitting, I will put this request to the vote. [[Here's Poland.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: How many people died of COVID after your visit to the hospital in Lublin?]] [[To the ethics committee for talking like that.]] [[Voice from the room: Breaking the sharpening. This is the Minister of Education.]] Mr. President, why are you yelling at me like that? [[The only one who can go to...]] 446 Members voted. 204 for, 230... I haven't read the results yet. [[Voice from the room: Nerves are loose, I see.]] I'm asking for the results again because I didn't get a chance to read the results. [[But one thing's for sure, Mr. Czarnek is an expert.]] [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Next genius. They're all geniuses out there.]] I'm gonna need the results. [[Act like you're Members.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: We have to cancel, or we're gonna lose.]] [[Voice from the hall: You see, even the devices have broken since the vote.]] Madam, the results were displayed, and I did not have time to read and disappeared. Therefore, I ask you once again to give the results that have already been displayed. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: 238 - against, 204 - for.]] 446 Members voted. 204 - for, 238 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I think we had another motion. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to say that the Members of the opposition do not have such minimum labour standards provided by you... [[Voice from the room: Maseczek.]] ...and the freedom to express your opinion. [[Applause]] This situation here was a huge scandal just now. And you have no control over the pleural room - which I regret to say - only because the formal application concerned your speech. [[And are there such formal requests in the Rules of Procedure?]] [[That's right, the rules.]] By requesting a change in the way the discussion is conducted, I ask that the agenda of this Sejm be supplemented by information from the Prime Minister on why the European Commission suspended its work on the National Plan for Reconstruction last Friday. You are launching political crises in the international arena, including at European Union level, and two months ago you sent a document to the Commission full of substantive errors, a bubble that was simply not suitable for further investigation. As a result, 12 countries of the European Union already have money planted, 21 national recovery plans are approved... Thank you, Member. ...and ours hangs and we don't know when the citizens will get the money. Madam President, I will not put this proposal to the vote because we are not leading... We expect the Prime Minister's information in this regard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u10	Madam President, as we are not having any discussion at the moment, this is not a formal proposal that I can put to the vote. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to clarify that we are in Warsaw, in the Mazowieckie voivodship, in Poland and in the European Union, and we are in the European Union because you voted in favour of this, you ratified the Treaty of Lisbon. [[And you took money in the European Parliament.]] If Lech Kaczyński had not signed it, we would have been in the European Community and Community law would not have priority over Poland. You're the ones who brought us into the Union. [[Applause]] [[Give it up for Lech Kaczyński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u12	Thank you, sir. Of course, this was not a formal conclusion. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 10.30, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 11, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11... [[Game in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't split up, 'cause there's gonna be another vote in a minute. [[Voice from the room: Uh-huh.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Don't go anywhere. There's gonna be another vote. [[Why wasn't he together?]] Because it couldn't have been together, Member. There will be a report on the establishment of a deregulation committee. Only then can there be a vote. Everyone, please return to the O.R. There'll be another vote in a minute. - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - Economics and Development together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Culture and Media - hour 16, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 17. In addition, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - the Podlaskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Development of Rural and Municipal Housewives - h.m. 4:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u14	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation (Prints No. 1387 and 1408). I ask Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation, print No 1387. I'm sorry, but I just need to take it off, Marshal. [[Applause]] Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 8 July 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for first reading. Following the first reading and examination of the draft at its meeting on 20 July 2021, the Rules of Procedure and Members' Affairs shall be tabled by the High Sejm without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u16	Thank you. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of this draft resolution? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Yes.]] I'm opening a discussion. There you go, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert. Two minutes, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Print No 1387 refers to the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission. It reminds you, gentlemen, as you must know, of Janusz Palikot's establishment of a deregulation committee. In fact, it doesn't really differ, even in terms of content. [[They're copycats.]] [[A palicote.]] [[The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the ……]] Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Coalition Club will not vote against, but will abstain, because in the committee we did not really get information from you about what this committee is going to do. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 in point 3 there is a very wide range of issues to be addressed by this committee. Indeed, the State claimed that it should deal mainly with tax and economic matters, but these are very broad issues. Neither did the state tell us how many people this committee has to count and what its work is to look like. We therefore believe that we should abstain from voting on this committee, i.e. printing 1387. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u18	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. [[The voice from the hall: What about Marek Rutka, the marshal?]] Excuse me, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Left. [[Marcus, what left are you from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u19	Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! The more sick the country is, the more laws there are - Tacitus, the Roman senator. At yesterday's committee meeting, we had the opportunity to hear the rapporteur explain why we should set up an Extraordinary Commission. On the question of how many specific members the committee will count, we have not received an answer. [[Voice from the room: Terrible.]] We did not get an answer to the question about the duration of the committee's work. The only answer we received in the Sejm was to ask about the purpose of this committee. Interestingly, applicants did not hide that the Extraordinary Commission was set up in December 2007. Friendly country. It is worth remembering that this is a political project by Janusz Palikot. Abstracting from the political issues or the ideal lineage of the committee, it is absolutely necessary. Three fathers can be entered in the birth certificate. Even a teenager's mother is entitled to a breast-feeding break. These are just some of the legal absurdities that need to be improved. Urgent changes are needed in the provisions on donations, inheritances, trade bans, etc. Entrepreneurs are struggling not only with pandemics, but also with double taxation of limited companies, broken rules on invoices and receipts. The huge problem is to limit the help with the 6.0 shield. Over the last 20 years, there has been a gradual increase in the production of law in Poland. The production of law in Poland has never slowed down. It is regrettable that the quality of legislation has deteriorated significantly. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office is often not taken into account. Only 13% the laws which pass through the High House were adopted at the third reading. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. In conclusion, with all good intentions, one can say the devil's deregulation lies in the details. We didn't know those details at the committee meeting yesterday. Therefore, the Left Club will abstain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u20	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. I remind you that the clubs and the wheels were given two minutes to perform, so please stick to the time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would also like to express my view on behalf of the Polish Coalition on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Extraordinary Commission, a draft resolution which was drawn up at the request of a group of Members. At yesterday's sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Mr Wróblewski tried to explain to us the purpose of setting up this committee, but the substantive information about the purpose, about the scope of work, was indeed nothing. We have no confidence, no confidence in the purpose of this committee. You have a majority, at least you present it externally, so without our participation - we will abstain from voting - appoint this committee. Unfortunately, we suspect or are convinced that you want to use a number to carry out laws, important laws, not to carry this out in substantive parliamentary committees, under democratic conditions. The coalition of Poland will abstain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u22	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What do we need this bear for? Orwell had a ministry of truth, a ministry of abundance, and in the rule of law and justice we would already have a ministry of deregulation during the second term of office. No government, like this one, regulates the economy. But why did this committee come into being in the last term? Since the chairman of the economic committee was not a law and justice policy, a deregulation committee was set up to introduce draft laws that govern the economy to the committee that PiS controls. And so the deregulation committee in the last term came under the law: a pharmacy for a pharmacist who radically regulated the pharmacy market. [[Applause]] This is probably what you will be dealing with, and in this term of office, unfortunately, without the control of members of the free market group, the Confederation, a group which has been deregulation as one of its objectives. You have established quotas so that only a bunch of four Members will be included in this committee. Questions: What are the projects governing the economy in this term of office for the state to throw into this committee? What ideas will you come up with this time? These are open questions. I wish that this committee, unlike the previous term of office, had as little work as possible to make life miserable for entrepreneurs and citizens as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u24	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As Poland 2050, we do not fully understand why this committee is to be set up, since de facto deregulation of acts and simplification of law can be made in ordinary committees which are called to do so under normal control of the Sejm. There is therefore no reasonable reason to set up another extraordinary commission. In addition, this committee is undemocratic because, of course, the wheels have no representation in it. As Poland 2050, we will not be able to sit on this committee, to participate in its work in a full way. That is why I am asking especially people from the Civic Coalition - because I have heard that the Civic Coalition club wants to abstain from voting on this issue - do not give PiS a tool to spoil the law. You see how special they bring. [[Voice from the room: PiS take care of me.]] Poland 2050 will certainly not support the establishment of this committee on deregulation. I ask the opposition to reconsider their decision on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u26	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution... [[Questions.]] [[Voice from the hall: Sorry, I still signed up.]] But... [[Questions, yes.]] No questions, ladies and gentlemen. No questions. [[What do you mean, no questions? But we signed up. But how can you? Such an important thing, and you won't allow it?]] One minute, Member, on the question. One minute, Member. [[Now?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Maybe, Marshal...]] Just the two of you. Yes, please. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Voice from the hall: Why you and not me?]] I said both of you. That's it. Both of you, and I'm closing the list of speakers. Please, Member, one minute to ask. Come on in, ma'am. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, I would like to invite you. One minute to ask a question. [[Why not me?]] You, too, and I will close the list of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. Aren't you listening to what I'm saying? [[I signed up.]] But you don't listen to what I say. Start time? Hello! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is not a deregulation committee. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Is that a question?]] This is a country deregulated by the PiS. [[But you wanted to ask me a question.]] And you should get on with your normal work, start a normal discussion. In this case, we want to have a normal discussion... [[Voice from the room: hello, hello!]] ...that the Court's judgment, the TEU, would normally be prosecuted. [[Voice from the hall: Club appearances were already in place. Question, Member.]] If you have any decency... The point is that this committee should not pass laws on which we should proceed in a normal manner. Mrs. Marshal! If anyone in this room has any honor, it won't be... You haven't shown any mode to set this up, so you're gonna want to do everything there because you're gonna want to take everything under your shoe. And not in 24 hours, but in 12 hours. Thank you, Member. 67 days remain in the case of lex TVN. Thank you, Member. You're just trying to deregulate the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u28	Thank you, Member. Please, the last question will be asked by Mr Shopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u29	Dear Members and Members of the PiS! Wouldn't it be easier not to create a giant mass of empty jobs than to eliminate them now? The true puriazum in this law is point 3 in Article. 2. Read it to yourselves. Namely, you want to eliminate unclear, inconsistent, unnecessary and excessively regulating the lives of Poles there. [[That's the whole reform of the judiciary.]] Well, in my opinion, my constituents think you'd have to put an end to all your statutory work for the last six years. [[Applause]] Is that the intention of setting up this committee? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u30	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution contained in print No 1387, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 225 for, 39 against, 171 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission on deregulation. This is the end of the vote for now. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw (prints No. 1388 and 1407). We'll wait a moment so that the country that doesn't take part in this part of the room can get out of the room quietly. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. Royal in Warsaw, prints no. 1388 and no. 1407. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 8 July 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for First Reading. The Committee on Culture and Media of the Republic of Poland, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 20 July 2021, brings it to the High Sejm of the Republic of Poland to approve the attached draft law. During the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, we heard information about the bill presented by the Minister, the representative of the President. During the discussion, the Minister, the General Monument Preserver, also the Deputy President of the City of Warsaw, representatives of the Saski Association 2018. There were also representatives of the Office of the Programme, as well as representatives of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship and Members - members of the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as from outside the committee - who asked many questions. There has been a few hours of discussion about this project, which has aroused the keen interest of ladies and gentlemen. During the discussion a number of themes were discussed, including: The idea of a special act and the participation of the city of Warsaw in this project were referred to. Because for several decades there has been no reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. Royal in Warsaw, the committee decided that this law was necessary in order to restore these very important buildings for the city of Warsaw and for Poland. The discussion also raised the question of the need to intervene in a section of the Saski Park greenery. Here the argument is that on the one hand actually, in order to be able to rebuild all the houses on the street. As well as the Brühl Palace, there is a need for some interference in greenery, but with the current possibilities it is not a problem to move, to overstep some trees, as well as new plantings, or to establish new green fragments. Many times there was also a thread in the discussion concerning the habit of the present shape of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. However, it was argued that the tomb of the Unknown Soldier was created in the period of the independent Second Republic of Poland and was as much within the appearance of the entire Saski Palace at that time. He referred to the struggle for Poland's independence during the First World War and the Polish-Bolshevik War and other fights of the period of regaining independence - this tradition will be established in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace and the context of the Unknown Soldier's tomb will be fully restored. The subject matter of the special purpose vehicle and the remuneration associated with it were also raised, but by comparison it was considered that these earnings, even if they reached the upper limit, would not be higher than in some municipal companies. Communication issues were also raised. The reference is that they are planned, among others. underground parking lots, so that it is possible to provide efficient communication solutions. It is also important that after the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. It will also be possible to move the seat of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship here. In turn, there will be more room for the president of the city. Warsaw, so it will take place for the benefit of both parties. During the detailed work on the Law, to which we went after a few hours of general debate, one major amendment was introduced: the Council of Reconstruction was strengthened. The Council is to be chaired by a representative of the President of the Republic of Poland, a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, two representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, representatives of the Minister of National Defence, the President of the Republic of Poland. Warsaw and the general conservator of monuments. We have also added a representative of the City Council of Warsaw and - what is important in the context of the place where we are and where we are sitting - a representative of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The work took many hours, some Members had to go late to meetings of other committees, so attendance at the end of the meeting was a little less. In the final vote, 12 votes in favour, with two votes against and four abstentions, the Committee on Culture and Media recommended that the High House adopt this law. It is worth adding some historical themes about the idea of rebuilding the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. Royal. First of all, it is the completion of the reconstruction of the most important buildings, buildings of Warsaw which were methodically demolished, plannedly and fiercely by the German occupier. This reconstruction has been proposed since 1946, so it is high time to take up this task. It will also recreate an important part of the large-scale urban concept of this part of the capital, called Axis Saska, the closure of the square of Marshal Józef Piłsudski - these buildings will complete this square. The important thing is that the Saski Palace was the headquarters of the General Staff and later of the Polish Army General Staff in the period of the independent Second Republic. Here he played Polish Army already in 1918 General Tadeusz Jordan Rozwadowski, later among others. among the chiefs of chief of staff was Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Also here there was a branch of the Second Polish Army Staff, Polish intelligence, here during the war against the Bolsheviks por. drip. Jan Kowalewski broke with his collaborators, outstanding Polish mathematicians: Sierpiński, Mazurkiewicz, Leśniewski, Bolshevik ciphers. This is where Marian Rejewski, Henryk Zygalski, Jerzy Różycki, Antoni Palluth later broke Enigma codes. In turn the Brühl Palace was the seat of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the second period of the Republic of Poland. These buildings witnessed the creation, reconstruction and development of the independent Second Republic of Poland. It is also worth reminding that the beginnings of these buildings are half of the 17th century, still years of greatness of the First Republic. The beginnings of the Saski Palace are the court of Jan Andrzej Morsztyn. Later, at the beginning of the 19th century - very important - Frederick Chopin lived there. There is also an idea to remind in these objects, which are also supposed to be places of action of cultural institutions, Maria Skłodowska-Curie. In turn, the beginnings of the Brühl Palace are the 1940s. 17th century - is the palace of chancellor, Marshal of the Sejm and Sandomierz voivode of Jerzy Ossoliński, one of the most important Polish politicians of the 17th century, and even before the war tragedy of the middle of this century, still from the period of the greatest greatness of the Republic. Restoration of the Saski Palace, Brühl Palace and tenements at ul. The Royal is in line with the 2018 recommendation of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee and, as we heard yesterday at the committee meeting, with the doctrine of spatial order m.st. Warsaw. The reconstruction of these buildings will be a symbol of the vitality of the Polish spirit, a sign of identity based on history, culture, care for the Polish cultural heritage, contrary to the conquerors and against the invaders. The Germans destroyed these objects - methodically and fiercely - and the communists did not want to rebuild them. I think the independent Republic has a duty to do so. Thank you very much to the President of the Republic of Poland for this initiative, thank you to all those who worked at the committee meeting on this project, both to all the ladies and gentlemen and to all the guests invited to the committee meeting. Once again, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I would like to ask the High Sejm to approve this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I rarely comment on anything from this place, but if you say that the communists didn't want to rebuild something, you should also say on one exhale that they rebuilt, for example. Royal Castle in Warsaw. [[But a few dozen years...]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] At least that'll be fair. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Marshal Margaret Gosiewska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u33	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the Royal tenement, introduced by President Andrzej Duda, meets the long-awaited decision to restore the historical form of representative space en. Marshal of Piłsudski, business cards of pre-war Warsaw. The author of the idea was sleep. Lech Kaczyński, who in 2006 when signing contracts for two investments, for the construction of the Saski Palace and the revitalization of Krakowskie Przedmieście, said that the decision to restore the former glow to the Saski Palace was one of the most important that he took as President of Warsaw. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, our capital was not interested in carrying out this project. The Saski Palace was the heart of Warsaw, the heart of Poland, which in an exceptionally barbaric way was destroyed. I will remind you that not as a result of the war, not during the Warsaw Uprising, but it was demolished after the fall of the Uprising in December 1944 as part of the systematic and planned operation of the destruction of Warsaw by the German occupier. Thus, High Izbo, the reconstruction of the Saski Palace has a dimension not only symbolic but also national and identityal. Saski Palace is one of the symbols of pre-war Warsaw and the Second Republic of Poland. It was before him that the most important celebrations and events that gathered crowds of Warsawians, crowds of Poles took place. Before World War II, the Saski Palace was the seat of the General Staff and later of the Polish Army General Staff. In 1925 the tomb of the Unknown Soldier was also unveiled there. It's the only piece that survived. The history has already been discussed by the chairman of the committee, and I will not repeat it, but I would like to dispel a few myths about the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. And so myth one: rebuilding the palace is a huge cost. Currently, the investment cost is estimated at about PLN 2450 million. It should be noted that apart from the palace itself, the whole western string of buildings at the pl. Piłsudskiego, including a tenement on ul. The Royal Palace, as well as the Brühl Palace. However, this should be applied to the scale of the annual budget of the M.S. Warsaw, which for 2021 amounts to PLN 20.5 billion. Warsaw itself makes much bigger and more expensive investments. In comparison, the second metro line is over 4 billion, the North Bridge route - over 1 billion, the Copernicus Science Centre - over 360 million, the Museum of the History of Polish Jews - over 300 million. This year in the budget m.st. Warsaw has 90 million for the construction of the Museum of Modern Art. There are also controversial expenditures of the city office, such as rentals, which the press recently writes about, for PLN 100 million of a skyscraper in the centre of Warsaw. Myth two: cellars in the heritage register. Yes, the basements of the Saski Palace are entered in the register of monuments, but this is not an obstacle to the reconstruction of the buildings of the western feathers. Marshal Piłsudski. My third myth: the reconstruction will destroy the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Not at all. The tomb of the Unknown Soldier will remain, will have the character and will perform its function. For this will be restored the prewar appearance of the monument. Myth four: no way to build an underground parking lot. The entry in the register of monuments of parts of the cellars under the Saski Palace is not an obstacle to the construction of underground parking. The authorisation and the opinions obtained in the course of the administrative arrangements clearly indicated that the fact that some of the cellars are subject to conservation protection does not conflict with the construction of the underground parking lot. It is also worth to refer to the opinion of Poles, High Izbo. 5 days ago, in a published survey, a vast majority of the respondents advocated rebuilding the Saski Palace. Ladies and gentlemen! After the war, poor Warsaw rebuilt the Old Town and part of the Royal Route. The Royal Castle was rebuilt in the Polish People's Republic - yes, Mr. Marshal, and the heart of Warsaw has been waiting almost 80 years to be resurrected. It wasn't until 2004. Lech Kaczyński initiated its reconstruction. Our group supports this project. The President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński on 3 July at the convention assured about the reconstruction of the Saski Palace in Warsaw. This investment also found a symbolic place in the government project of Poland Lad. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to quote Stanisław Lorentz, art historian, legendary director of the National Museum in Warsaw, who during the war deserved in the action of saving Polish cultural goods and the most valuable monuments: "This is the history of Poland: we are building and collecting, storming and robbing us, rebuilding and collecting again, storming and stealing again," and our national duty is always to rebuild and collect again, otherwise we will cease to exist. I would also like to make an amendment on behalf of the club. You're welcome, Marshal. Thank you, and I'm sorry for your time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u34	Thank you, Marshal. Now I invite Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, who represents, as we all know, the Civic Coalition Club. Your marshal, dear Margaret, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a big problem with this bill. Indeed, her title is beautiful. We all want the monuments, the buildings of our past to be reconstructed and enjoy our sights. Why are we doing this with a specialty? [[Voice from the room: Because for so many years...]] Why are we doing this by means of a specialty, which really excludes the participation of the Warsaw government, the inhabitants of Warsaw? [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] This excludes cooperation with many people, for whom this idea is very important. Because people, Poles want these buildings to be rebuilt. All the tests confirm that. Poles want it, but why do it? Is it with a specialty? This will ensure that in the case of the entire Piłsudski Square together with the new buildings will be guaranteed in the act that nothing can be done there ever again. It is as if to impose on Warsaw that this place is under special supervision and nothing can be done there anymore, it cannot be consulted with urbanists, architects, Warsawians, it cannot be discussed with art conservationists. The specialty mode is very dangerous. In fact, it limits cooperation with the city, with the Warsaw people. If we want to do something positive, we have to do it together, not next door. It's very dangerous. Second, costs. I agree that this investment in Warsaw should be created, but 2 billion PLN in this at the moment huge money in terms of the budget of our country. We know that there aren't a lot of important things, and we know that this money is getting less and less. If now the penalty that the Polish state will have to pay is reached, this money will be even less. Besides, as Warsawers, we have little trust. when it comes to the fact that the palace will be our part in Warsaw. After all, we remember what happened to the Southern Hospital, which was taken from Warsaw. After all, it's our common thing that suddenly decided the voivodship was taken. If cooperation is not guaranteed, if it cannot be done together... It raises a lot of doubts about me. This is particularly about the money that is needed for other very important purposes at the moment. There's also a third case that worries me very much. I even talked to the Minister about it. This is about the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, which we have known in this shape for many years - far longer than the old monument - which has been embedded in our consciousness, our memory. This is where the most important events of the last 30 years in our country took place. This monument is one of the most beautiful monuments, the most beautiful grave of an unknown soldier. The very form of the monument has undergone metamorphosis during and after the war. The void around this grave, the feathers and the view of the green behind really make a great impression. I know that the monumental building will also be impressive, but will we not destroy something that is already a value, a symbol of our country, our identity and a sacred thing for Poles when we think about rebuilding in such a form? I have a lot of doubts. I would like for such important matters to work together, to work together. This is an example of the fact that by means of a specialty you try to build national symbols and our identity. No special is good. Spectaw imposes solutions without discussion, without consultation, without discussion. That's why I'm making amendments on behalf of my club. I hope that they will allow us to think together about the work and work of all the people of our country, the Warsaw people, that the discussion will be taken into account, that this will not be done by means of a specialty. The law imposed concerns a really important thing and changes Warsaw. Warsaw has changed a lot over the last few years. It is no longer possible to return to the city arrangement that was before the war, because even in this part of Warsaw it looks different. That is why it is so important to work together with architects, urbanists, people who will seek a new form to use these buildings if they arise in the future. Today, guaranteeing that kind of money... We know very well that it will not be PLN 2 billion, because investment prices go crazy up, everything is more expensive, and our experience says that the state unfortunately makes investments in such a way that it may take many, many years and we may not even live to see the end of this construction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u36	Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal, for the corrections. Here you are, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u37	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Right-wing politicians say that the reconstruction of the Saski Palace is supposed to be a restoration of the symbol's place, where Polish independence was strengthened and Polish statehood was built. And while you are talking about values that are also close to the Polish left, we cannot agree with you because by rebuilding the Saski Palace, you will destroy this existing and so important symbol for all Poles and Poles. For decades, the tomb of the Unknown Soldier has reminded us of our tragic history, the victims of war and occupation, the heroic struggle of our soldiers on all fronts of Europe, the violence, the crimes, the city ruined by the fascist invaders, the fall of the Polish state, the defeat of the uprising, the shed blood. That's what this piece of ruin tells us, a small fragment of a demolished, beautiful former building. That's what the absence of the Saski Palace tells us. It's all part of it. Us. He lives in our culture, in the memories of our families passed down from generation to generation. And you can't reverse the course of history. There's no way to make amends. The victims cannot be restored to life, and the destroyed Warsaw cannot be restored to its former shape. The rebuilt Saski Palace will not be any symbol, because symbols are not created by means of laws or bricks and concrete. This great and extremely expensive building will paradoxically destroy the symbolic significance of the Unknown Soldier's Tomb, removing it into the shadows. And do you really want to do that? But that's not all. In connection with this project it was forgotten to ask the opinion of residents and residents of Warsaw. And without asking their opinion in the heart of their city, the authorities decided to build themselves a monument of their own pride. It is worth reminding here that the plan is to reconstruct the entire architectural complex. This will permanently change the shape of a large part of the city. A large part of the beautiful Saski Garden will be destroyed. Trees and shrubs will be cut out. In order to build planned underground parking lots, archaeological sites located under the square may be breached. And here's a quote: The problem of forming the western feathers of the square was raised by generations of conservators and architects. While the reconstruction of the destroyed buildings, still a fresh wound in the middle of the ruined city, was actually considered just after the war, as the reconstruction of the Old and New Town, Krakow Przedmieście or the New World progressed, the need to rebuild the palaces at en. Piłsudski was a pain in the ass. It is a fragment of an open letter from the PlacPilsudski Initiative2021, under which architects, urbanists, art historians, people of culture and art signed. They protest against this ridiculous reconstruction. And you don't listen to them. It is worth mentioning the absurdities we will find in this bill. In order to rebuild the monument, the investment will be carried out without the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, disregarding the guidelines and conservation permits. Part of the provisions of the Construction Law, the Law on Revitalization and the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning will not apply. For the purposes of this investment, you put Polish law on the shelf. It is also worth mentioning the enormous costs of rebuilding the Saski Palace. The total cost of the planned projects is estimated to be 2 453 230 000 over 10 years. zł. And by the time the first shovel gets stuck, a lot of people are gonna be making giant money on it. We don't know the payroll here, but we certainly know who won't be on it. There will be no nurse on it, there will be no judicial staff, there will be no officials, there will be no social security workers IRS, babysitters or social workers. In addition, at the start there will still be unique and devastating monuments throughout Poland: manor houses, cemeteries, houses and palaces. This planned amount would be sufficient for renovation, as it is estimated, about 1 000. of them. And it would have more to do with taking care of the Polish heritage and history than building paradisaic copies of buildings that have not existed in a long time. The Left will not support this bill. We also make amendments to this reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u38	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Jarosław Rzepa, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u39	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I think, just like we're sitting in this courtroom today, we spoke at the committee meeting yesterday. Probably many of us are very positive about this subject, but many words that have come out today make us have different kinds of doubts, including formal doubts about the whole investment process. Unfortunately, I have to agree with you, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, about the way you choose. The formula of the specialization here practically means the exclusion of the city in which this investment is to take place, and the transfer of the whole to the office of the voivodship and central authorities. This is not a good practice, ladies and gentlemen. We also talked about costs here. Today it is planned, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be PLN 2400 million, but you are well aware that this amount is already unrealistic today. We see what is happening today on many fronts when it comes to construction: whether it's highway or residential. Ladies and gentlemen, inflation in this area gallops. He's not coming, he's galloping. There are areas where prices increase by up to 100%. You are well aware of that. This will make this investment not worth PLN 2.5 billion. It would be good if its cost could fit into 5 billion PLN. If we look at PLN 5 billion, Minister... Here I would like to thank you for the fact that every year there is more money for monuments, but I would like to say, Minister: if we could spend this money on these monuments that are calling for help today... Let's hope it's not so, ladies and gentlemen, that some of us won't see it coming. How are we gonna feel if we don't pick up some of the ruins? And they are. Besides, the minister and I talked about manor houses, palaces or historic garden spaces in the Western Pomerania. It is also, ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility, and it is not only for those who used to create it, but also for Poland today. Your Marshal spoke about this recently on Lubuskie soil, but I think that this empathy towards Western Poland, when it comes to rebuilding monuments and taking care of them, is lacking, Minister. If we looked at the annual tables, we would see that the western wall, however, is a little bit treated by the stepmother. In the course of yesterday's discussion, we also discussed the remunerations of the board members and presented our concern for public money. We don't have to give maximum money. We offered four times, ladies and gentlemen, and you didn't want to hear it. We have a reasonable conviction that this is a little cashier's fee, ladies and gentlemen. I wish there was such a reflection. These people have to make good money because their mistakes are going to cost a lot, and the Minister knows it. But that doesn't mean we don't have to respect that money. That is why our club, in support of the topic at all, the idea of reconstruction, is that today we will rebuild something that is not there, but at this moment and in view of all the arguments I have put forward, today it will stop in this vote. He's gonna hold off because, like I said, we have a different approach to the subject. And let's hope it's not that what we're doing and what should serve people first... Many things, ladies and gentlemen, many of the words that have been said, I have the impression, make us feel, however, that we are not entirely convinced that this will be the case with these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something to spend money on, we can reflect on, and one day we can return to this subject when we all agree on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier from the Confederate circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u41	A hundred thousand for a monument, I would have laid twice to Stanisław's fossil, and John III came to life - this is an anonymous frash from the 18th century, when our last king Stanisław August Poniatowski was focusing on lunches for beautiful people and monuments. As you can see, things haven't changed much since then. We'll get 2 billion unspecial monuments, to be honest, beauty, instead of the deep reforms we need. And I would, to be honest, put Vateus to fossilize twice and John III to life. This government is rightly referred to as the Sanctuary Reconstructive Group, and indeed, once again, we have proof that you want it to be like before the war. Although it is not the worst thing you could do to rebuild a few monuments. But it's not about the monument. The monument is just another teddy bear with which many pockets will be filled to the brim. It's already in the article. 3 we have a real goal: to set up a special purpose vehicle. I've got a proposition for you. Why don't you finish whatever you want and solve some special purpose company you set up, do this dig, I don't know, finish the highways that were supposed to be ready for Euro 2012, that kind of thing, because if it goes on like this, you're gonna miss out in the nearest families of specialists with the right qualifications or special situation of life. But why do we even need this bill? The reason for this is explained in an open text: "The construction of the western field of Marshal Józef Piłsudski's Square in Warsaw, based on existing legislation, does not guarantee an efficient and effective completion of the law (...)." Let's hear it for honesty. The experience so far shows that without the use of specific regulation, which primarily allows for the concentration of complex administrative and factual effects in a single decision, it is not possible to efficiently and efficiently implement investments that are essential for the State (...). If I knew that I was in charge of a country in which experience showed that there was nothing that could be built on the basis of existing regulations, I would not, damn it, take up the bill on the construction of a monument or a monument, I would not become a palace, but I would urgently change the law that creates such a pathology that nothing could be built effectively. And yet, since you've built such a sick bureaucratic building, since you've created this law all these years, and you're not going to let it go, but every second meeting you're still adjusting, you're putting it in the oven, you're cutting our chain, you're putting on new shackles, now go on the cross road you've designed for others. Now eat that frog you cooked for the nation. Do not avoid what you require of others. Eat this frog and pat yourselves on the stomach, and lick so I can see you're enjoying it. [[Applause]] [[Oh, my gosh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u42	Uh-oh. [[We'll fucking believe it.]] Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reconstruction of the Saski Palace raises many discussions. In our opinion, it should be decided primarily by the inhabitants of Warsaw. And that's not what this speech's about at all. The draft act presented to the Sejm, because we are discussing it here, is intended to enable this reconstruction, but surprises and amazes even the most experienced legislators. This is because instead of the law we have legalization of holes in the law, instead of a specialty - anti-law. How can one call annihilation by one movement of large areas of the Construction Law, conservation supervision, the right of self-government to agree, property rights - in the case of unregulated property, rules of spatial planning, public procurement law and social participation, and all at once? We're used to patching up your procedures with special laws. We have accepted them for the rapid achievement of important social goals: motorways, Euro facilities, airports and high-voltage lines. But there is no rush here, and there is no coercion, because the Warsaw authorities are looking favorably at this project and have already issued the conditions of construction for the Saski Palace and all the objects planned in its surroundings. However, this presidential project would like to eliminate completely the influence of local governments and residents on such an important investment. It is a special act in which, in fact, the key constitutional solution of the state is repealed without any understandable social purpose, as should be done in the specialty, but only the will of political power. This puts her in one line with such acts demolishing the Polish legal system as the first version of the lex developer, the shale special act of 2014, it was there on the other side of the room, and a very long time ago the Helsinki Act of 2002, which was fully challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal. Probably, if the subject we're working on went to the tribunal, he'd be treated the same way. The words of Mr Suski, who said that this law could be a prelude to simplifying procedures too difficult in Poland, were terrifying at the committee meeting. So the whole law is too difficult, according to Mr Suski. I will be mercifully silent about the tactfulness of putting the palace of power in times of epidemic, when honest working people fight for every next day, but I cannot ignore the fact that the bill will create a special purpose company to reduce investment costs for, bagatela, 2 billion PLN. But it won't, because there's a generous salary for board members, five times the average monthly salary according to the CUS for new fat cats. It's a new son-of-a-knock mine filled with a party key. The money will be released without embarrassment by applying the Public Procurement Law, no procedures, as will the CPK will be spent millions of zlotys on posts, visualizations, opinions and arrangements. And it's gonna be like Jack Sasin's envelope election. The taxpayers' money will be thrown into the mud. With all due respect to the government, this astronomical amount could be built at least by a new building of the National Library, which is now in a deplorable state. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 cannot agree to the reconstruction mode of the Saski Palace, in which the will and voice of the inhabitants of Warsaw are ignored, excludes the local government, for no reason violates general legal norms, and public money is completely out of control. This investment could be an example of agreement over divisions, and will unfortunately become a symbol of violence of power and the destruction of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u44	Thank you, madam. I invite Mr Zbigniew Girzyński. I would like to inform you that Mr Girzyński has an appropriate medical certificate so that he does not wear a mask. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On this one page is the Act of the Legislative Sejm of 1922 on the construction of the port in Gdynia. It has six articles and the website only takes up because several high-ranking officials are signed under it. On the basis of such a brief and transparently written bill, a powerful port could be built, which is still the pride of our country. The bill that you have submitted to the President, which we will support because of the substance of the issue, but which we fundamentally disagree with when it comes to its records, has 40 pages and a second so many reasons. That's reflection one. For years, many environments have sought to rebuild the Saski Palace. Despite these appeals, a unique opportunity was wasted to reconstruct this symbolic building for the history of our capital in connection with the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. The present trial, although delayed, is a step in the right direction, should, however, prompt us to reflect more on how this place, which is worth recalling, has also been the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier since 1925 to give an even more symbolic character. Please consider this statement as an appeal for this type of reflection, which may be a symbolic closure until today of a bleeding wound, which, as a result of the tragic events of 10 April 2010, unnecessarily divides our society. For years now, when I look at the lonely piece of the former Saski Palace in Piłsudski's empty square, once a grave of an unknown soldier, I also see the words of a prominent historian in front of my eyes. I mean the character of Jerzy Lojek and the words of his will, which fell into my memory and into my heart, when many years ago I first reached for the book that he wrote and published in the second circulation of Katyn. The father of our outstanding historian Leopold Łojek, doctor of medical sciences and major of the Polish Army, was murdered in early April 1940 in Katyn. In his will, Jerzy Lojek, who last saw his father when he was 7 years old, wrote: "I ask all my loved ones to always and consistently raise the matter of Katyn's crime publicly and demand that it be punished." And then he wrote: "It is necessary to demand the exhumation of all the victims, the transportation of remains to Poland, their reverence at a special cemetery in Warsaw and the construction of a memorial basilica there, where the circumstances of the crime would be revealed openly, otherwise than in a cowardly and opportunistic monument in western London, and all the names of the dead would be engraved on the interior walls of the temple. Jerzy Łojek even offered to pay for it with a royalty from his books. Jerzy Łojek's project of commemorating Katyn's crime is so extensive that it will never happen. However, I believe that when our capital of the state finally comes to a real and not only occasional reconstruction of the Saski Palace, which will make the tomb of the Unknown Soldier become known to us before the war, alongside the ashes of Orleans Lviv, a soldier fighting for our independence in 1918 and 1920, should rest there the ashes of one of the nameless soldiers murdered in Katyn's crime. In a similar way, Americans worship an unknown soldier in their graves at the Arlington National Cemetery... Mr President, we are finishing slowly. I'm almost done, Marshal. ...his veterans who died not only in World War I, but also in World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. Today I present this proposal to everyone in public as a reflection and I ask for a concept, because it is not about rebuilding something, but it is also about doing something important for future generations and thanking everyone who fought for Poland during different periods of our history. Thank you very much. Sorry to extend your time, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u46	Forgive me, no problem. Ladies and gentlemen, 53 people have come forward to ask questions. So I'm closing the list. [[I'm still here, Mr. Marshal. May I?]] You can, of course. 54 people volunteered to ask questions. So I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. I invite Mr Paul Hreniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u47	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The reconstruction of the Saski Palace is a magnificent monument of historical continuity, our identity, the construction of a community, so I read with some concern that Warsaw's capital city for the implementation of this investment will give away a small part that is needed for the construction of this palace, but it involves compensation. It seems that this palace, this complex will serve primarily the inhabitants of Warsaw... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Well, he won't be.]] ...beautier, enriching our extraordinary capital, which is an incredibly beautiful city. Therefore, I wanted to ask the Ministry whether Warsaw's capital city will in any way at least symbolically participate financially in the implementation of this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u48	Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There's been some confusion. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'm getting a list from you, so I read it one by one, just like it says here. Is there any way to explain it so that we don't get emotional and just help each other? I have Mr Tomasz Głogowski here right now. Is that correct? [[Mr Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska: The first was Mr Szczerba's written down, and I wrote him down first, then myself.]] Excuse me, wait a minute, misunderstandings happen. May I have your explanations, please? [[Mr Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska: Mr Szczerba should now be the first.]] No, not your messenger. [[Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska: I stood here 10 minutes before the beginning of the meeting. And the fellow Member was the third, he stood behind me and we signed up as...]] Not you, Gosia, just the countries that are sitting there. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanation is as follows. Because 51 people came forward, the principle of sequence was maintained, i.e. people were divided according to the size of clubs, as is done with excessive numbers of people. That is why you were the first member of the PiS. At the moment, you are the second member of the Civic Platform. As far as the Member of the Civic Platform is concerned, I am speaking to my friend Mr Szczerba, Mr Głogowski just asked me to put him in the beginning, because he has a committee. If that doesn't suit you, go ahead, Mr. Honourable, come on in. Can you communicate with each other? [[Voice from the room: Excuse me...]] Is that okay? Good. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Please. I have a request for you to set it up with your friends at the club, so there won't be any misunderstandings afterwards. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u49	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Rebuilding monuments, national heritage and taking care of them is important. On the other hand, in this point I would like to raise the issue of the architectural values of this palace and ask you a question: Will the Saski Palace in this form, which we know from photographs, rebuilt here, make it the surroundings of Warsaw, Piłsudski Square look nicer or worse? The Saski Palace was only the seat of Polish kings for several decades during August II the Strong, August III Sasa, and the appearance we know from the photographs was obtained at the time when it was owned by Ivan Squartov, a Russian merchant and a builder. My concern is also due to whether after this reconstruction the tomb of the Unknown Soldier will not lose its value, which it now has, when it reminds us of German barbarism, Soviet barbarism, the Red Army, which was waiting for the destruction of Warsaw. If we rebuild the Saski Palace, will we not lose this unique character of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska. You're welcome, Mrs. Left Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say right away that I'm not a German faction, so there's no doubt, because I've heard those words recently, not even with myself, but with people like that. So no, I'm not from the German faction. I'm getting to the point quickly. I can refer to those words that have already died here, because very often, passing the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, I saw groups of tourists, Polish and foreign, with whom there were guides and to whom I listened - the story of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. This is a special place in just such a formula as it is right now, because this is our tragic history and I am not entirely convinced that the way it happened, the special mode of reconstruction of the Saski Palace and other buildings is really needed. I think - and from the point of view of Warsaw and, for example, Western Poland, as was also mentioned - about the old Prague, as I think of small houses... I spoke to the capital monument conservator once, who said that resources were needed - they are promised, but they still are not - from the Ministry of Culture, from the voivodship monument conservator, e.g. to rebuild, simply to bring to decency a tiny cottage that is in Wilanów, and they are watching it, not this year, because there is still a pandemic, thousands of tourists from abroad. It's a shame for us, that's what we have to deal with. I'm not talking about 100 Prague tenement houses anymore. And I also mention to you... [[Time.]] ...western Poland, especially about Lower Silesia, because my heart breaks, as I see what is happening there, and how much work and resources are really needed there from the state budget to change all this. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Therefore, my doubts are really very large as to the very essence of reconstruction in such a form, because we do not know how it will work in the future for the city, for the inhabitants, what the consequences will be. Actually, my question is very technical: Will there be supervision of the capital monument conservator? After all, the existing rules show that this is the way it should be. [[No, it won't. This is a special act.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Someone has to... Yeah, that's right. Miss, Miss... That's a provocative question. I'm worried it's gonna be a special act. Unfortunately, I'm worried. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[2.5 billion.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a club performance?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is true that Mrs Margaret Szmajdzińska spoke two minutes longer. I'm sorry about that. If anyone prolongs, I won't interrupt. Here you go, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the history of art is the concept of the durability of the monument in mentality, in the consciousness of those who see it, who have met it. The Saska Palace for my generation, but actually also for most or everyone present in this room, is in this formula we know, which is the grave of the Unknown Soldier. In fact, the question is first of all about the sense of rebuilding this palace at this moment, but also the entire quarters from a scientific, conservation point of view. That's one question. What's the point? Two: On what basis was the estimate drawn up? 2.5 billion PLN. We hear there's probably a special company to be set up... [[Yeah, on purpose.]] ...which will build or rebuild the palace as well as the rest of these buildings. So again, there's more places for fat cats to have positions for their own companies, the companies that will be responsible for this reconstruction. So another money that goes to a goal that's totally not meant to rebuild monuments. And there are other monuments in the region, including mine, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, which must be rebuilt: churches, historic granaries, many tenements and palaces. Maybe it's better to spend money on it, Prime Minister, not to rebuild something that doesn't really make any Pole happy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u55	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Glinski isn't here. It shows that Prime Minister Gliński, the government, in fact does not want to talk, does not want to listen to questions, does not want to answer these questions. I assume that the Prime Minister will come here later, give a propaganda message, what a great task this is, and how important it is for the government. Unfortunately, however, there is a need for some feedback, some thinking, some thinking, some thinking about this investment. I want to refer here to the letter of open architects, historians, who point to the great value of the present form of Piłsudski Square together with the garden of Saski, the form that commemorates the tragic events of World War II. These symbols are important in the history of each country. Piłsudski Square is a symbol of the bloody sacrifice of the nation (the bell), the destruction that was done during World War II, the ruin that met our entire capital. Mr. Prime Minister, who is not here, I wanted to ask how the government is referring precisely to the fact that this construction will build the symbol of the victim that Poland suffered during World War II. Is that moral, Prime Minister? I'd like you to come in and answer that question, even though you've escaped from the gym, and he didn't want to talk about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Zalewski, Member of the Independent Committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Messengers and Members! The basic question is: Does a government that does not cope with the biggest tragedy in Poland after 1989, or pandemic, have a moral title to use its energy in other areas? But I want to leave this on the side, because you have the majority, this is your project, you think so. I am in favour of the reconstruction of the Saski Palace and Brühl Palace, because these are extremely important places for Polish history. I'm not talking about the fact that it was the General Staff, that it was the prewar MFA (the bell), but today it's the grave of the Unknown Soldier. And this is the moment you could use to build a community. Such a small fragment, when we share everywhere, and you show that in this most important, most sacred place for every Pole, where lies an unknown soldier, a symbol of our resistance and independence, you are in favour of finding a community. But she doesn't need a specialty. She requires a certain path, consultation and cooperation. Consultation and cooperation with the city, which is ruled by opposition groups against you on a national scale - but this is a great time to show that we are together - as well as with environments that have a lot of doubts about how this law should be carried out. Instead of using this sacred fragment of the Republic to build a community, you propose to impose certain solutions. But there's time, there's time. I turn to you, colleagues from the PiS club, with an appeal: go back to looking for those places that connect, especially in this most sacred place in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by reminding you that this is a presidential project. Thank you very much, Mr President, for leaning on this important thing. The next important thing I would like to say to the High House is that after many years of debate, the Germans have set the amount of EUR 660, 680 million and rebuilt the castle of Prussian kings. I see nothing terrible here that we want to rebuild something that is a symbol of statehood, a symbol of tradition and a symbol of martyrdom of the Polish people. This is a very important place. All the more important it would be to lean on it and rebuild it, of course, in such a shape that it would fulfill all its tasks. I'm glad this project came through. I call on the Members of the opposition to point out that this is a presidential project, not a law and justice project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u61	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with a quote from Stanisław Jankowski - architect, participant of the uprising, personal aide Bora-Komorowski, who wrote: Keep today's shape of the grave of the Unknown Soldier due to his emotional action. The power of historical facts made the remains of the classicistic facade grow to the national rank of the Acropolis. Ladies and gentlemen! There will now be no time to discuss these concrete actions, the specific views we have in the case of the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. Minister! I missed one thing in your speech at the committee meeting, i.e. answers to the basic question: What is there? What's in these rebuilt palaces? What's in these rebuilt buildings? Warsaw women and Warsawers expect answers so that they won't be surprised again. [[Poles.]] We remember the situation that en. Piłsudski was very important because of military matters, and then what was created was created without consulting the local authorities. But also as a Warsawian and as a Warsaw Member, I am interested in whether to rebuild or whether this project will preserve the principles of spatial governance, or whether it will also provide open functions. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are in the building of the Sejm, which is beginning to be surrounded by a three-metre fence. Do en. Piłsudski in the new version after reconstruction will be an open space, with open functions, or will it be a closed space, which is now becoming the surroundings of Parliament? Protection of the gardens of Saski. Did you see that coming? This is very important. It's about this old tree of the Saski Garden, communications, parking lots. And one last thing: we just, I mean, we don't have any basic trust in you. PiS is wasting billions: the Ostrołęka plant. We know what kind of professionals you have. [[Stop it, because it doesn't make sense.]] In fact, the most important thing you've made in the specialty is the money, the money for the board of directors of the newly created special purpose company. 28,000. zł - this is the basic salary for a member of the Management Board of this company which arises. I have the impression that this 2400 million will simply be pumped out, as with many investments in this country that you are making. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's what you think of yourselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have a technical problem. The technical problem is that after 1 minute, you don't turn on a system that tells you to stop talking. We're fixing this problem. This happened for the first time in front of Mrs Szmajdzińska. I have a favor to ask of you. Because I gave my word that I wouldn't interrupt, we're heading for three minutes right now. I will light the light on Members and Members. I'm asking you to help me with this, because if we do this, 50 people times 3 minutes, we'll be done at 2:00 a.m. tonight. I'm sorry about the broken system, but I'm gonna remind you of that. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u63	Thank you, Marshal. My club generally has no problem rebuilding both palaces. Our comments focus only on the way in which this reconstruction is to take place. In fact, few of us at the club believe that Law and Justice will begin this reconstruction at all. But I wanted to ask you something completely different. According to the law, these places can be the seat of different entities. I have a specific question for President Andrzej Duda's representative: Did President Duda consider, plan, plan to do his seat here, his office, how will he end his term of office as President of the Republic of Poland? I ask for a specific answer because there are a lot of voices that President Duda has gone out with this initiative because, after his term of office has been completed, he will have a majestic seat in which he will serve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u64	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, look, this is getting serious. Excuse me, sir, or you'll be mobilizing... We can't apologize to somebody all the time. I have a big heart, as my friends at my club know, but I can't always apologize for our mistakes. Mr Janusz Kowalski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Don't mess with all of this, because it's just unpleasant for messengers and MPs. Sorry about the mix-up. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The legislative initiative of Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, is in fact the fulfilment of the will of the dead. President of the Republic of Lech Kaczyński, who was also the President of the capital city of Warsaw. Let us remember that it was in the presence of President Kaczyński that a contract was signed on 21 June 2006 for the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. Had it not been for the decision of Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz and the Civic Platform of 10 July 2008, the Saski Palace would have already been rebuilt. And I would like to remind you that investment costs amounted to PLN 201 million... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But then the crisis came.]] ...and today it's 2 billion. According to the resolution of the Warsaw Capital City Council of 2007, it was supposed to be located there, among others. buildings of the Warsaw Capital City Hall. It is necessary to specialize in the fact that the authorities of the capital city of Warsaw, the Civic Platform, which has been ruling here for several years, failed this basic exam - the exam because of the need to rebuild this part of the capital city of Warsaw, the most beautiful square, which is supposed to be in fact a wonderful place reminiscent of the greatness of the Second Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: After a while you are.]] And one last thing, ladies and gentlemen. Who should pay for this? I have no doubt that Germany should pay for every destroyed, burnt-out building in Warsaw's capital city. [[Applause]] And I hope that on September 1, 2021 the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki with a note, with a specific diplomatic note, will begin the formal process, seeking reparations for the destruction, burning Warsaw. About the reparations from Germany. Every zloty for rebuilding the capital city of Warsaw should be paid by Germany. [[Voice from the hall: Not only Warsaw.]] Of course all of Poland, yes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u67	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The reconstruction of the Saski Palace, whose notabene I am a supporter, although not necessarily now, here, at this moment, will not be a reconstruction accompanied by an agreement and agreement of Poles around this investment. Why? Because Law and Justice decided to divide Poles in this matter. Mr Suski - not to be confused with Saski - at the meeting of the cultural committee he asked those who asked difficult questions, logical questions to call Germans. I wonder if President Duda decided to rebuild the monuments after the Swedish Flood, let us give the castle in Chęciny, notabene built by Poles, not by the electors and kings of Saxon, whether the opponents of this reconstruction would be called Swedish. I appeal to you to come to your senses. This is not the property of Law and Justice. This will not prove that in fact the reconstruction of Warsaw has finished Law and Justice. I appeal for consent, for reason and for you to stop freaking out about this and to divide Poles into better and worse - those who are patriots and those who are traitors because they have doubts about the reconstruction of the Saski Palace. [[Applause]] [[That's just the way it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When building the Saski Palace, did President Andrzej Duda envy Edward Gierko? I don't know, but I'm gonna ask the president's representatives, kindly asking for an answer. The promoter and head of the President, President Kaczyński, wants the Germans to pay for the reconstruction. I have a question: What is Mr Kaczyński's desire based on? [[You really don't know?]] The President wrote in the explanatory memorandum that this investment is an expression of Poles' will and serves to strengthen the unity of the civic community. I would therefore like to ask the President what investments were planned in relation to the Jubilee in Bydgoszcz, because the people of our city also have the will to rebuild the monuments and would also like to feel a civic community with the inhabitants of Warsaw and the whole country. In 2017, President Jarosław Kaczyński announced a plan for the reconstruction of the Kazimierz castles at the Convention of Law and Justice. He said that Poland is one, the community of Poles can be built, among others. By beauty. I would like to ask, at what stage is this idea for the reconstruction of Kazimierz castles and which since 2017 in Poland have been rebuilt or where work has begun in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u71	Minister! Mr. Marshal! The reconstruction of the Saski Palace is a special act of memory, which will remain a permanent trace of the celebration of Poland's regaining independence, a manifestation of Poles' concern for the material heritage of the sovereign homeland, but also an act of reconstruction after the barbaric destructions caused by the Germans during World War II. Such places as Warsaw, destroyed achievements of centuries-old Polish culture, are much more. One should mention the 13th-century collegiate in Wieluń bombed in the first moments of war, All Saints Hospital designed by the famous Italian architect Marconi and many other places in various parts of Poland. The concept of partial reconstruction of the parish church was developed in Wieluń - the Museum of Civil Victims of the Second World War would be there. On the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, President Andrzej Duda gave the city the bell of memory and warning. Minister: Will the historical policy, part of which is the reconstruction of the material heritage of Poland destroyed during World War II, also include other investments in other places of Poland, including in Wieluń? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Restoration of the Saski Palace, Brühl Palace and tenements at ul. I'm sure the King's is a great challenge. As can be read in the explanatory memorandum, the restoration of this precious place will on the one hand be a tribute paid to generations of Poles fighting for independence and the welfare of their homeland, and on the other will be devoted to cultural, educational and socially useful activities. Therefore, as a Member of the Committee on Culture, I would like to ask about the other side. In view of the fact that the cost of reconstruction will be - at least you assume - almost PLN 2.5 billion and add to it also huge maintenance costs, do you already have a precise plan, which cultural, educational and socially useful institutions will find their place in rebuilt buildings? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the only reason I'm asking this is because I didn't find the answer to this question in your bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u74	Thank you very much. As you can see, the system has been repaired, so we're going to try to stick to time from now on. [[All you had to do was hit the table, Marshal.]] No, it was enough to be calm and calm in the proceedings. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the explanatory memorandum to the bill on reconstruction, among others. The Saski Palace is mentioned that this investment is supposed to cost the state budget almost PLN 2.5 billion. I think that when this investment was planned, it was not taken into account, among others. the increase in prices of goods and services, especially in construction, which in recent years is between a dozen and several hundred percent. Therefore, is such an assessment taking place here? That's one thing. Secondly, the issue of Parliament's control over the state of construction and expenditure. When Euro 2012 investments were made, the special purpose company submitted information to the Sejm every year on the state of implementation of individual investments and expenditures. Does this law provide for such a mechanism concerning the provision by the company of information on the state of play of the task and expenditure entrusted to the Polish Parliament? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! As far as the reconstruction of the Saski Palace is concerned, I will honestly say that I am sure as many people in Warsaw have many doubts, because, however, the grave of the Unknown Soldier is now part of this square as something extraordinary, something that reminds us of the tragedy of the times of World War II. But I also have such a deep feeling that the state can't just do it. I remember that in 2020 the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw was to be opened. I remember that it was supposed to be a great celebration - a 100-year anniversary - and therefore we were all going to visit the Museum of the Battle of Warsaw. This museum does not exist and it is unknown when it will rise, although it was a strong commitment from the government. And similarly, I feel that we are now to decide on the allocation of PLN 2.4 billion during the pandemic, because we cannot even say: after the pandemic (the Bell), in a situation where there is a lot of social needs, to build a monumental monument to the government of the PiS rather than something that is necessary for Poles. Besides, it happens without consulting the Warsaw community, without the support of the city, which maybe... nobody talked to him about it, in a situation where the city is also not to participate in the use of this building, because this building is to be used only for government purposes. In this connection, let me be honest with you, I do not like this idea, and I also think simply in the world that you are not able to do this. But just like the money on the masks, you're able to waste it and the money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u78	Miss, I can do a lot, but I can't hang time. Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u79	Members and Members of the PiS! I have a favor to ask. I am sick and tired of being a Warsaw woman for generations, as a representative of Warsaw women and Warsaw women in this building, of you ruining our city so that you can mess with things that are related to spatial order, taking over public space by force. Now we have a climate crisis, there are tornadoes, there are floods, because we all see it, you see it too, and you want to build another big building, probably cut out the trees, because you can't make an underground parking lot, and all these cars going to this building will have to park somewhere. Park Saski's gonna cut out, right? Those are wonderful plans of yours that you're not revealing right now. It's gigantomania. You want to rebuild something that has been changed many times - the architecture of this building for a number of years - and in fact you will rebuild, well, cepeliad, you will do, you will give the Warsaw people and Warsaw cepeliad, because this is your next gigantic project. As Mr Szopiński said, there are no Kazimierz castles, and you want to build another palace in Warsaw. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Warsaw is a symbol of Poland, Warsaw is the capital of Poland, and it is also my capital. And I am surprised that anyone who lives in Warsaw thinks that someone who is in Poland has no right to talk about the development of Warsaw. Because we all want Warsaw to grow. Thinking about the future, you have to remember the past. And this presidential project is exactly the kind of project that's supposed to connect those who have been, certain places, certain people, certain events, with what's ahead. Undoubtedly, this building, which will rise, is also to serve this purpose. I am surprised that the inhabitants of Warsaw are against something, while the majority of Warsaw's society spoke - as the chairman of the committee said - studies indicated that most of Warsaw's society would like to rebuild this beautiful building, the Saski Palace or Brühla. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also have a question: Will any procedures be followed here? Because there's a fear that construction procedures will not be followed. Is this a monument of pride or is it a monument of humility and turning to the people who lived in the past? But I also have a question for the Minister... Mr... I'm almost done. Because it's important too. We think about Warsaw, but we also think about Poland as a whole. Wouldn't it be possible to create such a project that in every county in Poland... There was the Saski Palace. ...is there a monument like this? Not the Saska Palace, but a building that also... Thank you very much, sir. ... witnessing our history, our past. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u82	Thank you very much. Ms Margaret Tracz, Parliamentary Club of the Citizens' Coalition - Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating how to spend almost PLN 2.5 billion over the next 10 years. The President argues that it is worth spending this money on the reconstruction of only one monument - the Saski Palace in Warsaw. All for the grand purpose of celebrating the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. High Izbo! Let's learn from Finland how to celebrate the 100th anniversary of independence. The Finns built a modern library and culture centre in Helsinki for the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. It didn't cost them billions, it didn't require a special company for fat cats. On the other hand, if we want to spend this money on the reconstruction of monuments, let us look at the monuments already existing and calling for renovations and renovations. 100 valuable monuments (The Bell) on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u85	Minister! I'd like to ask you about the payouts at the special-purpose company. They will be given to persons who will perform their duties on the board of directors and the board of directors. Here it is worth explaining to the public what this salary looks like. It must not exceed five times the average wage. It today amounts to PLN 5805.72 and, as it is easy to count, five times it is over 29 thousand. zł. The annual cost of this salary, assuming that these people are employed on the board and supervisory board, will be over PLN 3 million. Question: "Did you consider that this supervisory board should work and be rewarded in the way that the proposed Council for Reconstruction set up in the Act?" And finally: our, the Lefts, the postulates of higher wages, not palaces, the state change really in a grotesque way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to this discussion, I feel that if Members of the opposition who oppose this construction or have many objections to the construction of the Saski Palace, the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, decided to rebuild Warsaw, we would not rebuild this Warsaw until today after the war. [[Applause]] [[That's right, bravo!]] We would further consider public consultations, environmental decisions, whether everyone would be happy, whether perhaps these buildings were the same as before the bombing. Ladies and gentlemen, here should be a discussion on how to do it right and not at all. [[Voice from the room: Then don't do it.]] [[The voice from the room: You're gonna screw it up anyway.]] Don't use vulgarity, sir. [[Honest, what did you say? Apologize.]] Adam Asnyk wrote in the poem "Do not step on the altars of the past, although you yourself are to be better raised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are not talking about tearing down the Palace of Culture and Science, we are talking about erecting a monument also for people who worked on the reconstruction of Warsaw, also for people who were not connected with Warsaw. Warsaw is all of us, also farmers who delivered mandatory deliveries to people who built Warsaw. So Warsaw as the capital is all Poles. Let us build even more perfect altars, but together, altars of our democracy, altars... Mr... ...also for people who worked for the reconstruction of post-war Warsaw. It's a symbol. Mr... Let's work on this together, but let's not deny everything just because... Mr... ...to show that this is a project of the United Right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Enough altars, enough churches, enough palaces. [[Voice from the hall: Enough Mieszkowski.]] Mr President, I would like to inform you that your colleague Marek Suski, at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture yesterday, announced that by rebuilding the Saski Palace, at the same time he wants to destroy the Palace of Culture, so please establish a club position on this matter. Let us not build palaces, create a participatory culture, active, close to local communities. 2.5 billion is enough to build and equip 250 modern, open and friendly centres of culture and libraries, such as the Centre for Alternative Culture in Środa Śląska. Why does Andrzej Duda, disregarding the Act on the Protection of Monuments, Public Procurement Law and any public consultation, propose to build a palace for bureaucrats instead of taking care of the needs that are close to their place of residence? Numerous authorities of the world of culture, architecture and urban planning, among others, spoke in an open letter against the reconstruction of the palace. Agnieszka Holland, Filip Springer, Sylwia Chutnik, Jan Komasa, Małgorzata Omilanowska, as well as experts spoke, e.g. author of the book "Best City in the World." Warsaw in the reconstruction of 1944-1949.Grzegorz Piątek, as well as Mrs Marta Leśniakowska, Mr Andrzej Pałys, Mrs Anda Rottenberg. They're all against building this palace. Mr... Let's not build palaces, let's build cultural houses. [[Applause]] [[That's what convinced me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Marcelin Zawisza, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u91	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! During the pandemic, a great deal of workers worked for 80% salary - employees whose bosses used the shield, those who took care of their children and benefited from a special allowance. As a matter of fact, they were mostly women. It is worth noting that during this period the State did not pay them pension contributions, as the Left pointed out, so they were and are twice injured. 80% workers on sick leave were also paid wages. We're one step away from the budget strike because you decided to freeze their salaries. And now, with a light hand, you give 2.5 billion dollars to rebuild the palace. Congratulations on your priorities. Higher wages, not palaces! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ma'am! If there are plans, dreams, as well as dreams of Warsaw women and Warsaw women, about the city's history, then you should do it in harmony with the city, you should do it in harmony with the Warsaw people. You should ask people how they want this city built. Finally, it is worth considering the purpose of such a building, its usefulness. Is what you're proposing really what people want? Where is another place for culture in Warsaw? Why are you denying it? Why do you think that places where you could leave the memory of World War II as it is - these rifts in the city - are the best for building? We as a club have very big doubts about this project. 2.5 billions are huge money. Why don't you take them off this lying TVP and then give them away, but first of all, consult with people what they want. It cannot be that you will once again own everything only for your (the bell) and only for your vision. If there is to be something in common, everyone must have a sense of this community, not during the pandemic a sense of taking away, patronizing and also destroying history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice authorities have rightly assumed that their authority is already ending, and have decided to build themselves an expensive monument. But unfortunately, that's the way it is with the statues of power that ordinary people pay for it. That's how it's gonna be this time. For this palace in Warsaw will be paid by a nurse from Tychy, for this palace in Warsaw will be paid by an employee of the court in Chorzów. 2.5 billion per palace, zero raises for the budget. 30,000 each. zł salary for the board of the company building the palace and zero zloty for increases for the employees of courts, Social Insurance Institution, Treasury, i.e. persons whose domestic budgets They suffered very much during the pandemic. Is that the priorities of the ruling right? Because the Party Together has no doubt, which is more important. Higher wages, not palaces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not be fooled, the decision to rebuild or to rebuild the Saski Palace has been made and will be implemented. This is probably a more political and less substantive decision. The political promoter of the President, President Kaczyński, presented a project to rebuild the castles of Kazimierzów some time ago. As we know, nothing is happening in this matter. So I have a question for you. Is the reconstruction of the Saski Palace supposed to replace the reconstruction of the Kazimierz castles? Has the President's proposal been consulted with the President? Yesterday's debate at the Committee on Culture was mostly substantive, substantive questions and substantive criticism, not criticism, but substantive criticism. Historians - and not only - know what criticism is. Unfortunately, the vice-president of the committee, Mr Suski, one of the leading politicians of PiS, refused some of the patriotic debaters (the bell), despised the German option. That's why I'm asking you a question. Will such hateful rhetoric be used by the camp running with the President in the lead in convincing Poles to rebuild the Saski Palace? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popiołek, the parliamentary club of the Left, came from the committee, whose speech we were about to move to a further place. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u99	It turns out that good condition is also useful when you run from the committee meeting to the plenary room. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government maintained its decision to freeze wages in the budgetary sphere in 2022. These salaries are already too low compared to salaries in the private sector. Young people often either do not want to work in the budget, or after gaining experience they simply change jobs. In 2022, these salaries will not only not increase, but will fall due to high inflation. The dramatic situation is in smaller cities. In order to illustrate this, I will say that a budget clerk in the county city must work 2 months per meter of new apartment, because the price of 1 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! The question to the representatives of the President: What palace will be rebuilt: the one that was erected by August II, August III from the Saxon Wettyny dynasty, or the palace of Ivan Squartov? Which version? It's a fundamental matter, because the palace that you're talking about here is more a manifestation or... [[Voice from the room: He's confused.]] ...an example of Russian domination. It was the Tsar Nicholas I who ordered to destroy the core of the Saski Palace and to build a colonnade in the heavy style of Petersburg classicism modeled on the classicism of Prussian. In this palace was the governor of the Tsar Ivan Paskiewicz (Dzwonek), who won the capital by storm at the trenches of Wola. Then this palace was bought by his supporter, Skwarcow, who rented it to commercial premises and other shrines. So the basic question is: What will be rebuilt: what had value, or what is rather a symbol of the Russians' capture and humiliation of the capital? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a lover of castles, manor houses and palaces, I visit them passionately throughout Europe, I know thousands of them, but the construction of the Saski Palace, actually Suski, I am against, because it will be Suski's palace, and not Saski's will talk about it anyway. The fact that you're gonna cut the trees out there, because, as you said at the committee meeting, they didn't grow there until 1945, that's a bitch. As a justification, you state that the Germans rebuilt the Prussian Hohenzollern Palace in Berlin. An inadequate example, because you are simply uneducated. It's German, but it's also the Wettins, so as an example you should give the Dresden residence palace, which was actually rebuilt a few years ago. You were there. Did you see that there are Polish eagles? Because it was the German king (the bell), but it was also Polish. Will you put German eagles in Suski's palace? And you have read the historical novel Kraszewskiego entitled. Brühl? Will there be information in the Brühl Palace about this Minister of Intrigue? I think this is an infinite pattern for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u105	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been driving around the country lately, dating Poles and Poles, talking to them for a long time... [[No, really? Amazing.]] ...and I'll tell you, there's nothing like palaces for people. Especially will those who have suffered in pandemics whose businesses have gone bankrupt, who cannot afford a decent life after a wave of increases who do not have access to health care, collective communication, good education, decent retirement, because they all dream of another palace. After all, there's not every village where Hunger or Obajtek live, is there? It's also a good thing the government's going into real estate because there's inflation that it's not worth keeping in your account. And Prime Minister Morawiecki is so clever about spending beyond the budget that it is not known how much Polish debt is: whether 1.5 trillion PLN or maybe two already. It is a very far-sighted policy (The Bell) for which the next generations of Poles and Poles will thank you. Possibly even that they will lift a wave of gratitude, they will overthrow your monuments and palaces one by one, until there is no trace of your corrupt, anti-European, anti-Polish and simply inhuman governments. [[Applause]] [[It's so strong. Amazing. What a diction.]] [[Voice from the room: It's true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u106	Thank you very much. I have a request for you, sir. Since you've been talking to yourself for two hours, I have a request for you with really great empathy: consult with someone about it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The problem, Mr. Marshal, is that you're busy right now.]] Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Reconstructed buildings are not monuments, but merely more or less successful copies. Such activities do not fall within the sphere of antiquities protection. The grave of the Unknown Soldier is entered in the register of monuments. After the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, it will be removed from this register. There will be degradation of the historical substance, as in the case of the Cathedral of Bagrata in Kutaisi. This cathedral in ruins was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, and after reconstruction it was deleted from this list. The Saski Palace in Warsaw will not be a monument, it will not be authentic in the smallest inch, because there are no bricks that were in that building, there are no such mortars. In 1964 in Venice II the International Congress of Architects and Monuments Technicians adopted the Venetian Charter and 5 basic principles of conservation. All these principles will be broken in Warsaw, because you will not respect the original substance (The Bell) of construction and materials. All newly added elements of the historic building should be distinguishable from the original, it is unacceptable to place faithful copies of the building elements in the original place. This position was repeated by the main conservator of monuments in 2012. Do you have any specialists in your company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u108	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Parliamentary Club Citizens' Coalition - Greens. [[There'll be something about trees.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 2.5 billion PLN - this is the cost of reconstruction. Wouldn't that amount instead of a giant and another concrete monument be better spent on planting 70,000? Ha forest? [[Told you? The trees.]] That would at least be some kind of natural compensation for 250 million trees you've cut out since 2015. Wouldn't it be better to use this money to set up the Turnic National Park, to enlarge the Białowieża National Park, maybe to finance the program "Clean air," really, not just seemingly, getting rid of smog and helping the poorest? Today, ladies and gentlemen, when the climate disaster has reached Europe and Poland, the land is literally starting to come from under our feet. You have one last chance. Fall back from the giant mania and the concrete. Stop wasting our money. Start building the most beautiful monuments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the sake of climate and people, build natural monuments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Instead of rebuilding the Saski Palace, I have a proposal to build a saxon shaft. Destiny these countries 2.5 billion PLN for investment, which really is needed in Poland, because Europe, because Germany and the Czech Republic, but also in recent days Poland has been haunted by hail rains, storms, many rivers have occurred outside its shores, flooded people with companies, houses, workplaces. Losses are huge and today in Poland it is really necessary to regulate issues related to the construction of flood shafts. Unfortunately, you have neglected this subject very much in your governments. Today, there is no need for the Saski Palace in Poland, but for real shafts. Let them be called Saxons, let them be called Saxons, Moravian, no matter how, but use this money to invest really needed in our country. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The reconstruction of the Saski Palace according to the idea of President Andrzej Duda will cost more than 2.5 billion and this amount will probably increase significantly. With that money, you could restore $1,000. Courts, palaces, cemeteries or tenement houses, which fall into permanent ruins, and yet they bear witness to our history. But this investment is another very expensive idea of law and justice politicians. I have a question: Have the inhabitants of Warsaw been consulted before working on this document? Has Warsaw asked what their actual expectations are? If the President had spent some time talking to the people of Warsaw, he would surely have found out that their needs in the 3rd decade of the 21st century are very different. Looking at, for example, through the prism of the civil budget and its results, it is clear that security, greenery and clean air are important for the inhabitants of the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u114	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u115	Thank you. High Izbo! Minister! The monument of the Unknown Soldier and the neighboring Saski Garden are important points on the map of Warsaw, important points for Warsaw women and Warsaw women. Did someone at the Ministry ask them what they wanted to see? No. The inhabitants of Warsaw do not need another monument of power built above their heads for PLN 2.5 billion, without consulting the local government, without the supervision of the conservator of monuments. Warsaw needs investment in greenery, in new tram lines, in small retention, in neglected stock of municipal housing that needs renovations... [[It's for the President of Warsaw with this. Trzaskowski...]] ...and Poles and Poles need efficient public institutions whose employees are well paid. Meanwhile, you decided to freeze their salaries for another year. Higher wages, not palaces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, as I have been observing for almost two years what is happening here, the right side of this House still has a problem with identity, with the identity of Poland, therefore with the identity of Warsaw. They don't know, they're afraid of the future, they're afraid of what's modern, so they're trying to push us into the middle ages or the worst times of the 17th century. Yesterday, a private American company sent people, private people into space. Three companies will send people into space within a month, and we spend $2 billion building some dubious monument. Yesterday, a private company sent people into space... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...and we want to spend money on what in 2017, only sell grain and sell a tree without doing anything about it in Poland. In Poland, you do not even produce a processor, and you spend several billion on building a dubious monument and several billion on TV PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's how you spend your money. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of this investment is your ramparts. And not flood shafts you didn't build, but financial shafts. And it's not gonna cost $2 billion, it's gonna cost a dozen billion to clog your pockets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The building of the Saski Palace raises many reservations and protests of historians, people of culture, architects and even Warsaw insurgents. A lot of protests result in the practical destruction of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, perhaps the most important monument in our country, the symbol of the Martyrology of the Polish people, the pacifist monument. But I'm moving on to the essence of my question. The assumed cost is PLN 2.4 billion. Will Mr. Suski try to estimate how much it will ultimately cost? 5 billion? Seven billion? In addition, it is money spent in a completely non-transparent way, breaking all laws. It will be a reconstruction of the monument with violation of the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Monuments, the Act on Public Procurement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The experiences you have are great, but the consequences may be fatal for our common money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Throughout Poland thousands of real monuments require urgent rescue, urgent action. These are the monuments that constitute our real heritage, the monuments that can unfortunately disappear in a moment. Many of them could be saved for those billions of gold. Among these objects is, among others. The station in Macka's pine district. It's a real pearl, today it's forgotten by you. It turns out that in the state budget there are not tens of millions of zlotys to save this historic object, to adapt it, for example. to the museum of national liberation uprisings, in order to remind about these events, but also about the beautiful card of the Zagłęgian history, i.e. the fight for free Poland. That's not there. That's what's missing. Today, our duty - in the name of respect for the sacrifice (The Bell) of our ancestors - is to save heritage and such objects as the pine railway station in Mackie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u123	High Izbo! I'm listening to this discussion with some disgust. It sounds like we're talking about an impressive construction project while we're talking about a national sanctuary where you want to dig. That's not a good idea. These broken columns, these destroyed arcades, this is a scar that reminds us of the German Nazi barbarism in our capital. You guys want to hide that scar today. This is a scar that makes you remember what the German fascists did to Warsaw. For us, for those who grew up here, this is also the memory of our families who died in the uprising, this is the memory of our families who were driven out of the city just when the Germans devastated them. It's not a good idea that it's a national sanctuary to rebuild into a monument of your own glory, and that's what you do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not a good idea either because we don't want the memory of World War II to look like it's going to disappear in time, the memory of this fascist barbarism that took place in Warsaw, and the monument to peace in Hiroshima, will remain an open ruin of the Church of the Remembrance of Emperor Wilhelm in West Berlin. In my opinion, what you are doing harms the memory of World War II and harms the memory of German fascist barbarism. Get out of this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u125	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Symbols are very important both in personal life and in national, national life. One such symbol is undoubtedly the Saski Palace. Probably never will be the right time, probably always the amounts will be too high, but in the context of this specialist you should ask yourself key questions. First of all, what's the rush? Why are we discussing here very emotionally, not substantively? Does this bill involve the reconstruction of objects within the framework of consent, cooperation, as a respect for the regulations that the High House had previously passed? This includes, for example, provisions on conservation protection and tendering procedures. No, it's not. The main question: Will the project to be carried out be a better testimony to the history of martyrdom of the whole Warsaw capital of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or this new idea? I don't know if it's a good initiative or a bad one. I believe that we need discussion, discussion and, above all, cooperation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Presidential reconstruction project of the Saski Palace is a big topic. It will cost several billion zlotys. The amount could be up to a dozen. Let me ask you something else. The Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately, is not here, so please respond in writing in advance. Will there finally be resources for monuments in Dąbrowski Zagłęg? There is a palace of Mieroszewski, a castle in Siewierz, a castle in Bedzin. Voivodship monument conservator has a combination of funds to support renovation, modernization and reconstruction of monuments in the Śląskie voivodship. It is unable to allocate any resources that could strongly support local authorities in the implementation of these investments. I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Gliński a question, but I can't see him, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good time to mention your inability. You have Ostrołęka - a symbol of 2 billion PLN spent, you have CPK, where you burn money every month for remuneration for supervisory boards, for presidents. It's another investment you just can't finish. Like an express seven to Radom. Another issue is, for example, the construction of the Polish Armed Group in Radom, promised by Marek Suski. You didn't do that either. I'm already overlooking the issues of the promised money, the money to equip the Radom Rehabilitation Center. You didn't do all this, but you want to build a castle. You've already broken away from reality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you need this project? To spend another billion zlotys? The next question arises directly. You built a staircase in this square. Monument - Where do you want to put it? In the throne room? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Yes, sir, I was wondering how to answer your question about why you do not see Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. And I came up with an idea because he's not here. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[We've already noticed that.]] [[But it had to come up with an idea to consult.]] [[Voice from the room: Genius.]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm Warsawan. My ancestors sought the right to describe Warsaw in the world as Paris of the North. My parents were rebuilding the Royal Castle, and we, modern Warsawers, are doing everything we can to make Warsaw a beautiful and comfortable city. But the investment we're talking about doesn't fit into the effort. Why? You're saying... The applicant was talking about a consultation. Who? Or with piranhas? The Prague part of Warsaw is beautiful. There's a lot of Art Nouveau houses out there. That'll be 10 percent. That sum you're talking about - 2.5 billions - to rebuild at least some of these civilized houses (The Bell), guaranteeing beauty and security. The authorities of Warsaw - Mr. Marshal, I am almost done - must take care to move people, move people from tenement houses that collapse. And these are beautiful Art Nouveau houses. As an inhabitant of Żoliborz, we must take care of the Sokolnicki Fort. We locals rebuilt it, but it's such a slight reconstruction. It's gotta be done. It's deep, you have to dehydrate, you need it, you need that. There's a lot of things to do to get that part of the citadel back. I'm not going to exchange any more because I'd take at least an hour. Thank you for this, but I would like to address the President's representatives: think about it. Investment, beauty of Warsaw - yes, but not in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u132	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've been given an opinion about the restoration of the Saski Palace. It is possible to discuss whether money should be spent on the reconstruction of the Saski Palace - and not at all on reconstruction, only professionally it should be said: reconstruction, because reconstruction is something else - or maybe on renovation or helping to maintain in good condition the monuments of architecture, our gems, which all over Poland are falling apart many times. These are really beautiful things to take care of. I wanted to ask why the reconstruction of the Saski Palace should cost PLN 2.5 billion. The cost of building the National Stadium (The Bell) was almost half lower, although the range was several times higher. Why were the authorities of Warsaw and residents omitted and excluded according to this specialization? I suspect it's because there's an art written in this specialty. 12, which says that in order to build a palace, a special purpose vehicle is created and the provisions of the Public Procurement Law do not apply to this special purpose vehicle. Miss... Ladies and gentlemen! It's simply said that it's about hiring your people for giant money and giving away that money. Because it is already stated in this Act that the management board and the supervisory board may take five times the national average. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a robbery in broad daylight. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I suppose my club will abstain in this case, and this project will pass and you will have this construction. Without going into the story, I want to tell you what's going to happen next. The land will be buried in the center of Warsaw, there will be expenses, the costs will be the same as in the case of another great investment... [[Theoretically or in practice?]] ...that's the excavation of the Vistula Mill. It was supposed to cost 880 million. It's already 2 billion, and that's not all. [[Theoretically or in practice?]] For all this, ladies and gentlemen, it will end with you losing your power, and this monument of your pride will remain in our hands. And I promise you, then we'll finish building the palace. We're not gonna make him a statue of PiS power. We will preserve the shape of the center of Polish Martyrology, or the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. We'll do whatever you destroy (the bell), you'll destroy, you'll ruin, and you'll leave the successors behind. As with the LNG terminal, about which, as you started building, there were not even environmental consents. We built this terminal under the key - so that you would call it the Lech Kaczyński terminal. This palace may then have, in our time, the name of Władysław Bartoszewski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You are absent, Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński! Are you really going to spend almost PLN 2.5 billion, plus what comes out of inflation, on the Saski Palace at a time when people are worried about their health and their lives and their jobs? This is a joke. The architects and art historians have warned that rebuilding the palace will mean destroying the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in its present shape, which is the last of our history. For Poles and Poles it is a sacred place. Why do you want to destroy them? But by removing the question of whether to rebuild, let's think about why. What's in this building? For you, this question is irrelevant. Suski Palace, like the Central Communication Port, you really need it. Not to build it, but to create another company that feeds on other fat cats. Don't step on history... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's already been done.]] Last sentence. Use this 2.5 billion plus inflation for something really needed. And about the shape of Piłsudski Square let the inhabitants of Warsaw decide. Come to your senses. High Izbo! People are waiting for higher wages, not palaces. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u138	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the reconstruction of the Saski Palace rightly raises huge doubts. Under the slogans of continuation or completion of the work of post-war reconstruction, fundamental values relating to the heritage of the place are threatened, and this is primarily one of the most valuable monuments in our country, the grave of the Unknown Soldier. It is not only that the decision to rebuild is made without recognition, without consulting the local community, it is still in the specialty mode. How can we at a time of the pandemic of Coronavirus stop economic development when people are losing their jobs and shutting down their activities, spend billions of zlotys from the budget on such a luxurious whim? Has anyone estimated the later cost of the palace? How much are they gonna be? How is the investment to be made (the bell) when the foundations of the original palace have been entered in the register of monuments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask Mr Glinski a question, but of course he is not in this Chamber because he does not want to listen to our opinions, just like the whole PiS club, like the President - I say it with great regret - who did not take advantage of the situation that we, but especially the people of Warsaw, asked what they thought of his idea. How to obtain such large resources - 2.5 billion PLN - in such a difficult economic situation of Poland? Why did the President use this moment not to unite the nation, but to divide it again? Why do you not respect this place, which is so important for Poles? Why do you want to destroy the character of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, which is so important to us as a historical heritage? Why are you doing this? Why do you make such important regulations in the form of a specialty? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you want to make up for an incredible amount of money -- almost 30,000. zł - their officers who will serve in this company? It's really dirty.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u142	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u143	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The reconstruction of the Saski Palace and other smaller investments associated with it are certainly very necessary, because it is our cultural heritage, but for everything comes the right time. The amount of PLN 2.4 billion is simply devastating. This is our money, taxpayers' money, and in today's epidemiological threat, you don't have to look far to find out what the need is. Alert: health care, palliative care, homes, senior care facilities, health care salaries, lack of staff. The average age of the nurse is 55 and 56 years old, ladies and gentlemen. Soon a sick person in a medical facility will be forced by the family to send one person to care for her, because hospitals are being shut down because of lack of staff. There is no luxury if the basic needs are not met. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mind your own business. That's our money. Moreover, if there are resources for these purposes, it is not only Warsaw that is in need. I ask for the eastern wall, Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. We also have a lot of monuments, including, among others. The castle in Elk, which I am a resident. [[Castle?]] I ask for a fair distribution of our resources. And finally, isn't this an investment for the ruling party? 'Cause there's gonna be a board of directors, managers, executives, orders, contracts for the next two kids. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u144	Thank you. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're not here, Minister! I hope you can hear me. I'm sure. Sites of national memory, reconstruction of monuments are very important issues that should connect us, Poles. Unfortunately, the bill's draft, the specialties you've prepared, doesn't connect, but divides. We are talking about rebuilding the Saski Palace without consulting the residents, excluding local governments, or, in fact, excluding local governments, disregarding the Act on the Protection of Monuments, the Act on Public Procurement, without financial control. In this symbolic place, the memory of the victims of Polish soldiers and their resistance in the fight against the invader, in a place symbolized by the grave of the Unknown Soldier, in a place which is wounded in the hearts of Poles, Warsawians, you want to build a palace. You want to bury this memory, you want to take this area away from the local government, you want to build palaces. Not new palaces (the bell), but higher wages for health care, for rescuers, nurses, midwives, for oncology should be the government's priority today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Repairs and reconstructions are an important issue, and it would be good if we implemented such elements into social reconstruction plans, but police stations, renovations of schools, hospitals. In my constituency from the Harvest through Nakło to Tuchola there are huge shortcomings. These are tens, sometimes hundreds of millions, which must be spent in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region for such renovations. And with a light hand, we translate 2.5. , maybe 3 or 4 billion, because no one knows today to rebuild one palace in Warsaw. The palace megalomania mastered the idea that we would all be proud of it. But we would be more proud of this if the social program of renovations and reconstruction of educational institutions, police stations and other public utility units were in our hearts, but also in local communities, than that we would have one (Dawn) big building in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Paradoxically, the question about money, about big money, how the amount of PLN 2.5 billion is a very good question, is the correct question, is the question on the spot. Why is it so expensive, could it be cheaper, or would it be more expensive? But this is the question that you should ask, for that is the question that those Members who are so eager to go to the various controls at the ministries, such as Mr Szczerba or Mr Joński, should take very seriously. But why? Therefore, to point out that, for a good cause, this is only one palace, you could say, only one building that was destroyed by the Germans, and its reconstruction will cost so much. What it's gonna cost to build, rebuild... What will be the calculation of reconstruction costs, what were they, Warsaw and other places in Poland? It's very good for you to calculate it, because for that money, we just have to report to the Germans. I am sure that you - I am addressing you here (the bell) from the Civic Platform - will help us in this, because it is your duty to bring the Germans here and say: you pay for what you have destroyed us. It's just your duty. [[Voice from the hall:...Lower Silesia.]] Ladies and gentlemen, another case. I don't blame the Left, I don't blame the Platform for saying it the way they say it. Mr President, time is running out. But I'm surprised by the folks, because what he said, for example. Mr Kurzawa, comparing the fact that it is better to rebuild granaries than the Saski Palace, it is only in the heads of the people that can appear. I think Mr. Klimczak said something about Mr. Duda's residence, too. Mr... Embarrassing. And one more thing that is very important to me, because one member of the Left... Mr... ...said to build a community in Warsaw. How you build this community while we're waiting for the hive. Lech Kaczyński... Mr... ...a ul. Is Dzierzyński still in Warsaw? Is this what you think it is to build a community? Mr... Mr Łącki was talking about people flying into space, comparing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Beata Maciejewska from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! They have no bread, let them eat cookies - she was going to tell Maria Antoinette about the starving people of Paris. Today, like Poles and Poles, President Duda says: You are in a crisis after a pandemic, can't make ends meet, have you gone bankrupt? It doesn't matter. We'll build a palace. [[No, not really.]] In the centre of Warsaw we will build a palace. Let the foolish people come and watch as your public means appear. [[But who's stupid? There is no stupid people in Poland, Madam Member.]] This is a presidential project that so much likes Jarosław Kaczyński. You can say it's worth the Palace, it's worth the Palace, it's worth the Palace. [[Get her out of the club.]] Have you asked, Members and Members of the PiS, your constituents... [[What do you mean, stupid people?]] ...what do they think of this palace for PLN 2.5 billion? 'Cause I'll tell you what you can build for it. For PLN 2.5 billion... [[Shame on you.]] ...you can build 10,000. Apartments... [[Stupid people.]] ...50-metre apartments, you can build 10 specialist hospitals... [[What does that mean, silly people, Madame Member?]] ...you can build 500 crèches. So don't treat People like idiots because people aren't stupid. [[That's how you treat them. That's what you just said.]] People are not stupid, sir. If you tell people they'll come and watch the palace... [[That's what you said.]] ...that means you treat people like they're a stupid people. [[You have to apologize now.]] And people are not a stupid people. People want 10,000. apartments to make their children and grandchildren... [[Apologize to the Poles for those words.]] ...they didn't have to leave Poland. People want specialist hospitals. People want daycare for their grandkids. Thank you. Apologize to Poles and Poles for this. [[Shame!]] Thank you very much. You apologize. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. [[That's ugly.]] I have a request for you, sir. You had a platform... [[But he cut it off, you turned my mic off.]] I've extended your time by a minute. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Sir, I've extended your time by a minute. I also asked you to stop interrupting and not to talk to yourself. [[But you don't react to how this lady insults Poles.]] Sir, I guarantee you, if Marshal Terlecki were sitting here, you'd be removed from the courtroom by now. Then respect both marshals as well. Mr Rutka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2.5 billions spent on the reconstruction of the Saski Palace - this is the estimated cost of reconstruction. However, I have many doubts about the reliability of this respect. The cost of the excavation of the Vistula mine was originally estimated at PLN 800 million. Today, at stage 3/4 of the development of this investment, the cost reached almost PLN 2 billion. Very often the current authority emphasizes that it does the will of the sovereign, the will of the people. The reconstruction of the Royal Castle began in 1971. Edward Gierek did not finance the reconstruction of the budget money, but appealed to citizens and citizens for a national fundraiser. The Royal Castle was created from donations of our compatriots, our ancestors, with significant participation of Polonia. The cost of building a kindergarten is about PLN 10 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The funds that were earmarked for the construction of the palace would be enough to build 250 kindergartens, i.e. most of the 314 municipalities in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u154	Thank you very much. Ms Magdalena Gawin, Minister Małgorzata Paprocka and Mr Piotr Babinetz will now speak. I have a very kind request for you. As 60 Members and Members have spoken, we now have 40 minutes in the back. If you could fit in a little less than 15 minutes, each of you, I would just be grateful. I cordially invite the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, Minister Magdalena Gawin, to speak. Of course, I'm not gonna take your time, but please just politely: if you could just take a little bit longer, we wouldn't be here till hours. 1. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the government towards the presidential bill on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at the Royal Street in Warsaw. The planned reconstruction of these buildings will complete the process of organizing this important element of the Warsaw urban layout. For these reasons, the planned reconstruction should be conservationist and therefore as much as possible comply with the standards set out in the Warsaw Recommendation. This is the Warsaw Recommendation - I say this especially to Members of the Left concerned about the Venetian Charter and whether the tomb of the Unknown Soldier will be deleted or not. I haven't heard any more absurd. In any case, we are talking about the Warsaw Recommendation on the reconstruction and reconstruction of cultural heritage adopted by UNESCO in 2018, and this should be the basis for all actions. On the other hand, I wanted to say further from myself that reconstructions are always more or less emotional. The climate disaster and climate change did not prevent Germany from rebuilding the Potsdam palace or the Berlin castle. Dresden, Lower Saxony is being rebuilt. This is a trend that I think is happening all over the world. If we have a Warsaw Recommendation in which we also call on other countries that have been destroyed as a result of armed conflict or natural disasters, we say that they can now rebuild their monuments, it is really difficult to listen to a discussion in which the sense of preserving our heritage is questioned at all. There were also voices here that rebuilt objects could not be in the register of monuments, that they were not monuments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to invite all the Members to the Old Town for coffee. Well, you can't just say things like that when you're in Warsaw or when you're an MP living in Warsaw. Once again, it is very important for this reconstruction to refer to the achievements of Professor Jan Zachwatowicz and to the Polish conservation school of monuments. We can do it right. I thank these Members very much, above all, from the opposition, because we know that the Law and Justice support this project, which called for reasonableness and reasonableness. This is our business together, we can do That's good. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I just wanted to conclude by referring to a certain opinion expressed here by your marshal. Well, I wanted to assure everyone that the monuments of Warsaw... According to the Communist plan, the capital was supposed to be at all working in Łódź, because Bierut did not like Warsaw. I also wanted to assure everyone that Warsaw was rebuilt along with its heritage. In fact, Zachwatowicz broke the conservation doctrine, had many enemies, hated him by Sigalin. Twice he did great things: he negotiated with the Gestapo to return the plans of the Old Town and then negotiated with Bierut to rebuild the Old Town. But I wanted to assure everyone that Warsaw was rebuilt along with its heritage as a result of the efforts of conservators and inhabitants of Warsaw. Not thanks to the Communists, but despite the Communists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Beautiful, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Małgorzata Paprocka. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll also try not to use all the time. Since the issues raised by your Members have been repeated many times, you will allow me to address these issues in a block-by-block manner. The act presented by your President is the implementation of the 2018 President's commitment. Restoration of the Saski Palace, Brühl Palace and tenements at ul. The Royal is undoubtedly connected with the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. When the President presented his initiative a few weeks ago at Marshal Józef Piłsudski Square, he appealed to constitutional values, to the protection of our heritage, identity, talked about the historical and cultural values of this place, talked about a unique historical place related to our very difficult history and called for these solutions to be adopted over divisions. There's work to be done today. In fact, yesterday at the committee meeting, the draft law was discussed very thoroughly. Today there are doubts that we really discussed yesterday, but due to the importance of this law and this matter, you will allow Members that I will address these issues in a few words. The first issue is a very hot climate of consultation and the will of the Warsaw people, and more broadly, of all the citizens of our country, as regards the reconstruction of the Saski Palace and its neighbouring buildings. Yesterday, representatives of the social side, including the Saski 2018 association, were present at the committee meeting, and they called for various kinds of surveys, studies which, all of them, point to very broad support for the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. Royal. It was recommended, among others. for a survey carried out in Warsaw, where the reconstruction of the designated buildings was at the third place of investments desired by Warsawians, ahead of even the extension of the metro line. As to the participation of the M.S. Warsaw, ladies and gentlemen, this is a project with m.st. Warsaw has been consulted for many years. You may remember that in 2019 there was even a press conference attended by Marshal Karczewski and President Trzaskowski. For the preparation process of this project m.st. Warsaw was very intensively involved, including the fact that it submitted written comments to the project, the penny of which was included in this project, including the most important issue related to the exchange, expropriation and exchange of real estate - to this thread, will allow you, I will return. President of the M.S. Warsaw, according to the project, will be represented in all the bodies that will be set up by this law, also in the Council for Reconstruction - this is an expert body. As a result of the amendment yesterday, an additional member of the Council for Reconstruction is to be appointed by the Warsaw Council. The President's representative will be a member of the supervisory board of the special purpose vehicle set up to rebuild the investments we are talking about, as well as the special purpose company will have to consult the President's mandatory opinion. Warsaw. Therefore, it is very difficult to say that the project is not consulted, that the idea or idea is contrary to the position of the authorities of Warsaw. No statement by the authorities of Warsaw, and certainly not the documents that the President's Office has at its disposal, does not support this. Another very important issue: m.st. Warsaw is one of the main beneficiaries of this law. Apart from historical, identity, cultural value for Poles, Poles, Warsaw women and Warsawians, this is the city. Warsaw is also one of the main beneficiaries from the infrastructure side. After all, the project assumes not only the reconstruction of historical parts, but also the necessary Warsaw, especially in the center, construction and underground parking, and additional infrastructure. It's all coming directly from the project. From the information available to the public, it appears that in the budget m.st. Warsaw is not planning any funds for the reconstruction of the Saski Palace with its neighbouring buildings, therefore the project involves financing fully from the state budget, hence shifting decision-making issues - for many reasons, not only financial ones, but also because of the public objective for these investments. It is clear from the draft law that the buildings to be rebuilt are intended for the purposes of the Senate Chancellery, this issue has been consulted, among others. A few weeks ago, directly by Mr. President with Mr. Marshal Grodzki. These premises are to be assigned to the voivodship office and - which is very important, because this is also what you have asked several times - directly from the draft law it is necessary to allocate these rebuilt palaces to cultural and educational purposes. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this project is to create an open space for Warsawians, for Poles, because as we know, such open spaces for cultural and educational activities are missing in Warsaw. In several places you expressed concern for the grave of the Unknown Soldier. Thank you very much, because Minister Gawin has said so in this regard, but I would also like to stress with all determination that the tomb of the Unknown Soldier in the form it is in today's form is inviolable. Plans, which are related to reconstruction, assume to leave free space on the one hand and on the other hand, while keeping the communication between the square and the park. The proposed law therefore poses no threat to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. In addition, the question has been raised - I apologise, I do not remember which of your Members - of the state in which the historic period is planned to be rebuilt. This also follows directly from the draft law, where date 31 August 1939 is entered. Several of your fellow Members have also expressed their concern about issues relating to the Saxon park. I already appealed yesterday at the committee meeting, and let me repeat this appeal so that you do not mislead the public. There is no connection between the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements and the destruction of the Saxon park. Moreover, Mr President, this issue was very deep at heart, which is why the rules are directly introduced to the project - it is mainly about the article. 27 - according to which the Mazowieckie voivode will have the authority to order or exaggerate trees, or perform plantings in the same number. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the number of dozens of trees, a maximum of dozens, because this is due to the outline of the plots and the area that these buildings occupied before the destruction in 1944. The basement issues have also been discussed several times. There are no technical obstacles to reconcile the existence of historic cellars with underground parking lots and the necessary additional infrastructure. In the case of several statements by your Members, there were also votes in the draft concerning the very wide-ranging exclusion of the provisions of other laws. There are exemptions in the project, but they relate to those issues that regulate the project in detail - and I would like to emphasise in particular the issue of public procurement. The only exclusion of the law - Public procurement law refers to the designation of a special purpose vehicle as an investor, while the project does not provide for the exclusion of the Public Procurement Law in the execution of the investment - I would like to stress this with all my power. The issue of some kind of emotion is the remuneration of the management board and members of the supervisory board of the special purpose vehicle mentioned in the project. Ladies and gentlemen, the project refers in this respect to the Act of 9 June 2016 on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies. This law leaves forks, indicates how the base of dimension is calculated and indicates multiplier forks - from one to fifteen times. The President's initiative indicates the maximum remuneration of the board members at five times, the board members according to the project may not be more than three. On the other hand, with regard to the supervisory board, because there have been some contradictions here, there is no special regulation, and therefore if we look at the requirements of the Law on the principles of wage formation, it will be a maximum basis for a single-time dimension. Ladies and gentlemen! I will only refer to the question of additional consultations: as I mentioned, in addition to these consultations concerning the need and the willingness to rebuild these buildings, of course, there has been a consultation on this project with the entities that will carry out this process or are competent administrative authorities in this regard. As I mentioned, there was also a consultation with the Senate Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I hope that this argument has convinced you and has resolved the doubts surrounding this project, and this will allow for the support of this right and good presidential initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u158	Thank you very much. I invite the rapporteur, Mr Babinetz, from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister! Since the Minister has already answered all the substantive questions, I also spoke in my first speech about various historical circumstances, I think and hope that despite various criticisms, however, the vast majority of ladies and gentlemen will support this bill and that we will rebuild together the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements on the street. Royal. Especially since reconstruction will take many years, so I think it will be de facto a joint action in the future. One such remark, on the other hand. There were a number of proposals for antiquities conservation measures. I hope that if the Committee on Culture and Media, I think, with the support of the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, will seek to increase funds for the protection of monuments, as well as for the protection of monuments. at the Institute of Polonik, which, after all, spends funds also for reconstruction, protection, modernisation, renovation of Polish monuments, monuments of Polish culture outside the current borders of the Republic of Poland, the High Sejm will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u160	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science (Print No. 1345 and 1375). I would very much like to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, contained in print No. 1345. The report is contained in print No 1375. The government project entered the Sejm on 28 June, and on 7 July the first reading was held in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mr Wojciech Murdzek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science. He drew attention to the important role of vocational universities in the academic map of Poland and the considerable impact on regional development, especially visible in smaller urban centres. Most state higher vocational schools are located in cities that were voivodships in 1975. Undoubtedly, the success of these universities could be greater if not for a very happy name, i.e. a higher vocational school. A broad consultation with the scientific community of state higher vocational schools and local authorities indicated the need to change the name of these universities. The Ministry of Education and Science proposed the name "practical academy' to correct this image problem and to point out to secondary school graduates that these universities are academics. Minister Wojciech Murdzek also pointed out the criteria contained in the project on which the possibility of renaming depends. The following conditions should be met jointly: operate for a minimum of 10 years, have a minimum number of students - 250, of which at least 100 in fixed education, a minimum of 50% of academic teachers should be employed in that university as a basic place of work, have first or second degree studies or have a uniform master's degree in at least five courses, and provide training in at least one course of studies preparing for the pursuit of the professions referred to in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, or the course of studies ending with an engineering degree or an engineer master's degree. Let me just remind you that in the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 we have such professions as the profession of doctor, dentist, pharmacist, nurse, midwife, laboratory diagnostics, physiotherapist, paramedic, veterinarian, architect or teacher. Education standards shall be taken into account in study programmes in these fields. Last condition: no course of studies conducted by the university can be assessed negatively as a result of the Polish Accreditation Commission's assessment of the quality of education. In addition, the project contains provisions on the flexibility of teacher education. The professional university will be able to obtain permission to conduct preparatory studies for the profession of teacher without having to conclude an agreement with a university with a minimum level of B+ in the discipline to which the course of those studies is assigned. For this to happen, the university will have to meet the conditions for changing the name I was just talking about. I stress that she will have to meet all these conditions together. The draft law also addresses the problem of excessive financial burden on doctoral institutions. The current rules allow PhD students in doctoral school to work for research and grant projects and at the same time oblige them to pay a doctoral scholarship. The amendment excludes the right to receive a doctoral scholarship of at least 150% by doctoral students. the amount of the doctoral scholarship in connection with the implementation of grants. The proposed solution will eliminate the double burden on the PhD student and reduce the gap between the costs of the PhD student groups. In the course of the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, parts of the academic community have emerged, supported by some of the opposition Members, calling into question the validity of the proposed changes. The opinion was that allowing the name to be changed to the name "practical academy" and the flexibility of teacher education would lead to a reduction in the level of teaching. With these voices they polemicized, among others. Minister Wojciech Murdzek and President of the Conference of Rectors of State Higher Vocational Schools Prof. Dariusz Słowik. The latter, Prof. Rawik, stated that it is not true to claim that teacher education in state higher vocational schools is carried out at a lower level than in other types of university. At the same time, he pointed out that there are more practical activities in the WWSZ, which are so important in teacher education, among others. an obligation of 6 months of practice which does not exist in other such universities. On the other hand, the only institution authorised to assess the level of education is the Polish Accreditation Commission, which positively evaluates state higher vocational schools. He also pointed out that teaching courses are standardized courses, regardless of the type of university, strict requirements must be met. Professor Rawik, on behalf of the Conference of Rectors of State Higher Vocational Schools, gave a very positive assessment of the possibility of changing the name of the project, but he proposed that instead of the name "practical academy," the name "academy of applied sciences." This text was corrected by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and received the support of a majority of Members, members of the Education, Science and Youth Committee. The Commission rejected the amendments tabled by the Civic Coalition and adopted several editorial and legislative amendments. In conclusion, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth recommends the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law contained in print no. 1375. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u162	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first to speak, I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science contained in print No. 1375. First of all, I would like to say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the presentation of government primarily because of the very positive assessment of the achievements of higher education institutions. Such universities were established under the 1997 Act. The first nine were founded in 1998, the earliest one was the State Higher Vocational School in Tarnów. Currently there are 33 vocational schools in 14 voivodships and it will soon be a quarter of a century of their activity. During this time, the walls of these universities left thousands of graduates who completed their first degree, i.e. undergraduate, engineering, second degree, Master's degree, and uniform master's degree. A large number of graduates of these universities have gone to the local labour market, some have entered a different type of university, some have chosen an academic career. What is extremely important, these universities operate in smaller towns. As I said in my speech as rapporteur for the committee, most of these universities operate in the former voivodship cities, i.e. those that lost the status of the capital of the voivodship in 1998. The largest cities in which state higher vocational schools operate count slightly over 100,000. residents, and the smallest, like Walcz - 25 thousand. residents. For medium-sized cities, university possession is an element of prestige, but it is also extremely important due to the development of these urban centres. This is an extremely important development impulse and local authorities often very strongly support the functioning of these universities. I myself live in Gniezno, where since 2004 there has been a State Higher Vocational School. Cegielski's hippolith. I am watching and am also trying to support its development. It is extremely important from the point of view of a city such as Gniezno. Some of these universities are very strong in competition with universities operating in metropolitan areas. For example, the State Higher Vocational School in Chełma, which recruits the best high school graduates, who, for example, they want to take a flight training course because it leads a course of training which ends in obtaining an aircraft licence, a helicopter. He's also trained aerospace mechanics. From Warsaw, from Cracow, from Poznań has just willing young people who want to gain such a kind of education, extremely needed and very prestigious, also in financial terms. So these universities have actually been very successful. But there is a development barrier to these universities, some unfortunate wording, the use of the term "professional school." If at the upper secondary level the concept of "professional school" has been abolished and the term "professional school" has been introduced, then the fact that this concept is being used causes that some secondary school graduates for prestigious reasons, however, choose centres located somewhere further, because "professional school" somehow sounds in a way that does not encourage learning, even though the level of education in these schools is high. For this reason, many universities have asked the Ministry to change its name and hence this draft law, which introduces the possibility of changing its name to the applied science Academy. This is a request from the academic community of state higher vocational schools and we want to meet this request. We also support the flexibility of the requirements for teacher education and the solutions for doctoral pay. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the draft law in print No 1375. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u164	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Elżbieta Gapinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u165	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education, according to the applicants, is to enable universities with the status of a professional university and fulfilling certain conditions to use the term "Academia" - in the original proposal it was the name "Practical Academy" and after the amendment proposed in the first reading "Academy of applied sciences" - and to conduct studies preparing for the pursuit of the profession of teacher without having to have a cooperation agreement in conducting studies with a university having academic achievements in the discipline to which the course of these studies is assigned. The aim of the project was to distinguish those professional universities that meet certain conditions and to enable the name to be changed to "Academia." Many science-related backgrounds believe that there have been many doubts about this project. Critical comments were made, among others.: Polish Accreditation Commission, Polish Teachers' Union, Rectors' Conference of Universities and Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The allegations were mainly based on the fact that the name "Academia" should be given to universities with the highest quality of education in the fields of practical profiles that meet the requirements laid down in the Act, while the quantitative approach presented by the project depreciates the title of the Academy. Critical opinions indicate that vocational universities can achieve appropriate academic status through scientific development and that the proposed changes will not motivate this. In turn, the role of state professional universities in the development of local communities is in favour of the proposal. And here I agree with the Member who spoke before me. They respond to the sub-regional demand for educated, well-prepared professionals who meet the needs of the local labour market. In addition, as the rectors stated, the members of the Bureau of the Conference of Public Rectors of Professional Universities present at a meeting with the members of the Civic Coalition held yesterday, 20 July 2021, in the Seym, professional universities do not aspire to the status of academy within the meaning of the current law. This project, in turn, is a proposal that came out of their midst - they said that about 4 years they made this proposal - and a response to the demands of professional universities, so that the best of them can obtain according to the proposed parameters the status of applied sciences academy, which will highlight their rank on the market as a well-prepared university for the professions where students are educated. It should also be stressed that many of them have dual education and a large number of diploma work is implemented. And that's what makes these universities very positive. Universities work very well with local business, responding to labour market demand. The adoption of the name of the science Academy will also contribute to their positive reception in the socio-economic environment, which will probably result in their further rapid development. The rectors, who were present yesterday at the meeting, have just stressed that the kind of barrier to the development of these universities is what the honourable Member has already said, that it is indeed the professional name of many candidates who would like to study in their universities that is misrepresenting themselves. In addition, the Act applies six conditions which must be met in order to be able to use the name of the applied science Academy. The aim is to reserve the use of the name "Academy of Sciences' for a well-established university operating on the market for at least 10 years, having an appropriate number of students and scientific staff, which is at least 50% she is employed at a university and this is her basic workplace. We think it would be good if the latter criterion was raised to at least 75% But after talking to the rectors who pointed to the problems of getting staff, we consider them sufficient. The Civic Coalition Club has tabled amendments to the terms and conditions, including: an amendment that increases the number of students in higher education to at least 500, including 200 in stationary studies. Although we understand the arguments set out in the first part of my statement, pointing to certain risks associated with this amendment, we do want to give a chance to develop local universities strongly linked to the environment and training good professionals in the labour market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club will abstain. I'd like to pass on the amendments to the marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u166	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Marcin Kulask to present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Professionalisation of teacher education is in the interest of pupils, parents and teachers themselves. In the last few years, much has been done to develop modern teacher education standards. The government bill represents a major step backwards in this process. This time Minister Czarnek won't take us back to the Middle Ages, he won't take us back to the time of the Holy Inquisition, he won't take us back to the time when the young ladies practiced the virtues of a woman on a salary for the ladies of good houses. He only wants to take us back to the '90s of the last century. Could've been worse. This does not change the fact that the project is judged negatively by the Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences as destroying the achievements of Polish educators. In order for a university to be able to study in preparation for the profession of teacher, it must now conclude an agreement on cooperation in conducting those studies with a university with achievements in its scientific activities in a discipline which is subject to the direction of those studies. The Ministry wants selected professional universities to be exempted from the obligation to conclude this agreement. The consequence of this solution is the introduction of a new concept of practical academy into the legal circulation. [[Academies of applied sciences.]] This change appears to be incompatible with the Polish Qualifications Framework. According to the Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences, this seemingly technical change may threaten the interests of Polish graduates on the European labour market. Another element of labour regulation is the change in the rules for the remuneration of postgraduates participating in European projects. The de facto project leads to a reduction in the measures to be received by a PhD student. This is therefore a change in the wrong direction, striking the interest of young scientists' communities and should be rejected. In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposed submission contains unnecessary, anachronistic and potentially harmful regulations. Members of the Parliamentary Left Club will therefore vote against the adoption of the Government's submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u168	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u169	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendment of the Law on Higher Education theoretically assumes that vocational universities, popular PWSZ-ettes, which do not focus on scientific activity, but educate for the needs of the labour market, will be able to raise prestige by changing their name. Originally, the government proposed that they call themselves practical academy. At the committee meeting, however, the name of the applied science Academy was changed, which was proposed by the association of professional universities. Does this name reflect the nature of professional universities more? Not in my opinion. It only introduces additional confusion in the name of the university, which has been evolving for some time. Back in my day, when I was studying, everything was simple, everyone knew what a university was, what is a polytechnic, what is an economic or agricultural academy. I am therefore not surprised that the representatives of university rectors are also against this proposal. I believe that the quality of the university and its strength will not be achieved by changing its name, because it is an absolutely secondary issue. Today, this is not the primary problem of professional universities of this type. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please, fellow Members, allow Mr Klimczak to speak calmly. Universities need support, but they need a system-based approach to issues that are much deeper than those proposed in the amendment of the Act, in which only any support is simulated. The second problem that the Ministry of Education and Science cannot solve is the introduction of appropriate changes to the qualifications for teaching teachers. The change proposed by the government is that professional universities that meet certain conditions will be able to conduct teaching studies without agreements with academic institutions. Thus, the government in one move reduces the prestige of universities, which they wanted to guarantee by changing their names, and also exposes itself to widespread criticism of lowering teacher education standards. I know, of course, that some vocational institutions cannot sign the required agreements with academic institutions, which is an essential condition for teacher education. A lot has been said in the committee about how big a problem this is, but is this a good way to solve this issue? After all, this is not a permanent system solution, but it is an ad hoc action, it is a fire extinguisher. And one last remark about the PhD students. I fully agree with the position of young people who represented the post of PhD students during the committee meeting. I was a PhD student myself, I was a PhD student at the University of Warsaw, and I know exactly what problems young scientists are facing. The problems are huge, and in the largest, best universities in Poland, not to mention what docs, young scientists in smaller academic centres are experiencing. Today it looks like the government wants to save money on their PhD students. I don't think we should let that happen. Polish science, Polish young scientists need the support of the state, not the cut-off of the drip, which is often scholarships and grants for them. In addition, I believe that the proposed amendment differentiates between foreign and Polish PhD students. Foreign PhD students will be in a much better position. Therefore, the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives submits and submits appropriate amendments regarding the remuneration of PhD students and makes their acceptance subject to the support of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dziambor, who will present the position of the Confederate Group, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u171	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are playing a bit of rebranding, but I would like to remind you first of all that Polish universities unfortunately, when it comes to the quality of education, are not well against the background of world universities. I checked before our debate that the world's best Warsaw University ranked at this point in the fourth hundred, as far as the place is concerned, so that it looks a little weak. And that's what we should be debating, which is probably the basis for us right now, not what the universities are called. Indeed, as I said, we had a discussion in committee and the situation is clear. It's just rebranding, rebranding, which, of course, can be useful, because a professional academy, just like a vocational school, which was already converted into a professional school, may not be very familiar. As far as teachers are concerned, as a curiosity, I will present to you something that maybe not everyone knows, and Poles are watching and listening to us. In order to become an active teacher, you have to have a completed pedagogical course for professional teachers, if someone has not completed the pedagogical course, but to enroll in this pedagogical course you have to be an active teacher. It's a paradox. In this situation, a person who comes to school and wants to work as a teacher has the right education, qualifications, but has not completed a teaching course, so he probably can't work with young people, he can take this course. It shall provide the Director with a statement that during the school year he shall increase his qualifications by a completed pedagogical course. I had to sign this paper when I started working at a state school, being an English teacher with six years of experience or seven years of experience, but in the private sector. In the state sector, I was forced to take this course. I lost a whole year of Sundays and Saturdays of my life, going on completely useless, senseless activities, after which I got out stupider than I came in, because the bill predicted that I had to finish this course. I would think about having something like this on the occasion of talking about rebranding, because we're finally talking about universities that also train teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! We will support this as a gesture of goodwill, but we would prefer that the discussions and discussions in the committees concern the quality of education, not what universities are called, because for me there is no difference whether the university is called a vocational academy or a professional academy or a applied academy or a parabum, because it is all about what the person who comes out of there knows. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Michał Grammarka to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on Higher Education was adopted by the Sejm of the previous term of office from the presentation of the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Higher Education Jarosław Gowin with a rather moderate but nevertheless acceptance and approval of the academic community. Today, this right is to be amended in a way that, in our view, significantly undermines the quality of teacher education. Higher vocational schools, practical academies or applied sciences do not have to cooperate with universities with large scientific and research facilities, according to the authors of the amendment. Nor will they have to take advantage of their great experience in teaching also in pedagogical fields. The authors of the presentation try to convince us that they will be able to educate teachers of biology, chemistry without contact with the modern knowledge of prestigious universities. It's like they're going to say that they're just teachers, that they're just supposed to teach our kids. I don't get it. I don't buy it. As an academic teacher, I find it reprehensible. This amendment introduces another element, which in my view is even curiosable. One of the PiS geniuses from education invented that they would save a few zlotys by forbidding PhD students to carry out research projects paid by universities. What else is a recipe that deprives PhD students of a scholarship. I did my own doctoral studies, and I can't even believe it. After my selection and post-graduate qualification, I get a proposal from the university to take part in a research project and, as a result, I lose my scholarship. In reality, where universities receive funding for a doctoral school from a specific budget grant, and for the implementation of grants from a completely different source - from a competition, from agencies that finance research projects. Who even came up with this horrible idea? The implementation of each of the two main objectives proposed by the government of the amendment will affect the deterioration of the quality of studies and is in our anti-development assessment. This law is clearly harmful to Polish science, and thus to Poland. And although I have a certain sentiment for teaching because my mom was finishing this kind of study, there is no denying that it was over 50 years ago, and today it is the 21st century, and we should follow the challenges that this 21st century poses for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle will be presented by Mr Zbigniew Girzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is neither harmful nor harmful. It doesn't really change anything. It's all about changing names. It's a good thing if we look at the Polish science and development of the higher education system over the last 30 years or so... I had this experience on every level, because in 1992 and 1997 I was a student, then I was a doctoral student for four years, and for 20 years I was an academic lecturer. One by one, I obtained a doctor's degree, a habilitated doctor, and I was employed as a university professor. What happened at that time when it came to universities? Well, there were two models of action. One, image. Someone once came up with the idea that when you call something a university, it sounds so serious. It was therefore decided to transform into universities as much as possible. Medical and economic colleges have become medical universities and economic universities. Did this improve the quality of education? Not in any way. In a similar way, some dorms were dealt with in the same way. the adjective nature. Agricultural-technical or natural-technical colleges have also become universities, because it sounds better. Today's submission is exactly the same. We're not gonna change anything, but instead of a state college, there's gonna be a applied science academy, because it sounds better and students are more likely to come to college. This will not change anything for these students or about the quality of education. These are just names that will not change anything - believe me, I say this as an experienced lecturer - when it comes to the quality of education. What is the second element of education reforms? Strengthening the power of the rector and eliminating the autonomy of entities forming Polish universities. Today - especially after Prime Minister Gowin's act from last term - we have literally rectors of dictators. The Rector is a dictator at our university today to a large extent. Councils of the departments have basically been eliminated. Departments are completely facade structures today. Instead, discipline councils have been introduced with a completely different level of competence. Even large universities were transferred to a good case - I am an employee of one of the largest Polish universities - everything on the rector level. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the way to nowhere, believe me. If we want Polish education to work a little better, we do not need to make copies of Western solutions, image changes that do not bring anything. We need to give more power, autonomy to universities, help them expand their wings instead of creating solutions of a facade nature. I will recommend the Circle of Polish Cases to abstain from voting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. 17 people signed up. Would any of you like to join this list? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Barbara Nowack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Another project, which on the one hand is right, because it would be good if Polish society, schools in smaller towns... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, can you stop talking when another Member asks a question? The honourable Member is mostly insulting his fellow Members, so perhaps it is better that he leaves. It is a controversial project, because on the one hand it is absolutely necessary to strengthen local education. For small towns and communities, a good professional school is an opportunity to develop, it is an opportunity to invest, it is an opportunity to build a knowledge-based local society. On the other hand, do you really need to do hockey-clots in names? Is it really necessary to destroy an orderly legal system, a certain order of thinking for young people about what school is? I'm sure the project could be much better, but unfortunately the government won't listen to the opposition again. They listen to parts of the environment (the bell), and they don't see a wider interest. I have a question about this poster with the PhD students: Is it wiser and better? Yes, you can. So I expect the Ministry to leave the PhD students alone and take care of their interests as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u178	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! It is not difficult to notice that this project arouses emotions, I would say: so-called. mixed impressions. On the one hand, we all realize that there are really good vocational schools that deserve this new name. On the other hand, we are afraid that this name will also soon be given to schools that are very weak, very small and are actually based only on blind education. Hence the proposal of our amendments, which are to introduce some quantitative criteria, which allow us to conclude that this university is not some place to which employees and students come for 3 days for the weekend, and practically during the week it does not exist at all, but that it does indeed apply to universities with a certain prestige, a certain established position. That is why we want to ask quite clearly why you have lowered the student numbers (Bell) and the number of employees, rather than introducing rules that make it a school with a certain position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u180	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u181	Mr Kulasek spoke about the wrong sides of this project. I wanted to ask you about a natural opportunity for me. The point is to think about the medical departments on the occasion of the changes in this bill. I am a Member of Czestochowa land. My university - once a higher education school, then an academy, now Jan Długosz University - has been applying for a medical department for many years. Amendments to Article are planned. 206 of the Act, i.e. the absence of a requirement to have the powers to grant a doctor's degree. Amendments to Article are planned. 53 laws, i.e. that they could obtain the privileges of higher education institutions that have the scientific category A+, A, B+. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question to the Minister: Is it possible in the article? In paragraph 53, the following paragraph is added: 6 add point 6a so that this can also apply to discipline in medical sciences or health sciences, which would allow - not directly - but would shorten the way to opening a medical or dental department? That's the problem. Not just in Czestochowa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u182	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of amending this law is an example of the pissing of reality. Changing the name itself will not improve the quality of education, which was best illustrated by changing the name of primary, vocational and vocational schools to professional schools. And what did that do? In addition, there are doubts about the provisions concerning the training of the teacher. Please answer the questions. Will there be any specific changes in the way the name is changed? Will university equipment be increased or the quality of education improved? Don't you think that the lack of a cooperation agreement in conducting teacher studies with a university with academic achievements in a given field will not adversely affect the level of new teaching staff? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u184	Thank you very much. I now ask Elizabeth Gapińska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Does this bill raise our doubts? Probably. We expressed these doubts as the Civic Coalition at first reading, asking questions both to the Ministry and to the rectors of professional universities about why this is what takes shape. But we also met with the rectors of these universities because we did some work between one meeting of the Sejm and the first and the second reading. We talked to the rectors of vocational universities, who also pointed out very strongly how needed these universities. Besides, I think we know that because in practically every law of the electoral district, at least one such university exists and works. However, it is undoubtedly that we have doubts about some of the criteria that are contained in this law, which must be fulfilled in order to have this name: the Academy of Sciences used. Therefore, I would like to ask why the number of students studying at the university is to be 250 (the bell), of which at least 100 students studying at the university? Why is the threshold so low? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u186	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice has systematically laid the leg of Polish science for 6 years. It is so effective that it decided to take another step and reduce the possibility of scientific development of young scientists. Solutions to make it impossible to get a scholarship as a PhD student... [[That is not true, sir. That's not true.]] ...it's nothing more than an approach to the situation in an uncomfortable way from those who would create it, but also, above all, a saying: you're not needed. [[Read this...]] Doctoral students and staff who will in the future constitute the foundation of Polish science should be supported by the government, and anything that could limit these rights should be blocked. Our responsibility here in the Sejm is to support universities, and I have the impression that the solutions we propose do nothing to themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u188	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! One of the state's higher vocational schools operates in Jelenia Góra. I know this school well because I was one of the creators and I was trying to make it happen as soon as possible. I know her strengths and problems. He's got a great base, and he's got good conditions for teaching. I think it's a good thing that, in order to change the name of the state-owned vocational school that we have just received, the absolute misunderstanding of practical academy has been abandoned, because it's important for young people what the university is called. It's not true that it's not important. But my question is something else: Will these universities, which will be called the Academy of Applied Sciences, be able to carry out research and enrich their achievements? I'm asking because some of them already have scientific achievements. And will they get (the bell) money from the Minister for this purpose? Please give me a specific answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Franciszek Sterczewski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Departure Minister Black! Minister Czarnek is a man who should never perform any serious function, and especially be responsible for millions of students, students, teachers and teachers, because at this point he is only responsible for their suffering. He uses a disgusting language that hurts people. Without scruples, he fulfills the task of destroying the school and subjugating its ideology only to the right. It is a sad fact that the school under the right hand rule in Poland will never be great. But why does it have to be the place the kids want to run away from? I would like to express my sincere thanks to Minister Czarnek. There was no policy in contemporary history of Poland that would motivate young people to act and oppose power. What a joke to the side. Przemysław Czarnek to resign! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u192	Thank you very much. Is Mr Jan Szopiński in the room? There isn't. So Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk will ask the question. There isn't any either. [[Voice from the courtroom: On dwarfs.]] We would like to ask Mr Maciej Chase.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we can read that the purpose of the proposed amendments, including the change of name to applied science academy, is to distinguish those vocational universities which meet certain conditions concerning the education of students. As an academic teacher, I know many of these universities and I can confirm that in many cases they are very good places for training in practical knowledge at engineering level, and the equipment of their laboratories sometimes embarrass even renowned technical universities. That's, among other things. Today's National Higher Vocational School in Chelm. But will changing that name, changing the name of such a university change anything here? These colleges have earned their own reputation. However, I have one question, one question about this law. In the project we can read that the name: applied science academy can be used after the university meets a number of requirements. Why, in the case of (the bell) the university's cessation of fulfillment using the words in its name: the academy of teachings applied to these conditions will still be able to use this name? It's completely incomprehensible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Professional universities in Poland play an important role in the socio-economic development of individual regions and local communities. In Wielkopolska, such universities operate in Gniezno, Pile, Konin, Leszno and Kalisz, and it can be said that thanks to their actions so far they deserve to develop further. This solution offers such an opportunity, but there are certain concerns. These concerns concern, among others. the fact of teacher education without the need to agree with universities. I would like to ask how many vocational universities in Poland so far this leads to training for teachers just in agreement with universities prepared for this. The second point concerns the same issue (the bell) as regards non-public universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u196	Thank you very much. If you allow it, Mrs Fabisiak is in order now, unless Mrs Fabisiak does not mind, as Mr Fabisiak is already on the floor... [[There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u197	Yeah, 'cause I'm already there. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, Member. Just a quick question. I believe that the development barrier of state higher vocational schools is not just a name. I think we'll all agree on that. That is why I ask the Ministry whether it is planning further steps towards strengthening such universities, their development, their potential, which is extremely important, because we all know that there is a great shortage of teachers in vocational subjects and that this will deepen. And one last thing. What about those vocational schools that won't be named again? Doesn't this bill cut their wings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u198	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing we're discussing this bill. This is a term for schools that did not always represent a very high level, which was not well associated with universities, especially since all over the world vocational schools are widely respected schools and, most importantly, providing the most patents. And we need new patents, new inventions and grants, and all of this will be done by universities, so very well. All the more so because they are primarily active in areas that are far away from the big cities. That's a big one, too, plus this case. On the other hand, I would like to ask you one thing, and here I ask the applicants and the ministry to answer the criteria. Are these criteria clearly formulated? Because at some point there will be a division and these schools will be awarded the title of academy, and others will not, because they will not meet the criteria (the bell). So are these criteria clear and unambiguous? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u200	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As we all hear here, this bill causes some anxiety, dissatisfaction. One of the reasons is that this bill came out of nowhere at all. I have a question for the Minister. Were there any consultations, conversations and whether it was an invention Just a minister, or maybe an expectation of professional school environments? That's the first question. Second question I have. There is concern that there will be a degradation of higher education. Does this law really mean that we can say that the level of education will be lowered? I also have a question about how many different types of higher education corporations (the bell) held positions. And I have a question for the rapporteur: What were the arguments and conclusions on this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u202	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u203	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We're actually focusing mostly on changing the name here, but I'd like to ask you something else. The proposal provides for the addition of those provisions which will enable professional universities to fulfil the conditions set out in the Act, to conduct preparatory studies for the pursuit of the profession of teacher without having to have an agreement with higher education institutions, so to speak. And indeed we all realize that already many places in Poland are beginning to lack well-educated teachers. This is particularly true for science teachers. I have a question, Minister: How will these changes contribute to the fact that more teachers will be educated and that there will be a much higher level of knowledge and practical skills of teachers who will leave these schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u204	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to overestimate the role of current state higher vocational schools. So far, the offer on the prospects of development was more about schools in larger centres, while the remaining schools remained on the sidelines. This is, in my opinion, a developmental offer, and these schools mainly educate engineers, bachelors, masters in professions, which are very often lacking in areas where these universities operate. In the case of larger universities, graduates often stay in larger centres, while here (the bell) are on site and work here. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u206	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Arthur Łącki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I came into this debate when Mr Girzyński spoke about his issue, and I listened to him talking about the rectors of dictators, about the lack and limitation of self-government in schools, about disciplinary councils instead of the board of the department, and I thought to myself what he was talking about. I think I know what he was talking about. I think he was talking about justice in Poland, where instead of the Minister of Justice and besides, the Attorney General, we have one and the same person, which is such a wash and go. After the reform we have the neo-KRS, in addition to shortening the legislative process and the judicial process, and in addition to self-government we have the Disciplinar Chamber. Everything you touch is ruined. Everything you touch, you try to deprive self-government. And you're trying to do all this for your party-political interests. My question is this: Minister, when will Polish universities, at least the best ones, be not in the fourth and fifth hundred rankings of the university, but in the second one, and will they knock on the first hundred of the world's top universities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u208	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this speaker there were words of concern about the level of higher education in Poland, but also about the level of national education. This level of national education and higher education has been underestimated by definition, because Minister Czarnek, the Minister of both educational departments, has been appointed Minister of Education - the absolute kuriozum. He was a man who, being a Lublin voivode, gave medals to local government officials, to the people he encouraged, and encouraged them to fight against the LGBT environments. Discipline is one of the most important educational measures - these are the words of the Minister of National Education and Higher Education. It is difficult to properly take a substantive discussion about the state of the law, which of course has its weaknesses and also has its advantages. One of these fundamental weaknesses is the reduction of [[♪ The bell ♪]] cash in the case of PhD students. Get out of this. And please also protest against such a psychic figure as Minister Czarnek. This is about your responsibility and your dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes Question Time. Now please take the floor of Mr. Wojciech Murdzek... [[Voice from the room: Murdzka.]] ...sorry, Murdzka - I am so sorry - Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few general comments that raise certain recurring questions. The basic thing is that the law was created in close contact mainly with interested universities, universities of a professional nature, until these latest amendments were introduced. This is therefore the answer to the need for the environment. For this environment, names are also extremely important. We changed the name of the higher vocational school in Kalisz individually, even last year, to academy. Indeed, the university has developed its position as a university. On the other hand, the decision concerned a change of name and the university itself remained a professional university. This is one example. Second line. We do not create this law any new category of higher education. Those universities that change their name will continue to be higher vocational education institutions. And this is extremely important. Another thing that has repeated in the debate: it must be very clear that not a single sentence in the Act refers to the standards of teacher education, while reducing these standards. The latest amendment to the law on teacher education standards is the 2018 amendment. At that time there were corrections, regulations on teacher education standards. There is no slightest change in this area, and therefore the proposals in relation to the alleged reduction of the standard are unenforced, they have nothing to do with this project, because the law does not refer to the standards of teacher education. On the other hand, it responds to something that could threaten very far-reaching consequences. The point is that some of the higher vocational schools currently training teachers - whether on the basis of these dozen agreements with academic institutions or actually on the basis of a certain history - could, under the current regulations, recruit teachers for training courses from 2022 to 2023 and later, legal emptiness. Later, they couldn't actually make calls and do what they're doing right now, and some of them are doing it very well. I wouldn't risk undermining their work, because teachers, graduates of these schools, teach our young people, our children, and they do it right. Therefore, the law allows these universities to continue their well-fulfilled mission without feeling threatened. However, the practice of relations with universities is very diverse. There are agreements that are in part dead, and this potential is not exploited, and there are universities that have not concluded agreements, and through the activity of their researchers they use their relations with universities to raise education standards, to educate as best as possible. Therefore, this corset, which paralyzes them slightly, will be able to loosen up under these solutions. And we realize that as long as there may be more than enough teachers in certain areas, e.g. at primary school level, all this indicates that in vocational education, and vocational schools specialize in such a sectoral response to the needs of the regions, these teachers will need the most in the coming years. And we can't not get past that move... The point is not to repeat the story of the need for doctors, in which case we realized too late that something had to be done there once, to make things better. It's even a number. As I say - quality will not hurt, because there is no option here that would indicate this risk, while the number, especially of teachers in the sector, is extremely important. One more question about quality. Of course, there is no slightest threat here, moreover, it is underlined that one of the key criteria is the lack of a negative assessment of the Polish Accreditation Board, because this is indeed very important in terms of quality. All these universities - both before and after the entry into force of the law - will continue to be subject to the assessment of the Polish Accreditation Commission according to uniform standards for the European Higher Education Area. Therefore, there is no risk or risk that quality could be harmed in any way. That was Mr Zdzisław Wolski's question. The Minister of Health, in conjunction with our ministry, has prepared a project that makes medical training more flexible. I think that this will fully respond to the Member's request. Indicators that are specified in the Act are not absolutely understated. These are indicators that we discussed in various ways with public and private professional universities. We have repeatedly tested them, simulating certain solutions in the POL-on network. All indicators are unambiguous and are available for download in the POL-on system, i.e. they have been codified. We look backwards, and therefore it is not possible to be a good university every month, so these concerns are not justified either. But is this a pro-quality, developmental perspective for these schools? Absolutely. As you know, we have a dedicated project for these universities in Law 2.0. A dydactic initiative of excellence. Every year 15 universities not only win in this ranking, but each university that wins gets an additional 1 million PLN at its own disposal at its own discretion. This amount may also be allocated to these scientific studies, to apparatus, as appropriate. Moreover, this year we expanded this group by another 10 universities that qualified for the programme in preparation for the initiative of excellence, i.e. the total financial bonus also received 25 universities. That's a very specific signal, too. Of course, if the university, using autonomous subsidies... It is clearly counted, but later the university authorities make decisions and can allocate funds to R &amp; D. There are professional universities, for example. in Kalisz, who gained through these activities the right to give doctoral degrees in two directions. I think it's a good thing, of course, that there are desires for us to be in the top 100. I probably would have to make an appointment with the interested parties for a separate meeting, because the question of the presence of our universities in rankings is actually a challenge on the one hand, because I would like each of us to be the best. But let me remind you that we also need to realize that the first 400 seats are the first 400 seats of 20,000. universities that participate in these rankings, i.e. it is unsatisfying when it comes to our ambitions, but we cannot depreciate it, say that it is some tragic picture that we do not know what is wrong. These universities, which today do not meet the conditions, but meet these conditions, will, of course, be able to benefit from statutory decisions in the future. There's one more thing that's important. Of course, it is not that the PhD student writes his own grant and gets great bonuses right away. This is teamwork, which is also of a special nature in the international dimension. Therefore, we want this solution not to reduce - and this risk has been and is signalled not only by universities but also by institutes - interest in grants. The Rector has yet to deduct from the grant, let's say, part for the PhD. When you add it up, it's at big universities. These are already significant amounts, and we want to make it interesting. And the PhD student who's gonna choose... A PhD student can choose a grant or a scholarship. The differences are jumping, i.e. in the first stage the PhD student receives a scholarship of over 2 thousand, after the first qualitative evaluation process - over 3 thousand. In the case of grants, however, this level is more than 7 000. And higher. Therefore, it is certainly better when compared to those times when, due to previous solutions, PhD students lived poorly, because they have financial stability, and can have even better, they can choose. It is clear, however, that we also do not care about building a great deal of tension between those PhD students who participate in grants and those who do not participate. Let me remind you that this solution concerns the requirement to conclude a grant contract with a PhD student. It's not that loose, it's closer to indeterminate money, it's about stability, it's about good money. A PhD student can choose. We're not going back here. We're not taking anything from anyone. It's a conscious choice of whether or not you're participating in a grenade, you make serious money. Those who do not have such opportunities can also have a stable situation at a lower level, which is also important, because these scholarship solutions for doctoral students were not before, and universities should be interested in activities in obtaining further grants, because this gives an opportunity for an increasing group of young PhD students, young scientists. There's one more thing. Mr Maciej Lasek asked about the name. If universities lose these privileges, it will be like in all higher education at the moment, that we do not go backwards, that is, how one of the renowned universities would no longer be renowned, until the removal and liquidation takes place, it can use these names. These are pros and cons. We hope that there will simply be no such cases, or rather there will be cases of adding further vocational schools to the applied science academy group. I seem to have answered most of the questions. I'm just checking out if there's anything else... [[Criteria, criteria.]] Please? [[Criteria.]] Criteria - I already said that unambiguously, with POL-on drawn, disbanded. We simulated it as if we'd picked it up too hard. I'm gonna say that there were even initiatives that would end up in three colleges. The decision is no, but it has to be an important group. But another way of converting, too low, showed that these universities could be much more, and then the quality picture was depreciated. So that in this sense, as I say, a few approaches have been and indeed discussions have been, how to choose these criteria, in order to achieve a compromise between quality and the creation of an important group that can benefit from this benefit. To conclude, this is a free choice of universities, which is to create opportunities, while decisions whether to use this name will be taken by the university authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u212	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all Members who are taking part in the debate. A large proportion of the votes were substantive. The temperature of this debate was much lower than what was happening at first reading in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. It seems that the arguments that were presented, the rations that represented the professional university environment, have been made to a large number of Members. I think that today's debate also contributes to this. I am cautiously optimistic that the entire High House will support this very, very good bill. Here was the question of Mr Kazimierz Moskal to me about the position of the Committee of Pedagogical Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences or the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland in relation to this draft law. Indeed, this part of the academic community expressed some doubts, particularly as to the use of the name "Academia" and the possible deterioration of the quality of teacher education. These doubts have, I think, been resolved during the debate. Although I am also realistic and I see here an element of competition among different types of universities. Universities associated with the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland feel to some extent threatened by competition from professional universities. And here, the more I hear denials about the fact that the name doesn't matter, the more I am convinced that the name does matter. The use of the term "academy of applied sciences" will have a very positive impact on the attractiveness of such universities, which could, of course, mean less or less admission to universities or polytechnics. But I think that in science it is very valuable, competition is extremely important and one type of university cannot be put in such a situation that at the starting point they have a worse position. I think that this project equals opportunities and will contribute to improving the quality of teaching in all types of Polish universities. So that I am convinced that you, too, will see these very positive elements contained in this project. Once again, I propose that the High House adopt this bill. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 42 hrs. 14 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour (prints No 1342 and 1364). I ask Mr Kacpra Płażyński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Joint Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on 7 July, a governmental draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour was considered. No amendments were tabled. The project was considered positively without any objection. I therefore request the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Leszek Dobrzyński to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u217	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Law on amending the Law on Maritime Labour. Ladies and gentlemen! In short, this bill improves the comfort and safety of seafarers' work. This law is the consequence of international agreements and amendments to those agreements. Of course, Poland joined these agreements in 2015. This law is also based on some practical comments regarding the pursuit of the profession of seafarer, which have already taken place over the last few years. This law concerns inter alia. the piracy problem. It protects seafarers by increasing the continuity of the employment contract and wages also for the time of possible detention by the kidnappers until repatriating to the place that the sailor wishes. This is a big and very important change. This law also changes the settlement time from 6 months to 1 month. It also includes changes in the recognition and issuing of health certificates, as well as in the issuing of sailing books and entries to them. These changes, in turn, result in considerable flexibility in terms of the possibility of concluding various contracts, the possibility of taking up work. This makes it easier for all the procedural and administrative activities that are related to health certificates and sailing books. Finally, it is worth mentioning that this law aligns the situation of crews, seafarers working on conventional ships - of course conventional according to the understanding of certain laws - with those who are not included in these concepts, i.e. working on tugs, floating cranes, dredgers and other specialised units. In our opinion, it is this is a much-needed change, a much-needed law, which can actually be very useful for seafarers in their extremely difficult work. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u219	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law on amending the Maritime Labour Act is primarily intended to improve the workers' rights of seafarers whose ships have been attacked. In general, it must be said that these issues which are raised in this project concern the implementation of the amendments to the Polish law resulting from the amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention. I would like to stress and draw attention to the fact that the changes that have been proposed in the project concern, inter alia, the following: extending the validity of maritime employment contracts for that period which is linked to the possible detention of seafarers on board as a result of acts of piracy or armed assault on a ship. Moreover, the project assumes that the ship owner is obliged to pay in the event of holding the seafarer with adequate remuneration and benefits resulting from a maritime employment contract. It is worth noting that the bill also provides for an extension of the rights that a seafarer obtains to be repatriated free of charge when a ship is attacked. It should be noted that the proposed law amends the law that governs and clarifies it, which is currently in force. It is worth noting that a certain change of definition is being made in the case of shipowners, seafarers or so-called. a non-conventional vessel, but a change is also made which concerns the changeover from the euro to the gold, with fees for the issuing of sailing books by the directors of maritime offices. I think these are issues that are not controversial in any way. It should be said that they are needed and will in these difficult and often very bad situations serve seafarers who should be paid in situations that are not dependent on them. Since we are talking about maritime work and you are a minister, I would like to remind you that maritime work issues are not just issues arising from this law. Recently, at the meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee, we have discussed the situation of people who also work at sea. We were talking about the Marine Search and Rescue Service, and we need to say from this stand in the Sejm that their situation is getting worse. Our great concern is that maritime search and rescue workers, those who care about the safety of people at sea every day, receive less money because their salaries have been reduced. Of course, there was a fund that was taken away, but it is a clear deterioration of the working conditions that those responsible for security have so far had. From this information it appears that the Minister of Finance does not want to agree to such matters, and I think that it is from this House that a clear and loud voice should come from the Sejm that the situation of these people must be improved, that the safety of people at sea cannot be spared. I am convinced that these are the actions that are needed, and when we talk about work at sea, we should also pay attention to this. Although this issue may not be directly enshrined in this bill, we must remember these people. In conclusion, I would like to point out that those issues which have been included in the draft law, which concern the implementation of these amendments, which result from the amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention, are changes that are needed and will serve seafarers. Let's hope they never have to use them, because there will be no such thing as assault on the ship and piracy. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I declare that this bill will be supported by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Dariusz Evening, who will present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are indeed debating a draft amendment to the Maritime Labour Act. Laws are very important, especially for those regions of Poland, which lie by the sea, which on a daily basis deal with this type of work and have many inhabitants who work on ships. Generally, the direction of this law is good, but this is the minimum that could be introduced in this law, because the truth is that we thought that indeed the Ministry and the government would start to work seriously on the law, which, first of all, will cause Polish ships to sail under the Polish flag. Unfortunately, today you can say that actually 4% or 5% The entire Polish fleet sails under the Polish flag, because the rest is registered somewhere in Panama, the Bahamas or the famous San Escobar, and it is in my opinion and in our opinion the whole problem that this law should solve. Undoubtedly, the MLC Convention is being implemented by this law, and those provisions that are there in this Convention have emerged. Indeed, it improves the situation of seafarers, but does not solve all the problems that we are talking about here, connected, for example, with the Polish flag and with the Polish law, which would apply, also as regards the labour matters of Polish seafarers. Of course, the provisions of this law concerning the right to a pension in the event of a loss of health go in the right direction. Of course, this is the protection of workers' rights with regard to piracy, which is now actually happening worldwide. It would seem that these cases would be less during the pandemic period, but it turns out that there were more than one year before the pandemic. Therefore, this is a good direction, the Act also defines issues related to the ship owner and defining who is the sailor, who is the person, who is the employee. On the other hand, a certain surprise may arise from one thing, namely what I am talking about: narrowing the law only to fundamental changes. First question: Is the government even working to get Polish ships back under the Polish flag? The second point is the issue of public consultation. Of course, there are dozens of entities addressed to the bill for consultation, and to our surprise only the Maritime Academy in Szczecin has tabled two amendments. So we have the impression that, unfortunately, when it comes to public consultations, they did not take place in the form in which they should take place. Perhaps for a short time, if we are talking about a serious approach to such a draft law and such changes, which will cause Polish sailors to sail on Polish ships, under the Polish flag and will sail under the labour law in force in Poland. The Act does not solve issues relating to the social security of seafarers, because this is an eternal problem that has existed for many, many years. With regard to pension contributions, workers' rights in respect of seafarers, this law does not solve anything. The same is true of the issue of paying taxes, because these are fees for swimming on foreign ships, in foreign countries - these are things that should also find a solution and, above all, require more consultation. In addition, the issue of naval practice, because we train many young people, but not only in the academy of the sea - we train computerists, cooks, people dealing with various things and it is important that they also have the opportunity to practice on ships and have rights like any sailor, because the apprentice or person who is on the ship is de facto a sailor. So there are a number of things (the bell) unfortunately not included in this bill. Of course, the Left Club will vote in favour of this bill, but we will ask the Minister and the Polish Government to start a serious consultation on the amendment of this law, so that Polish ships return to the Polish flag and that Polish sailors function as employees under Polish law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will now present the position of the Polish Confederation's Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u223	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the project is not controversial, nor is it a great revolution in maritime work. Its substantive scope is not too broad, it concerns the amendment to the Polish Law of 5 August 2015 on Maritime Labour, the amendments resulting from the amendments to the International MLC Convention on Maritime Working Conditions. So here we have the implementation of international law, but such a pleasant implementation of not forced EU decrees, but something that is something that many states that practice maritime transport agree with. The essence of the project is among others. the consistent protection of seafarers who have been detained as a result of acts of piracy and armed assault. So that this regulation is positive, the standards of working at sea under the Polish flag should be at the highest global level, we cannot be delayed in this respect, we must be an attractive employer. I cordially wish all seafarers that the regulations provided for in the event of bad, dangerous experiences remain unused, because that would be best. But on this occasion I would also like to draw attention to the issue raised in this law, namely safety at sea, acts of piracy and in contrast to the current state of the Polish Navy. Some say the Navy's sinking, others say it's already drowned. I'm sure the sailors are surprised to buy the Abrams. It is a huge expense, a powerful investment, it is a thread, a topic for another debate, whether it is reasonable, necessary and whether it is actually composed with the Polish Armed Forces. In the context of this deep investment in land forces, and the forgetfulness of the Navy, which includes: guarding the safety of waterways, and let us remind you that about 45% of the goods arrive by sea, so half joke, half really hope that the purchased Abrams tanks, which will most likely sail to Poland by ocean and sea, will not be taken over by pirates, drowned and will not have to pay the ransom for them. So that I recommend this to the Polish government for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u224	Thank you very much. This list of Members has been exhausted. Let's get to the questions. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Mr Marek Rutka, Left, will be the first question to be asked. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] If there isn't, then Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There it is. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr Łącki is always at the station.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the occasion of this bill, I wanted to ask again about the Sar sailors, Minister. I would like to remind you once again that the seafarers responsible for rescue operations in the Baltic Sea have received salaries which do not correspond to the knowledge and skills needed to carry out the tasks properly. According to the information provided by the Secretary of State, which is by you, at our 47th committee meeting, it appears that the wages of seafarers have decreased. SAR is the result of the liquidation of the prize fund and there is a dispute between the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Funds and regional policy as to the amount of funds allocated to the remuneration of SAR seafarers. My question is: Has this dispute been resolved? Will the SAR sailors receive a salary corresponding to their knowledge and tasks? And the most important question, Minister. Already in May, you took away the SAR 5%. their salary. Not only do these people make little money, they've been cut by 5%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] May. I ask on their behalf when this money will be returned to them, because it is, Minister, their money, not yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u227	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ships of Polish shipowners sail today under different flags: Liberia, Panama, Cyprus or Malta. You personally announced the creation of such regulations and the preparation of such a bill which will restore Polish ships to the Polish flag. And we know that ship owners are doing this because it's just building another competitive position. It's all about the issue of employee insurance contributions. About two years ago, you announced in the journal, perhaps even the father of Director Rydzyk, that such a bill is ready for these actions to be implemented. I would therefore like to ask how many ships belonging to Polish shipowners since then changed their flag from foreign to Polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u228	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In relation to this project, I have a question: Are all possible terrorist attacks, including cyberattacks and chemical and biological attacks, carried out on a floating vessel within the concept of piracy? If so, on what basis do the authors of the project assume that the above. events cannot occur on unconventional ships sailing within Polish territorial waters? And in the event of piracy, full protection of seafarers sailing on such vessels shall be excluded. I will be obliged to the Minister for his written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u231	Minister! Continuing Mr Marchewka's question on the Polish flag: I am interested in such a subject as whether you have as Ministry an analysis of how much revenue the Polish economy loses due to the fact that Polish ships are registered in foreign countries. Because as experts say, it's a few billion, ok. PLN 4.5 billion. Second question: Is the Ministry carrying out statutory work on a bill that allows ships to be restored to the Polish flag? Because that's what the announcements were. If such works are carried out, when do you want to present a bill in the Polish Parliament so that it can be discussed and such a bill adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u232	Thank you very much. And a little late - but there you go - Mr Marek Rutka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u233	Thank you so much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Issues related to maritime safety are important and it is good that the procedated amendments to the Maritime Labour Act affect these matters. However, maritime safety cannot be considered selectively or individually. Of course, this should be done on a systematic basis. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the difficult human and financial situation in the Maritime Search and Rescue Service SAR. As the Minister knows perfectly well, I use and will use every opportunity to call for the improvement of the pay conditions of this key maritime safety work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u234	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of Mr Mark Grybarczyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs, all the Members, very warmly for supporting this law. It is extremely important precisely because of working at sea. First of all, when it comes to pirate events, we've had two events in recent times. In one case, the sailors were abducted, and in the other case they were able to save them. They saved themselves using the appropriate space on the ship. To answer your questions: it is obvious to us that SAR, i.e. The rescue and search service plays an extremely important role and the wage raising process has already begun. Let me just remind you that it was stopped by our predecessors, so the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL when no salary was raised. This process has been launched by us. The problem resulting from the suspension of the premium concerned the entire official sector in the Polish State, and this has therefore also been stopped. On the other hand, our goal is to unlock this fund, but also to gradually raise the remuneration of employees. There is also a programme for the modernisation of the SAR service: it is more than 500 million, which will come in the near future, i.e. in the nearest financial perspective, mainly on equipment, improvement of working conditions and above all on the ability of the SAR service to escape. The Act on Employment on Maritime Commercial Ships is now ready. We have presented this to the tripartite team and, as you know, because you are also participating in these negotiations, there is no agreement between the employee and the shipping party. A worker - I am talking here primarily about trade unions. It is about participating in social protection costs, social contributions. That's the main reason for not continuing. On the other hand, our goal is absolutely to bring the ships back under the Polish flag. On the other hand, in such a form as is proposed by one or the other party, on the one hand, from the shipping side it will not change much, on the other hand, cause the bankruptcy of all our shipowners. This is the main reason, above all, for the difficulties concerning this law. Cyberattacks do not fall within the scope of this law. Here we are talking above all about the safety of seafarers, if they have already been kidnapped or kidnapped, so cyber attacks do not have that effect, at least directly, although they are absolutely pirate acts. Of course, the other questions are related to the previous ones. Of course, when it comes to the return of ships to the Polish flag, how many ships were asked by Mr Marchewka, these ships cannot now go back to the Polish flag, because this threatens to bankrupt Polish shipowners in particular. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u236	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters (Prints No. 994 and 1309). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, print No 994. Your Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading on 9 March 2021. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 23 June 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm shall adopt the attached draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Mark Ast to speak and present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters from Print No. 994 and 1309. The draft is, of course, the execution of the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is not controversial, as shown by the work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, where the first reading took place and where the project was procedated. The project itself consists in covering the expenditure of the Treasury also electronic reproving proceedings, i.e. through the Senate project, through this Senate submission, in this way the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will be executed. In addition, a second article was inserted during the committee's work, where it simply covered... It is a transitional provision, which will at this point be based on the fact that Article. 98b will also apply to pending and pending cases. Of course, Law and Justice will support and vote for this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u240	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u241	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today's Senate draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 29 April 2020, in which the Court ruled that Article. 104a The Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, in so far as it excludes the possibility for the defendant to obtain an exemption from judicial costs in electronic proceedings, is incompatible with the Constitution. Thus, this draft law introduces the possibility of exempting the party to proceedings from these costs. It is estimated that this regulation in its new shape will be applied occasionally. There's no doubt about the project. The proposed changes are positively assessed. One amendment, adopted unanimously, was tabled in committee at first reading. The Civic Coalition will therefore vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u242	Thank you very much. I ask Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left, to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u243	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, Prints No. 994 and 1309 containing the draft amendment of the Act and the report of the commission following work in committee at first reading. Everyone shall have the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. This is the case with Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The law must not close anybody's judicial path to the investigation of violated freedoms or rights, as provided for in Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. These important constitutional guarantees, the principles and rights of the citizen to the court are now in breach of part of the Article. 104a Law of 28 July 2005 on judicial costs in civil matters. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 29 April 2020, that provision is incompatible with the Constitution, it infringes the aforementioned provisions of the Basic Law insofar as in electronic proceedings it excludes the possibility of the defendant to obtain an exemption from judicial costs. The purpose of the amendments introduced in this submission is to adapt the Polish law system to the said judgment of the Court. The proposed proposal amends the Law of 28 July 2005 on judicial costs in civil matters by adding after Article. Article 98a 98b providing that expenditure shall be borne by the State Treasury in electronic proceedings. In the course of the committee's work, an article was also added. 2 extending the application of the new Article. 98b in such a way that it is covered by cases already initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Law. The amendments adapt the Polish right to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal in the following areas. In the electronic reminder proceedings, the defendant's possibility of obtaining an exemption from judicial costs was excluded and in this respect the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters of 2005 was declared incompatible with the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal took the view that, where an obligation to pay court costs is imposed and there is a state obligation to pay them, there should also be an effective system of exemptions from those charges for the balance of the parties to proceedings in order to ensure the right of access to the court. In the new article. 98b is proposed to use the formula used in Article. 98a, as a result of which the exemption from the obligation to bear expenditure in electronic reproving proceedings will now be of a statutory nature. The proposed changes will be relatively rarely applied, as due to the nature of the renouncing procedure, expenditure will also be incidental in the course of this procedure. However, given that these amendments align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also guarantee the fuller exercise of the citizen's right to court, the Left Club supports these arrangements and the draft proposal submitted to the Senate to amend the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u244	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position towards the Senate's draft law amending the law on judicial costs in civil matters, prints No. 994 and 1309. These amendments adapt the right to the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of April 2020 according to which, in so far as the possibility of the defendant to obtain an exemption from judicial costs is excluded from the electronic reprimand procedure, the Law on judicial costs in civil matters of 2005 is incompatible with the Constitution. As underlined in the explanatory memorandum of the draft, the Constitutional Tribunal took the view that, if an obligation to pay legal costs is imposed, there is a state obligation to pay them, there should also be an effective system of exemptions from those charges for the balance of the parties to proceedings in order to ensure the right of access to the court. In accordance with the draft law, an additional provision will be added to the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, which provides that expenditure is borne by the State Treasury in electronic proceedings. In the new article. 98b It is therefore proposed to adopt a solution whereby the exemption from the obligation to bear expenditure in the case of electronic renouncing proceedings will be of a statutory nature. This solution, due to its automation, will not further involve the resources of the judiciary in assessing whether the property situation of the parties allows for exemption from judicial costs. This will improve such proceedings and eliminate situations which would restrict the right to court. It is expected that this law will first of all result in the defendant's status as a defendant in the proceedings concerned not being confronted with any fiscal obstacles in relation to access to the court. The Sejm Committee on Justice and Human Rights unanimously voted in favour of this project. I think that the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club will also work in this spirit and support the adoption of the project during further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u246	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Tuduja to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u247	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft shall adapt the provisions of the Civil Costs Act to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 29 April 2020. The Constitutional Tribunal found it unconstitutional to exclude by law the possibility for the parties to apply for exemption from judicial costs in electronic reproving proceedings. The project is, of course, uncontroversial; it is justified. We'll support him. The effectiveness of the Polish legal system in this case should be assessed positively. It remains to be hoped that this will also be the case for other matters and that there will be more normality in this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 will address Mr Tomasz Zimoch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill's short, but we need it. These are three articles which, as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, amend the law on judicial costs in civil matters. It is worth noting that neither the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, nor the National Judicial Council, nor the Supreme Council, nor the Supreme Court have submitted comments to the draft. I do not want to repeat what has already been said in the Seym today, so to make up for some time, let me just say that mini mode, max, or minimum words, the maximum of good law is also indicated in this part. Mr. Marshal! Members of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050, of course, support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. On this list, the list of people enrolled in the vote has been exhausted. If anyone else would like to join the list of questions, you're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Ms Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I lack one thing in this document, namely the regulation of issues important for a proper understanding of the concept of justice. I am thinking of the reimbursement of the court fees paid on the charges lodged, which, following the appeals and complaints lodged, were taken into account by the Court of First Instance, which means that there has been a defective judgment. If the court of first instance made a mistake, that means he misjudged the case. That means the court's work was inappropriate. Who bears the consequences? A citizen, of course. Winning this stage doesn't mean winning the case yet. It can go on for years. Therefore, perhaps it would be worth it in the article. 79 of that law states that, in the event of an appeal or a complaint which led to the annulment of the decision and the referral of the case for retrial, the court shall reimburse the fee (the bell) paid by the contested measure to the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u252	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Suchon. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the ruling coalition. Many times in this room we have dealt with laws that lasted one day. Here's a bill that all clubs agree to. We've been investigating her for six months now. In January B.C. The Senate sent the bill to the Sejm. The government's opinion, which was written surprisingly only in June, states: The proposed change does not raise doubts. The introduction of the draft regulation at the earliest possible time should be considered desirable in order to ensure compliance of the provisions of the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters with the constitutional standard of control and the fullest protection of the interests of the parties to judicial proceedings in civil matters. Why is this bill being proceded in this House at a rate of tortoise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u254	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marcelin Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u255	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Government of the United Right has repeatedly said that it wants to bring the judicial system closer to citizens and citizens so that it can be used more easily. What does reality look like? The reality is that not only have you raised the amount of fees that have already existed, you have already imposed new ones for appeals and complaints and a fee for a request for reasons of judgment. What are you going to do to fully implement the citizen's right to court regardless of the wealth of his wallet? Because this bill that we are talking about today is going in that direction, but your previous actions actually limit citizens' right to court. You're talking about how the judicial system works badly, and at the same time you're doing everything you can to make it work even worse. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u256	Thank you very much. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Now I ask Catherine Frydrych, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amends the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. It consists of the addition of an article. 98b. As already mentioned, the draft law implements the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 29 April 2020 in case P 19/16. In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal held that the provision of the Article was unconstitutional. 104a of the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters to the extent that in electronic proceedings, that provision excludes the possibility for the defendant to obtain an exemption from judicial costs. I would like to point out that the proposed provision is: in electronic proceedings, the State Treasury is responsible for the expenditure. Expenditure is a slightly narrower concept than judicial costs. The judgment was delivered on the basis of a case in which expenditure on the expert's opinion had to be paid. In view of the rare occurrence of such situations and in order to maintain the efficiency of the proceedings, it is proposed that both parties be legally exempted from expenditure in these proceedings. The project assumes that the State Treasury will bear these expenses definitively, which means that the parties will not be burdened with them. In the course of the work, an article was added. 2 relating to the regulation relating to what is happening in the case of cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Law. There is no doubt that the regulation that the proposed provision also applies to these situations is correct, but justifies the application of a law which is more favourable to the parties in all pending and unfinished cases. The government has a positive opinion on the draft submitted. On the other hand, with regard to issues that were raised during the course of the questions, I would like to point out that it is not so that the right to court is limited or dependent on the value of the citizen's wallet. The citizen has the right to apply for exemption from judicial costs at any stage of the proceedings. The Court of First Instance shall then examine whether the conditions for the party not to pay those costs in whole or in part, including in respect of expenditure, are met. This regulation guarantees the possibility for each party to make such an application and the court considers whether the application is justified or whether, in fact, the financial situation of the party does not allow it to bear legal costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the Senate draft law amending the Law on the Court of State (Prints No. 993 and 1330). I would like to ask Małgorzata Wassermann to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 23 June 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the draft law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u260	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Arent to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility on the draft law amending the Law on the Court of State, prints Nos 993 and 1330. This is a bill prepared by the Senate and addressed by the Senate resolution to the Marshal on 13 January 2021. This is a very short amendment to the Law on the Court of State, which contains only two articles, and it is very short. The amendment proposes to amend the body empowered to issue the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State. Until now, under the Law on the Court of State, the Sejm was the body which established the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State. Following the adoption of this amendment, the Tribunal itself will issue its rules of procedure and this will be regarded as an act of an internal nature, and very well. This project is the consequence of a petition which has been submitted to the Senate. In this petition, the applicant proposed to amend the provision of the Article. 27. She proposed to be replaced by the following: the competent authority for issuing the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State shall be the President of the Court of State. Of course, the previous provision, which said that the Sejm adopted the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State, was issued in the times of the Polish People's Republic, on 6 July 1982, pursuant to the resolution of the Polish Sejm of the People's Republic. When the Law on the Court of State was passed in 1982, there was no clear distinction between the sources of universal law and internal acts. Following the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in 1997, public authorities may issue statutory normative acts concerning another body only in strictly defined situations. Firstly, it is either an organisationally subordinate body or has been authorised to issue an implementing act on the basis of a statutory authorisation, e.g. regulation, and the Sejm does not have the possibility to issue regulations. It therefore seems logical that these Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should not establish that the Court of State should itself lay down the rules of procedure, all the more so as the Court of State is not subject to the rules of procedure of the Sejm. It is therefore appropriate that the Tribunal itself establish these rules of procedure. That is why this amendment is very well founded. I propose to adapt the content of the article. 27 to the current system of sources of law by authorising the Court of State to amend its Rules of Procedure by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of members of the Court of State. The petitioner's request was that the Rules of Procedure be prepared by the President of the Court of State, while the amendment we have been working on is the solution that the Court itself will do so by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of members of the Court of State. Following the entry into force of this amendment, the previous rules will cease to apply, a new regulation will be adopted which will have a broader scope. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to the State Court Act in general. It was passed even in the time of the Polish People's Republic, in 1982. To date, this law has not been amended or the rules of the Court of State and constitutional responsibility in Poland have not been amended. Of course, there were minor cosmetic changes just like the one we are working on today, and in the meantime the constitution has also changed, so it would be worth considering the preparation of a new comprehensive law on the Court of State, possibly on the direction of constitutional liability in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u262	Thank you very much. I ask Katarzyna Ueberhan to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left. [[Mr. Marshal, there's been a mix-up, and on behalf of the club, I should present my position. There is no Mrs Ueberhan, so if that is possible...]] I would like to ask you, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u263	Thank you very much. Gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this law, which came by petition to the Senate, is a bill that is expected, a law that is simple, a law to be supported, because this body, which is the Court of State, should decide for itself how it works, should adopt its own rules of procedure, should not do so to the lower chamber of parliament. We support this project, and this project is not controversial, although on this occasion I wanted to say in the majority of the House Members of Law and Justice that I expect and hope so, and I am sure that there will be a moment when some of you before this Court of State will have an unpleasant pleasure to sit down, to submit to its assessment and that this regulation can be used to ensure that in Poland, finally, this institution is not just a patch that causes constitutional responsibility, so that it is not such a paprotist, but that it can actually finally politically condemn those who have the constitution and the laws, acting in responsible political functions in Poland, break. [[You can apply. Why aren't you applying? There you go.]] E.g. This is Minister Zbigniew Ziobro. I hope that the Court of State, which is elected, will be able to take such action. And I'm sure no parliamentarian... Madame, please make it very possible to speak. ...and the parliamentarians of the Left will not be stuck anywhere in the parliamentary corridor at this time. You can be sure of that law and justice state. Thank you very much. [[We're waiting for conclusions. Somehow there are no conclusions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u264	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Jan Łopa to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u265	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on the Court of State. High Seym! The present project is a proposal submitted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, and aims to change the wording of the article. 27 of the Law of 26 March 1982 on the Court of State dated 26 March 1982. The previous record of this article was - here I quote: The Sejm adopts the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State. Since the Court of State is not an organisational unit subordinate to the Sejm, this excludes the possibility of issuing internal acts before the Court of State. Nor does the Sejm have a statutory authority to issue regulations in this respect. Moreover, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not provide for the possibility for the Sejm to issue regulations at all. In view of the above, the Senate's problem has given the petition P9/52/19 to the Senate the dimension of the statutory amendments. During the consultation on this project, the Supreme Court and its first President, who are, as we know, at the same time the President of the Court of State, who noted that the proposed regulation corresponds to the general principle of the autonomy of the courts and tribunals, namely the Article. 173 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which cannot be said to be the norm resulting from the current wording of this article. 27 Law on the Court of State according to which the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State are adopted by the Sejm. And in conclusion, the first President, the President, welcomes the petition and proposals for legislative amendments. I also have the honour to give this opinion on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Is Mr Tomasz Zimoch in the room? [[I am, but there is Mr Neumann.]] Indeed, Mr Neumann is. Then I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding to amend the Law on the Court of State - a law which is already 40 years old and, in my opinion, requires serious consideration and serious change. And this change today is only a certain technical improvement in the work of the Court of State, a transfer of powers which should belong to the members of the tribunal for every obvious reason, and not to the President of the Tribunal, so it does not cause much controversy. This is the work of the Senate and is connected with the work of the petition committee. The Senate should be thanked at this point for taking care of this bill. Of course, the Civic Coalition Club will support this change. I'm hoping for a quick introduction of these, as I say, but some delicate, small changes. But I would encourage - and I think it is also worth saying this in this debate - to sit down and seriously reflect on the entire Law on the Court of State, whether it should be changed in its entirety or to prepare a major amendment, because 40 years of action of this law shows that it is probably not an effective tool in its present form and is not an effective tool. So for the future - I think that many people may be interested in this well-functioning institution in the future, one should lean on a serious change of this law. And this shift today, of course, our club will support it. We are also counting on rapid changes to the rules, which will already be in line with the standards, which are obvious to everyone, as I see, and when this law was created in the 1980s, it was not clear. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I ask you to change the article. 27 of the Law on the Court of State and the introduction of the provision: The competent authority for issuing the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State shall be the President of the Court of State. Such a solution is justified by Article. 10 Constitutions and Art. 173. The Sejm is not the competent State authority which should have an impact on the actions taken at the Court of State. Such a petition entered the Senate several months ago. As a result of this petition, a bill was finally drafted. The question is, why is it the petition of a citizen? Why, although the need had previously been indicated, the amendment of the article was delayed. 27th State Court Act? Let's reminisce about art. 10 Constitution: The regime of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 expressly stresses that courts and tribunals exercise judicial authority. Art. 173 of the Constitution, which was cited in the petition, even states that courts and tribunals are separate and independent from other authorities. The Sejm should not adopt, and it is good that it will no longer adopt, the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State. This is because there must be a state-of-the-art autonomy of courts and tribunals. The Court of State must be independent of other authorities and must have a guarantee of separation from the Sejm. Compared to the content of the petition, the Rules of Procedure will be adopted, not by the President, but by the members of the Tribunal, and the contents of the Rules will be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 of course supports this project. Congratulations to the petitioner. And yes, Mr. Marshal, the High Sejm, it turns out that citizens' petitions have great power to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u270	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Four people signed up for the questions. Would any of you like to join the list? If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Lewis, will ask you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me quote Professor Ryszard Piotrowski from the University of Warsaw. Literally quote: It seems that the illusion of constitutional responsibility, which is co-created by its current regulation, delegates the democratic rule of law, promoting - and promoting - this is very important - the primacy of politics over the law. That's what you're prof. Piotrowski spoke about the situation of the Court of State. I would like to quote one more sentence: the choice of judges of the Court of State by the Sejm for the duration of his term of office is fatal, which raises questions about the independence of the judges of that tribunal. This is Professor Krzysztof Grajewski from the University of Gdańsk. High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've finally started going in the right direction. Anyway, I'm very happy because everyone on the committee agreed. We're heading in the right direction. That is why I would very much like us to continue this work and that the court, which is the Court of State, should no longer be a dormant court. Hence my rhetorical question: Can we do it? I hope so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u272	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Suchon or Mr Mishalski, but Mr Jan Szopiński is. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u273	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the provision contained in this senate bill, which states that the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State are subject to publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland, I would like to suggest whether, in connection with the cases of non-publication of various documents and judgments and the various controversies which arise around it, it would not be advisable to indicate in this document a specific date of publication and the person directly responsible for fulfilling this obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u274	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? I don't think he's in the O.R. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Committee on the Government's draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information (prints 1338 and 1390). I ask Mrs Agnieszka Soin to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u275	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies from the first reading of the Government's draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information, prints 1338 and 1390, which took place at the committee meeting on 13 July this year. The need for a law on open data and the re-use of public sector information arises from the need to implement Directive 2019/1024/EU of 20 June 2019 on open data and the re-use of public sector information. The proposed law will replace the current law of 25 February 2016 on the re-use of public sector information. The main objective of the proposed law is to strengthen the data-based market, among others. by increasing the amount of information made available by the public sector and providing users with access to valuable data resources made available through the application's programming interface and machine-readable formats. Such data distribution will be particularly important for professional users, e.g. programmers, IT companies. More data can also be used for analysis, research or artificial intelligence solutions, including for business and industry, or crisis modelling, e.g. In case of an outbreak. The Act will adapt Polish legislation to the requirements of the Open Data Directive. Within the framework of the proposed regulation, new categories of data were identified from public sector information, i.e. high-value data with significant benefits for society, the environment and the economy, and dynamic data, i.e. data subject to frequent real-time updates or updates, e.g. environmental data, data generated by factors, traffic data. For the two separate categories of information, specific rules were laid down for making such resources available for reuse. In order to increase the amount of public sector information available for re-use, the scope of the Act was also covered by data which were so far outside the re-use regulation. This applies to research data which will be subject to re-use free of charge if they are produced or collected in the context of a public scientific activity and are already made publicly available online, and data derived from so-called. public undertakings, i.e. public undertakings within the meaning of Article. 2 point 3 of the Open Data Directive, which operates in selected sectors of the economy, including: the transport, electricity, gas, water and postal services sector. The adaptation of Polish legislation to the requirements of the Open Data Directive is an essential objective of the proposed law. At the same time, however, solutions that go beyond the minimum laid down by the Directive will be introduced. The most important ones are the data portal. gov.pl, the data opening program and the network of data openness representatives. In addition, a comprehensive conceptual structure has been developed in the proposed law, introducing a legal glossary containing, among others,: definitions of open data and application programming interface. The use of standard licences has been allowed and a single review body has been introduced against decisions relating to the transmission of public sector information at the request issued at first instance by obliged entities. The role of the Board of Appeal, i.e. the second instance body will be provided by the Minister responsible for IT. The project met with a positive acceptance of the members of the committee. It was adopted in conjunction with amendments, of which editorial and legislative amendments prevail. On behalf of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, I recommend that the High House adopt a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u276	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy? And Mr Arkadiusz Carrot is? There isn't. Mr Adrian Zandberg is in the Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u277	High Izbo! The fact that the modern data economy stands is a cliché. The cliché is that the digital revolution has raised the value of resources such as statistics, economic data, environmental data, but also archival materials or digitised books. What is less banal is that the accumulation of this information creates competitive advantages, allows you to improve products, goods. And here is a paradox: on the one hand, we all know that the more open data, the more publicly available data are, the better the effect for the whole economy, on the other hand, this accumulation of resources in the hands of several large, international corporations makes a large proportion of economically and socially valuable data out of the public domain, not available to their competitors as well. You have the tools to counter this, you have the regulatory tools, but you also have the tool that we are talking about today, i.e. a tool to which data are produced by the State, on behalf of the State, for public money. And it's a good thing we're talking about them today. This government draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information implements the EU Directive of 2019. It is nice that we are taking this issue seriously, that we are implementing this directive. I will agree with what your fellow Member has said here, that this is a time when it would be worth going beyond the minimum required by the Union, that it should only be a starting point and that we should move forward bolder in these matters, but I feel that we could go braver than in this government proposal that we are talking about today. For the Coalition Left Club, it is clear that all state-produced content - except, of course, exceptions to the content related to the protection of state secrecy - should in principle be available to citizens free of charge and along with the source code, which is important because they are not owned by the government or by a specific ministry, created by public measures, thanks to the taxes that we all pay. It's a good thing that as far as data is concerned, this project goes this way, but the problem is that today the limit between data and software is quite fluid. And that is why, as a coalition club of the Left, we will submit at second reading an amendment to the procedated bill which releases for reuse the source code of software and other elements of computer programs created in the context of public tasks created for public tasks. We want to reverse the logic that is contained in this project in our own way. We believe that when it comes to software, the default option should be to make the software public, and only in special cases should the code not be open. We also think that it would be worthwhile to think, perhaps not in this, and in the next approach to this subject, about a system of incentives or regulation concerning platforms with significant digital presence. The point is that these powerful actors, which today monopolise many areas of social life and monopolise many data resources, encourage and increase transparency and interoperability, and exchange data with both public and private actors, so that this system is open to both sides, because it is important not only that the data be made available by the State for private sector entities, but also that a system of incentives be built that will make more of those data that also produce the public sector more widely. So, as I have said, the coalition club of the Left is making these amendments -- here we are -- which, if we accept them, will guarantee that the software that was created for public tasks will, in principle, go to the public domain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We encourage the majority in charge to boldly move forward, as the Member has said, rather than to stop at the minimum laid down by Brussels, and simply accept these amendments on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u278	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Dariusz Kurzawa to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u279	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present the position of my club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information, prints No. 1338 and 1390. The draft law implements the principles governed by Directive (EU) 2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019. It is therefore a good thing that the Polish Parliament has worked to bring Polish law into line with European Union legislation on open data and the re-use of public sector information. The proposed changes aim to increase the amount of public data that can be used. Wide access to public sector data is important due to the development of new products and services. Public entities shall produce and store or store a huge amount of information and content, starting with statistical, economic or environmental data, through archival materials, digitised art collections or collections. Such harvests can therefore be used in the economy and science. It is therefore necessary to lay down the rules and techniques relating to the use of these crops. We therefore call for the adoption of legislative amendments, including those resulting from the errors which were tabled and drawn up at the meeting of the Digital Commission on 13 July this year. The introduction of this law, after taking into account the necessary amendments, is justified. My club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will vote for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u280	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Michał Grammarka to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an epoch law. This is a law that responds to the challenges of the 21st century. That is why I am very happy to be able to work on this submission, and I am very happy that we are discussing open data in this Chamber today. We respond to the European Community's call, we do it in a modern way. Dynamic data, universal data sharing formats or interfaces that allow the use of these data, so-called. API, these are all solutions that not only raise Poland's position in the open data category, but they primarily drive our economy, both in traditional and digital sectors. They reduce the costs of the services provided, allow better allocation of resources, give scope for new, often completely unprecedented technologies. And above all, they even the gap between big companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. In the world, many businesses have built data. I firmly believe that the provision of resources held by the state today will enable such businesses to be built in our country. Importantly, the competitive position in this market is equal for everyone, and here success depends on a good idea, on the ability to think outside the box, and among them Polish IT specialists are masters. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni we will fight for even wider opening of data. We'll make some adjustments. In these amendments, we slightly modify the provisions of the submission. We want the re-use of the data to be possible regardless of its purpose. We call for the removal of restrictions in the directory of data re-use cases, we extend the directory of entities obliged to share data, we also open the scope of data sharing more widely, going slightly beyond the scope described in the submission. Finally, on the basis of the amendment tabled by Adrian Zandberg, we are opening up the source codes for computer programs that have been created to carry out public tasks to re-use them. We will, of course, vote in favour of this law. I am making amendments to the hands of the marshal, and once again I am proud of the fact that we are discussing such an important subject in this Chamber in such a substantive way and beyond divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka is in the Chamber, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u283	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In the digital economy in the 21st century, something like access to data is normal. Generally, data is said to be modern currency. And the more the public sector gives these data to those who can propose new solutions, the better it is for the social, economic and not just for the development of our country. I will go to the point where this project is concerned, and I will say, focusing on the essential issues and provisions of this proposal, that the draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information simply aligns Polish law with European Union legislation on the open data and the use of the information contained therein. The main objective of this directive, which is being implemented by the draft law we are working on, is above all to increase the amount of data that is available for re-use, which will benefit the innovation of the economy and simply to improve the quality of life of society. The aim is to make better and better use of the potential of this information that the public sector has. In addition, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the scope of this directive is also covered by data which have so far remained outside the re-use regulations. This is one of the things that goes on here. for such data which originate from public undertakings which operate in selected sectors of the economy. I would also like to point out here that the provision in this project, which provides for the creation of a legal basis for voluntary making available through the Minister responsible for computerisation of resources and information held by public sector entities, is appropriate and necessary. Here I would also like to point out that this is, you can say, the advantage of opening data and sharing it further, is simply that after these changes more data will be used to carry out various kinds of analyses, studies or needs related to something that is very up-to-date today and is growing faster, i.e. the development of artificial intelligence above all. It is also important to mention the fundamental issues which concern the fact that these data will serve the development of business, industry, will also give the possibility of some crisis modelling, and we are at the time of the greatest accumulation of pandemics and we know how useful such modelling is. I would also like to draw attention to an important point. The point is that the laws are introducing a new category of data, so-called. high value data with significant benefits for both society, the environment and the economy. Data are considered to be such data, among others. geospatial, meteorological or those that concern companies also belonging to the State Treasury. I would like to say on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club that this project, which implements European Union law into our legal order, is an important, necessary project. Let us hope that it will serve economic and social development, because the more data in a clear, clear, transparent and simple way will be available to those citizens who create modern solutions, the better, because more people will be able to benefit from these solutions later. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u284	Thank you very much, sir. On this list, the list of people enrolled in the vote has been exhausted. Four Members joined the questions. If no one else wants to add up, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń is absent from the Chamber. But Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, whom I invite, is present.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u285	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government has presented a project intended to improve the use of data, public sector information. The creation of an integrated analytical platform, the data portal seems to be a very bold project for a government that has had a huge problem with leaking its own correspondence at the highest levels of power in recent months. I would therefore like to remind you that the data portal is intended to include 54 sensitive data on not only the identification number of PESEL, the place of residence or the marital status, but also education, career history, working life, information on the cash benefits collected or information on the income of each citizen. We are all aware of the importance of computerising modern society, but we need to ask ourselves two important questions. First of all, what is the purpose of such a detailed personalization of citizens' data? We see here a great risk of abuse by power. Secondly: What standards does the Law and Justice Government intend to introduce so that these data do not fall into the wrong hands and do not become the subject of (the bell) the processing of third parties? We are not optimistic about the level of security applied by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u286	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Michael Grammar for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of my question is statistical information on two sectors of the Polish economy, namely the energy sector and the coal mining sector. This information is not collected by the Central Statistical Office, but by 20 years of tradition it is done by the Energy Market Agency and the Industrial Development Agency. These data are not made available again in universal formats, but can be e.g. buy in online stores of the Energy Market Agency and the Industrial Development Agency. My question: Is it planned to include this data in the spirit of the requested submission to the public and make it available to any interested party for reuse? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u288	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the course of legislative work, the Polish Federation of Hospitals proposed to consider the possibility of introducing a mandate to the Minister of Digitization in the draft law to issue guidelines on anonymity. Federation representatives say that the public sector information provider may not know how to carry out anonymity from the technical side and thus ultimately make data available that are not non-nomised or made available at all on the pretext that it cannot make them non-nomimised in any way. The bill does not solve the problem raised by the Polish Federation of Hospitals. The Federation, as the data subject of particularly sensitive data, identified ambiguities and interpretation problems in data anonymity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the question to the Minister: Could it not be possible to amend this law and create a single document that regulates all questionable issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u290	Thank you very much. And now, sir, excuse me, Minister, but also Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Yes, sir.]] ...secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, to take a stand, to respond to the statements of the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u291	Yes, thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would certainly like to thank the Members of the Digital Commission who are working with us on this project. This is undoubtedly very substantive work. In the committee there was an interesting discussion, a multi-hour discussion, during which we came to many common interesting conclusions. Undoubtedly, the draft law on open data and the re-use of public sector information is, as Mr Grammar said, a breakthrough project. It is an innovative project that will move Poland to the next level in terms of the degree of openness of public data. I would like to remind you here that this is an even higher bar, which is already in this area and so highly placed because Poland has in recent years, according to the ranking of the European Commission, been promoted to a group of leaders of the European Union in terms of open data policy. Today we are even ranked sixth in the European Union, which means that we are also ahead of countries that seem much more technologically advanced and richer than us. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would also like to refer to the words that have been spoken and the questions of your Members. As regards the scope of cooperation with technological giants, technological platforms, Mr Zandberg raised this issue - certainly such a strict one. relations, how technological platforms are to function on the European Union market, i.e. also on the Polish market, will be further clarified in detail by the current Digital Services Code, i.e. the DSA. There we can talk about the position of technological platforms on the European Union market, on the EU market, but strictly in terms of data policy and its use, we are aware that technological platforms, technological giants have much more opportunities to use and share and, above all, data acquisition. As a state, we must be a guarantee to users that these data that they provide to technological giants are, firstly, safe and, secondly, used exclusively in this area, in which the user knowingly agrees, because this is also important. Sometimes these rules are very complicatedly written, they are too long - in our opinion these procedures need to be simplified. The data directive will also be presented in the framework of EU work, so I think that there is as much room in these documents for us to also, perhaps in the committee on digitalisation, to talk about this aspect. I agree that this is a strategic issue when it comes to cooperation between technology platforms and users, also in the context of the data that platforms collect from users. I also agree with Mr Grammar that today opening data is in the interests not only of the state but also of entrepreneurs. We know very well that today most international corporations make decisions on the basis of an analysis of data that has previously been processed in very detail. We also want to point out that, since the state is one of the largest repositories of data throughout the market, this data should be shared and encouraged, especially the market and entrepreneurs - including smaller entrepreneurs, not only huge companies - to use this data, analyse it on its basis and finally make business decisions. Referring to Mr Carrot's words, I will point out that particularly the development of artificial intelligence, the expansion of analytical tools to use this data, this is certainly a very important area, because data, as we say today, are a bit of the currency of the 21st century. It can also be said that they are ammunition for the development of artificial intelligence, a resource on the basis of which artificial intelligence can develop, learn, build appropriate mechanisms that will improve the functioning of the state and citizens. Therefore, when we talk about data policy in the context of the development of artificial intelligence and the construction of tools that these data process - when it comes to data opening, we want to ensure that this law not only increases data supply, but also their quality. The data supply itself, if it does not go with quality, can cause that data to not be used too willingly. We must therefore also build properly professional analytical tools that will draw appropriate conclusions from these data, also suitable for the state administration for subsequent implementation. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the specific questions - I would like to ask Mr Tuduja - first of all, let us remember that we have a GDPR policy that protects people's data very clearly and shows the extent to which they are used. It is not that we can absolutely process any data in any way, regardless of the time frame and willingness to use it. On the other hand, with regard to the questions of Mr Grammar and Mr Szopiński, I will allow myself to authorise the Chancellery of the Prime Minister to present written answers to you by tomorrow - that is, before the meeting of the Digital Commission, which will examine our law at second reading. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u292	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Innovation and Modern Technology in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Act on Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments (Prints No. 1358 and 1411). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on Public Finances on the government project in print No 1358 and in print No 1411 - a government project on amending the Act on Investment Funds and managing alternative investment funds and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. This government submission is in fact intended to implement EU law into the Polish legal order. It is a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, but also a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council from an area involving the facilitation of cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings. I would like to say that it is very happy and deserves to be emphasised that officials, the European Parliament, have taken the trouble - on average, as we look at these documents, about 10 years since 2008, when we were facing a crisis in the financial markets - to review these documents and to follow them there were new regulations amending those original documents that were generated after the crisis. The important thing is that they will be implemented in the Polish legal order. We hope that they will make a significant contribution to improving quality standards and, above all, security in investing in the market in Poland, so it welcomes the fact that the government has prepared these documents for today. The Committee on Public Finance, which I have the honour to represent, has worked through this document as a first reading. There has been an extensive discussion on the proposals made and it must be acknowledged that, in fact, this proposal does not differ substantially from the proposed EU legislation. Several amendments were tabled in the course of the work, because, in addition to the amendments of order and editorial nature proposed by lawyers, Members made proposals to extend the scope of the government proposal, which is very beneficial for entrepreneurs, for companies and for people who operate today in the field of transport services. It is proposed to extend this proposal to amend the Public Roads Act, the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, and the Highways Act and the National Road Fund. In general, it is about changes that concern the opening up of the possibility of passing on cars, despite the lack of possibility for them to transmit geolocation data. This is intended to facilitate the work of the National Tax Administration and the control services. The Committee on Public Finance has given a positive opinion on this presentation to the government following those amendments which have been tabled in the course of its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the report of the Committee on Public Finance in print No. 1411 on the draft law amending the Act on Investment Funds and the management of alternative investment funds and certain other laws. The rapporteur has basically presented the scope of the Government and tabled amendments adopted by the committee, so I do not think it makes much sense for me to repeat all this again. The proposed law transposes EU directives into the Polish legal system. This was presented by the rapporteur. These changes concern a limited number of financial market players. And, most importantly, they are beneficial to these actors. The amendments tabled and adopted by the committee meet citizens, in front of Poles, are beneficial for Poles and Polish companies. These corrections related to the toll collection system and to the change of the viaTOLL system to e-TOLL are minor, improving, but also beneficial for Poles. Even though they're expanding government submissions, we're all in favour of these amendments, behind this whole presentation. Law and Justice will vote in favour of this bill and we ask all States, the entire High House, to support this proposal. We thank the government for this bill, which has been prepared really well, efficiently, and because we are a loyal member of the European Union, we must implement these EU directives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u296	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? Mr Tomasz Trela, Left. [[The Member is coming, Marshal.]] It'll wait. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u297	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left against the government draft law amending the Act on Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments from Print No. 1358. As the rapporteur has already presented, this is a draft law in which Polish law is adapted to EU law. The Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 and 7 October 2020 are implemented. For us, the issue is fairly clear and obvious: such projects that implement EU rules must be implemented in Poland and we are obliged and obliged to do so. Allow me to quote only two points from the justification for them to sound: to lay down uniform rules on investor advertising information, common rules on fees and commissions imposed on managers of collective investment undertakings in relation to their cross-border activities, and to make available on the website information on national rules on the requirements for the marketing of collective investment undertakings and the imposition of fees and commissions. These are the elements to seal, to clarify the rules related to widely understood advertising, but also to investment in investment funds. If these directives and the law that will be introduced are to seal this system and give investors a greater sense of security, this should be supported. That is why the Left Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u298	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u299	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a draft law which is, of course, an adaptation of our right to EU law and the requirements that are being put before us. This is a fairly technical act and a fairly obvious change. One thing I just wanted to point out is an incentive to switch from viaTOLL to e-TOLL - in the form of a fee reduction. It is, of course, also about what has already been done by a Member representing Law and Justice, which means that thanks to the entry of the e-TOLL system it will be easier for tax and control services to pursue those who will, of course, be smarter when passing through. We also know that they are already established and that penalties will be further developed for drivers who will use the e-TOLL system not necessarily as it is created. We read about 500 zlotys for a car or 1500 zlotys for a car. In addition, the e-TOLL system also allows for better operation of the system associated with the distance measurement of speed. So that, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that there is a need to implement this in accordance with EU law. We know that this is quite easy, but we also feel that there is a control factor here and there is room for the state, of course, to make a profit from it. Whether he earns much or little, we'll see. That depends on how this system works after implementation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u300	Thank you, sir. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr President, I think you have the wrong bill.]] [[I don't think so.]] Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. The project generally adapts Polish law to European Union rules as regards investment funds and the management of alternative investment funds, increasing mainly, perhaps primarily, the security of investors. It concerns, among others, the following: removing barriers to the marketing of investment funds within the European Union and establishing clear rules for the withdrawal of investment funds from its activities. Solutions are also introduced to facilitate cross-border activities for collective investment undertakings such as investment funds and alternative investment funds. As I said, this is the implementation of the European Union directive in this area. Introduces e.g. uniform requirements for advertising information addressed to potential investors. It enhances transparency, strengthens investor protection and facilitates access to information on applicable or advertising regulations. A central database shall also be entered, which shall be accessible via the website. The scope of the data which investment funds - and open funds and closed funds - must provide to supervisory authorities before the launch of the marketing of instruments within the European Union is extended. It also affects the rules on crowdfunding funding. About 2050 will support this project, assuming that it is our duty to implement European law into Polish law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u303	Dear Marshal! Membership! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and managing alternative investment funds and certain other laws. As my previous speaker said, one of my previous speakers, the proposed amendment implements the Polish legal system of the EU directive and the supplementary regulation mentioned above. Directive. The main objective is to develop and deepen the integration of the European investment fund market by further harmonising the markets of the Member States and removing the remaining differences and barriers that hinder the managers of the funds from operating in the internal market. Since the project is an implementation of European law and introduces a number of facilitations for investors, the Civic Coalition club was generally inclined to support it, but it is no longer because it became scandalous in the course of the meeting of the finance committee. Scandalous, though not unusual, because such things as the rule of law and justice can and are even commonplace. Personally, during the discussion, I asked the Minister whether the project went beyond the implementing regulations. I heard the assurance that you didn't. What happened next? The members of the Law and Justice have proposed four amendments, which have also resulted in the draft amendment amending the Public Roads Act, the Highways Act and the National Road Fund Act, the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. Why? What is the connection between the transport of live animals or concrete and alternative investment funds? What do motorway tolls have in common with the rules on advertising collective investment undertakings? [[Voice from the Chamber: All pro-Citizen amendments.]] It is the legislative sloppyness of the ruling party that brings these matters together. The applicants themselves were gracious to note that the addition of amendments, the scope of which is absolutely nothing to supplement the bill, is - this is a quote - in a sense not elegant, but it is a change that benefits citizens. I'm not gonna play euphemism. It's not even a shortcut, it's a public legislative fraud. And it doesn't matter who he serves, because once he serves the citizens, and another time, much more often, the changes shoved by different laws only serve the ruling party. According to the Legislative Bureau, the proposed amendments should definitely be included in a separate bill. This procedure constitutes a gross violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, including the requirement that the first reading of the amendments to the codes - and one of the amendments introduces such an amendment in the Code of Conduct in cases of misconduct - should be examined only at the meeting of the Sejm. It's an absolute rule. Absolutely binding all, but not Law and Justice, because some animals are just as much alike. The State of the Legal Office of the Sejm is making a fern and a correction office, and you have made your trademark from the patronage. You're destroying the law you have in your name, and you're destroying Polish parliamentarianism. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club cannot support such a draft bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government project presented concerns the implementation of European law as regards this basic part of the document. And it is true, as my previous speaker said, that additional amendments were also made later, and the right ones were needed. Just a question: Should they at this point, at this law be introduced? It is about regulations on transport, roads and so on. I don't want to discuss it because it's not a good practice to put a little bit of a side door, but we think it's a necessity, although we don't approve. In this amendment, as I said, it is to bring the law into line with the European rules on investment funds and the management of alternative investment funds. The purpose of the new regulation is to further harmonise the markets of the Member States of the Union and to remove, inter alia, the remaining differences and barriers that may hinder fund managers from operating in the internal market, in particular by ensuring a level playing field for Member States' markets for Union managers and by establishing clear rules for the withdrawal of investment funds from the activities carried out in the Member State of the Union. So what mechanisms are introduced by the amendment of the law? I'm just gonna name some. Firstly, after the amendment of the law, barriers to the marketing of investment funds in the European Union will disappear. Following changes, the rules on the withdrawal of investment funds from activities in another country will be clearly defined within the framework of the legal arrangements adopted. Secondly, the amendments to the Act are intended to make it easier for investment funds to carry out cross-border activities. Thirdly, the amendment of the law is also intended to introduce easier access to information on national market rules. Finally, fourthly, there is a change in the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. Some adjustments have also been made to EU funding rules. I'm a social worker. So the law, as I said, adapts solutions on the domestic market to European solutions. Although we have little time to make these changes, we have been informed by the government that this delay was linked to a broader consultation, that this law is better consulted and that potential interested recipients are better informed, better prepared and that this implementation will not result in certain perturbation on the Polish market or on the EU market with some delay. This explanation simply needs to be accepted, because there is no other solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u306	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When we started on this project in the Committee on Public Finance, and it was a question to the Minister whether there would be no contributions to this project other than those related to EU law, the Minister assured that there would be absolutely nothing - only what was in the project. This is a draft law on amending the Act on Investment Funds and managing alternative investment funds and the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. The Minister has barely left, and it turns out that there are five amendments grossly outside the scope of the project - public roads, toll motorways. But the biggest violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which has not yet happened, are the changes to the Code, which should be read twice here in the Seym Hall (The Bell) and not cut short by the committee. It's just a shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u308	Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Regulation on this issue is deliberate and even necessary. You may have reservations about individual records, but that's not what I wanted to say. I am wondering the following question - namely, why the same projector in the case of investment funds, where membership is voluntary, demands the provision of personal data together with the address of their representatives' residence, while asking for the hiding of identical data in relation to politicians, people on whom the fate of all Poles depends regardless of their will. If I could ask the Minister for a written reply, I would be very much obliged. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u310	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me answer Mrs Czernow's first question in her submission to the committee for first reading there were no changes other than those resulting from EU law, including the original submission, so the Minister rightly stated. On the other hand, the amendments tabled during the committee's meeting are entirely positive for citizens, and are related to the e-TOLL system already in operation, the new road toll collection system. They respond on the one hand to the mitigation of the risks associated with the use of this system, or in fact to system failures in the case of transport companies, by professional entrepreneurs, but not only, because also by users of motorways. In addition, because we have a transitional period, because from the operation of the viaTOLL system, the existing toll collection system, we move to the new eTOLL system, in order to encourage entrepreneurs and road users to use new solutions, such a discount mechanism was introduced as regards road charges for earlier entry into the system. All the proposed amendments are beneficial for citizens, road users and entrepreneurs. The second question, as suggested, will be answered in writing by Mr Shopiński. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u312	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Janczyk, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! As rapporteur for the committee, I would like to express my joy that no amendments to this document have been tabled at second reading. That's a big compliment on the work of the finance committee. Indeed, although the discussion lasted for many hours, the opportunity to express an opinion, comments on this document, which was being examined, and the fact that there are no amendments today, is only a big compliment to the work that was done on this document during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u314	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government's draft law on welfare and loan registers (prints 1313 and 1412). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft Law on Aid and Loan Funds from print No 1313 was the subject of first reading in the Committee on Public Finance on 20 July. The project didn't cause much controversy. Comments are mostly legislative proposals and ordering of the Legislative Offices of the Sejm. The activity of employee relief and loan banks, commonly known for years, has so far been regulated in the Trade Unions Act of 23 May 1991 and in the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 19 December 1992 on employee relief and loan banks and cooperative savings and credit banks in workplaces. As a result of the amendment of the Law on Trade Unions in force since 1 January 2019, which introduced the concept of employer and employee in place of the employer and the person carrying out the employment work, and as the issue of relief and lending banks is related to the activity of trade unions only indirectly through social control of trade unions over cash registers, it was decided to exclude from the Trade Unions Act provisions on relief and lending banks and to include them in a separate act. As a result of the solutions adopted in this Act in order to be a member of the relief and loan fund, you do not need to be a member of the trade unions, and credit unions may be created by an employer with whom there are no trade unions. The Act contains rules on the creation, organisation and operation of credit unions for employers and their liquidation. Specific provisions are to be included in the statutes of the relief and loan banks and the law specifies a whole range of those provisions which do not, however, form a closed catalogue. The employer can create 10 people working for the employer and not, as has been the case so far, 10 employees. As I mentioned, the difference is that the concept of a person doing a job is a broader concept than the concept of an employee, because it also includes, apart from those who earn a salary from the employment relationship, people like that. contractors or contractors of works, etc. The law also regulates the control over the activities of the relief and loan banks. All trade unions at the employer's place of control and, if there is no unanimity and agreement in this respect, the largest trade union. If there are no trade unions, which we also meet with, such control is exercised by the employee council. In the absence of a staff council, the control shall be exercised by the representation of the persons selected in accordance with the procedure adopted with the employer concerned. Thus, as I mentioned a moment ago, the control functions of trade unions vis-à-vis credit unions, e.g. by means of the right to convene a general meeting of the members of the cash register at the request of representatives of the trade union and to participate in it of the representative of the trade union. In addition, the draft contains provisions on compulsory and optional removal of members from the list of members of the relief and loan fund, lays down rules on the granting of loans and assistance, rules on the cancellation of a member of the board or of the audit committee before the end of the term of office and on the execution of supplementary elections, as well as on the payment of the costs of the inter-company relief and loan fund, and includes provisions on the payment of the Member's contribution, the adoption of a resolution on liquidation if the general meeting of the members makes such an initiative. The Act also contains provisions concerning the handling of data covered by GDPR, as well as an indication of the 18-month period for adapting the statutes to the provisions of the current Act - 18 months after its entry into force - and an 18-month period for notification to the national official register. Members' doubts during the committee's work raised the protection of personal data, particularly in this area, which concerns sensitive data related to health. The explanation from the Ministry is that health data will be required only if it is necessary to obtain aid in the form of loans or grants. A rather interesting proposal was also made to remove the assistance provided by the relief and loan funds from the execution. Various state institutions have submitted a lot of comments to the draft law - we have them in the protocol attached to the bill - both GIODO and Solvency and other trade unions, employers' representatives. I believe that not all the requests made by these bodies have been taken into account during the consultation, as is apparent from the information contained in the protocol. I think it would be worth relinquishing them, and some of these demands may still be taken into account at this stage of the procession. I would like to ask you, as rapporteur, for further examination of the draft law, which, as a single project on the activities of relief and lending banks, covers issues in a separate law as a whole. This will make it easier for those interested, often poorly moving in the legal field, to have access to the provisions of this law, which is used by many Poles. Many Poles have been benefiting from the benefits of the loan and relief funds for years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u316	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once again, I come to represent the club Law and Justice and the position of the club with regard to the draft law in print No 1313 on relief and loan registers, sent back after first reading, my dear country, to the committee. Yesterday, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy discussed this draft law at a joint meeting. During the work, my fellow country, several technical amendments tabled by the Legislative Office were discussed. These amendments regulate certain details and were mostly adopted, implemented in this project. As I mentioned in my first speech, I also stress now that welfare and loan funds are a very important part of self-help for workers and are a very important part of creating social economy, and social economy or building an informed society, as I said at the time, is one of the objectives and priorities of a well-functioning state. In this context, as the rapporteur has already pointed out in her speech on behalf of the committee, this proposal regulates, systematics, refines, harmonises the conceptual sphere with other provisions, even if implemented or related to the protection of personal data, GDPR or other laws. The most important element is that the provisions on relief and loan banks are removed from the trade union law and will be after the adoption of the law at third reading and in the subsequent procedure a separate law which will regulate this sphere. My fellow Member States, we hope that the codification of these provisions in a single legal act, in a separate law, will not only strengthen the position of the loan-aid banks, but will also encourage further entities to create them in different companies or by different employers, because the concept of the employer is also specified here. Of course, there are other changes in the conceptual sphere that have already been presented here, and so I will not quote them, just to remind you that the bill has a blank character, i.e. regulates only the essential, fundamental aspects of the operation of these cash registers, but also leaves the cash register or the members of the cash registers a great freedom to regulate further elements in the relevant statutes of these cash registers. Finally, I would like to stress that all the old and new management boards of the cash registers will have 18 months from the date of entry into force of this law to regulate these provisions according to the provisions of the new law. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, my fellow states, I fully recommend this bill and ask for its approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u318	Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u319	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law on relief and loan registers, print No 1313. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current regulations on the organisation and operation of relief and loan banks are contained in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 19 December 1992 on employee relief and loan banks and cooperative savings and credit banks in workplaces. On the other hand, the article. 39 of the Trade Unions Act of 23 May 1991 provides for the possibility of setting up relief and loan registers in workplaces and grants social supervision to trade unions over these cash registers. This draft law is a new legal act which contains all these previously mentioned provisions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law regulates, among others, the creation of relief and lending banks, the activities of these banks, the rights and obligations of the members of the relief and lending banks, the tasks of the statutory bodies and the financial economy of the relief and lending banks. The proposed law also contains criminal provisions relating to the prevention of a resolution on the liquidation of the relief and loan register in the event that the conditions for the operation of the cash register cease to exist. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question that raises doubts is that there is no regulation on the enforcement of benefits from the relief and loan fund, specifically the benefits of the aid. Assistance is a special kind of witness. It is an ad hoc, non-refundable financial aid normally granted for a specific purpose in connection with a random event or a serious disease. The exclusion from enforcement of such benefits is most appropriate, as it is provided as support or assistance, e.g. to treat costly diseases. No legal provision specifies for the moment whether the benefits from the relief and loan funds are excluded from execution, and it is worth writing this down clearly. At this point, I would like to make an amendment to supplement the catalogue of financial components which are not subject to execution on the basis of the insertion - the Code of Civil Procedure and the Law on Enforcement in Administration. I call on all of you to support this amendment because it is substantive and takes into account the humanitarian aspect. The other provisions contained in the draft law are the regulations on the basis of which the cashiers were able to carry out their activities. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u320	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, the position of the club on the government proposal for a law on relief and loan funds, contained in print No 1313, and the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. The bill, as I said at the first reading, was positively assessed by our club. We are positive about the fact that this matter has been included in a separate law, the matter concerning the provision-and-lending cash registers. These are broader than the trade union matter itself. Our surprise is only the fact that the government only 3 years after the amendment of the Trade Union Act presents this project. Aid-lending banks are a form of self-help, offering non-refundable benefits and low-interest loans to job providers, including pensioners and pensioners. Sometimes a loan from a relief and loan fund is the only way to obtain the necessary financial resources, free of additional costs in the form of commissions or interest, which is particularly important in difficult times, such as pandemics, as a healthy counterweight to pathologies lurking from everywhere on desperate people's moments or quick loans, pushing those in need only into subsequent loops of debt. Aid and loan funds are certainly not a remedy for tragically low wages in Poland, for tragically low pensions, for tragically low pensions, but are a form of self-help, a form of co-help. It is a good thing that such a pretty quality as camaraderie survived in this form in those bailouts that will now be governed by a separate law. This draft law was consulted socially and was also consulted by the National Cooperative Savings &amp; Credit Fund, which presented some proposals, some postulates. She received a letter from the Minister of Development, Work and Technology in November Ub. R. that all these comments have been taken into account. However, they have not been taken into account, and in principle one fundamental one has not been taken into account and came out at the next stage of the work on this project. The Left Parliamentary Club would therefore like to amend this proposed by the National Cooperative Savings and Credits Fund in its second reading. This amendment is to be based on the fact that after the article. 58 The following Article is inserted: 58a as follows: In the Act of 5 November 2009 on cooperative savings and credit banks in Article. In paragraph 10, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: 2 - I will no longer read the entire paragraph - after the words "housing communities" the words "and "credit-support" are added. The point is that historically cooperative savings and credit banks were set up in the workplaces, as is the case with those of our employee relief and lending banks, and the basis for creating both the provisions of the Art. 39 Trade Unions Act. They were supervised by trade unions. At that time, cooperative funds could only be organised by natural persons. This principle was maintained in 1995, but the next SKOK Act allowed the possibility of the members of the cash register not only of natural persons but also of non-governmental organisations, cooperatives, trade unions or housing communities operating among members. Thus, while the first phase of cooperative banks' operations could not be concerned with keeping the bank's accounts, it does not seem that the maintenance of the requirement to hold a bank-only deposit-and-lending bank account by future cashiers is currently justified. Hence, this change opening up the possibility to keep the bank accounts also by savings and credit banks operating in workplaces, and not only by banks. The Left Parliamentary Club also welcomes the fact that welfare and loan funds can be created everywhere, in any establishment, including a private, small company, and can be founded by people who provide work not only on the basis of a contract of employment, but also on the basis of work contracts or contract-orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u322	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives supports the bill on welfare and loan registers. As I said at first reading, this is a good, proven solution that operates in workplaces. It is good that we are trying to continue this form of support, mutual support, mutual assistance of workers in a sudden need at a time when there is a need support for certain maybe a small amount of money. Changes in the labour market or widespread new forms of work make it necessary to clarify some of the things that are happening in this law. We are therefore pleased that there is widespread support among clubs. This law did not raise much controversy, therefore the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party, as I said at the outset, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u324	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new law on relief-borrowing cash registers raises this to a higher level of law. Previously, the issue of the functioning of the cash register was distracted - it was included, among others. in the Regulation and the Trade Union Act. These rules have been in place since the early 1990s. This submission largely clarifies them. At the same time, the conceptual grid was harmonised. All this is intended to facilitate the application of the law today. These are favorable changes. The regulation contains rules on the creation, organisation and operation of cash registers for employers and, most importantly, sets out the necessary statutory elements while maintaining an open catalogue of details. It also specifies who is to control these cash registers: if there is a trade union, then a relationship, if there are several, then an agreement, and if there is no relationship, then a staff council or otherwise chosen representation of employees. Such cash in Poland is now about 934. Novum in this submission is an approach to setting up cash registers. 10 people are needed to create a bonus-borrowing money. So far, these 10 people must have been employees. Given what the labour market is like at the moment - civil law and contract contracts play an important role in employment - the law, which should also be assessed positively, meets expectations. Now it will have to be 10 people, but people doing work, not directly employees. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill isn't controversial, it doesn't arouse any great emotions. You know, it's not, and it's not gonna be a revolution in the financial world. We're talking about small money. At the same time, this law responds to needs and supports important ideas such as financial self-help, financial solidarity, cooperatives. These are important ideas that provide cheap money, provide access to support within the framework of self-organization. So that it should be assessed positively. Let us hope that the application of this law will not cause major problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u327	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government proposal for a law on relief and loan registers. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of this regulation is de facto to transfer from the Regulation to the law on the organisation of relief and loan banks. It is a formula of employee association, which has been working very well for many, many years. I think that most citizens - especially those who work in larger companies - have had the opportunity to use cash registers or are members of such organisations. This, of course, is, I would say, related to access to a reasonably friendly way of obtaining financial support for loans or assistance when the cash register has adequate funds. This allows Poles to carry out their plans. In view of the fact that the Ministry considered that, for the reasons mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, these provisions should be transferred from the Regulation to the level of the law, this draft appeared in the Sejm. He's almost the same as what was in the regulation. There are a number of things that can be discussed, even if the transfer to the status of the provision policy, or the definition directly in the act of security, of course with the possibility of clarification in the statute, but the project itself meets social expectations, is in line with what has been applied so far, so that the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will support it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. One minute. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I actually have one question. Since these banks are slightly over 1000, I would like to ask whether the government has analysed their condition and how much capital we can talk about for this group of entities. Did the Ministry analyze this? If so, please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u328	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As from 25 May 2018, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data shall apply. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that in this state of affairs it is necessary to include GDPR also in the proposed provisions. Why, then, is the amendment of the provisions resulting from the Regulation only now, 3 years after its introduction? The Act also provides that, in the event of the death of a member of the relief and loan fund, his debt will be covered by the reserve fund. What will happen if the funds from this fund are not sufficient to cover the debt of a member or members who died in a close period (the bell) and had liabilities to the loan counter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u330	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During my first reading of this project, I asked why trade unions have the role of hegemon in managing credit unions. Since the legislator allows the existence of several trade unions within a single establishment, limiting the amount of cash to one, entrusting it to the joint board of all, often conflicted trade union organisations, is probably not the best solution. Such a solution, especially in large companies involving the State Treasury, may lead to conflicts or even unequal, biased treatment of employees. That's my reflection. Are they good? I don't know. Will anyone answer me the question of what really is the situation of relief and loan banks in workplaces where there are several or several (Bell) trade unions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u332	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's a good project, and what's important is that it needs a project. Of course, these bailouts have been running for years. They have such good qualities associated with friendship, with support, with solidarity, but I think that the fact that these regulations will now be included in the Act is good for both borrowers, for employees and for employees themselves. I would like to say that often in such small workplaces, these cashiers had such a high level of camaraderie, that no one even wondered that it should be covered by some regulations. As a result, I think it is good that today we are investigating this project, that in many places of work people who work with money will have to read the rules, and more importantly, respect these rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I would like to ask if the designer has any knowledge of whether the maintenance of the aforementioned funds will burden the employer. Will this even result in an increase in costs for the employer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u335	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you to answer the question about possible embezzlements at the relief and loan counters. These embezzlements happen often. There are various types of articles and media reports about this, but we do not have any information about the scale of the crime. These are important instruments that allow employees to feel safe or to have joint and several support among themselves, so it would be worthwhile for the resort to also supervise, or to look at cases that could corrupt the good name of the relief and loan banks. I have a request for information as to whether you have such data, and if you do not have such data, what data do you have? possibly you are implementing procedures that could stop such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u337	Minister! I would like to ask you on the following matter. It is about introducing a person doing a job, this concept, instead of employees, who extends the possibility of creating cash registers, except for those who are employed under a contract of employment, work contracts or contract contracts. Are there also individuals in this catalogue who are engaged in a single business activity and as such are employed by employers, especially in the area of health protection? I know these practices are common. If there are at least 10 of these people, will they also be able to create a deposit fund? Personally, I think so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to make sure that they too can benefit from this valued institution of self-help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law on Aid &amp; Loan Funds, which in Poland is about 1 thousand. - It is very good that we are finally looking at it - it is a regulation on the transfer of the possibility of creating such cash registers from the level of the regulation to the level of the law, it is easier access to cheap money, loans to employees. The project meets social expectations. I have a question: Does the government have information on the condition in which these already existing loan-aid funds are already in place today? Are there sufficiently protected data of persons who apply for loans under the GDPR Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u340	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to reply to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mrs Olga Semenuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I answer your questions. The first question was about the cashier's assets. We didn't analyze it because the money is self-governing. And that's also the answer to the last question. There's no obligation. We would have to impose such an information obligation on the employer. This is not practiced and it is not in any provision of the bill. As regards the GDPR Act, please bear in mind that this law, which we are currently investigating, is being introduced and processed because of the amendment of the Trade Union Act and not the GDPR Act. If there is no real agreement between trade unions - now I answer the trade union question - control is exercised by the largest organization. And there's a record. As regards the fourth question concerning control, please note that in the draft law we are dealing with a review committee, which also exercises control. In addition, one person cannot serve in several bodies. These are the standards we want to maintain. Still looking at the rest of the questions... If, of course, there are questions that I haven't answered at this point, please... [[...persons operating...]] They can, I reply to you at once, that, as far as these 10 people are concerned, it is, of course, a possibility. They will be able to have that possibility. As far as embezzlement is concerned, because such a question has also arisen, please note that the provisions of the Penal Code apply here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u342	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u343	I just wanted to thank all the parliamentary clubs for their positive attitude, their positive approach to this project, which is rarely the case in this House. I hope that the amendments tabled will also receive support. I also thank the Minister for his comprehensive responses both during the work of the joint committees and today, during the work on this law in the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u344	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the new elements of the new law will be the possibility of creating a cash register by at least 10 people working for a given employer. The money will therefore be able to be founded not only by employees, but also e.g. The contractor, the contractor. At the same time, the reasons for this act are: the proposed regulation is private law and not public law, so those who can exercise social supervision over KZP do not have the means to intervene in the activities of the cash registers in power. Therefore, the use of the term "supervised' would be misleading and could also give rise to practical doubts. That is why they replaced supervision with a term "control," which does not include the possibility of interfering with a controlled entity in its meaning field. Therefore, what control tools will be transferred to workers so that they can clearly control the funds collected? What forms of appeal, security is provided for by the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u346	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema (prints No. 1340 and 1413). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema, print No. 1340. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Culture and Communications for first reading on 30 June 2021. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meetings on 8 and 20 July 2021 - I will add: after a consistent and efficient procedure - asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u348	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak by Mr Jarosław Zieliński, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Act on the revision of the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema, submitted to the High Sejm, is the implementation of Directive 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 amending the previous Directive of 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation and administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, called the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. The revision of European legislation has taken place in order to bring European and Member States' regulations into line with a rapidly growing and changing media market. According to the reasons for the implementation of the above Directive, the Polish legal order is to be amended by amending the provisions of the Act on Radiophony and Television, the Act of 29 December 1992. The amendment of this law sets out the rules and conditions for carrying out activities in the field of the provision of media services, as well as video-sharing platforms, the division of powers between State authorities in the field of regulation and supervision, the rights and obligations of media service providers and video-sharing platforms, as well as the rights of recipients of these services and the conditions for the pursuit of the public interest in radio and television. Most of the implementation changes have been introduced within the framework of the current structure of the Radio and Television Act, with certain changes, of course, resulting from the indications, from the recitals of the Directive. However, an important chapter on the subject was added. Video sharing platforms. The subject of the amendment includes, inter alia, jurisdiction over media service providers, as well as the competence and functioning of the National Radio and Television Council. Among other things, it follows. to extend its competence to activities in relation to video-sharing platforms. Further: the subject of the amendment includes the modification of statutory definitions, including: the definition of commercial communications, product sponsorship and placement, as well as information obligations of media service providers, including on the ownership structure of the media, in line with the very important wording of the directive, I quote: Transparency of media ownership is directly linked to freedom of expression, the foundation of democratic systems. Information on the ownership structure of media service providers, if such ownership results in control of the content of the services provided or significant impact on this content - and let us add that this is usually the case - allows users to consciously assess such content. In Polish practice we lacked implementation of this indication for many years. The subject of this amendment also includes commercial communications in media services, e.g. the permissible time limit for advertising and teleshopping, the protection of programmes and programmes for children, as well as for media services, the protection of consumers, including minors, against undesirable content affecting their physical and mental development or threatening to promote attitudes that are not socially acceptable, such as racism, xenophobia and others. It also includes the promotion of European creativity in media services by requiring a specific participation of European broadcasts in television programmes, the so-called. European quota - in an audiovisual service at the request of 30% of the catalogue are to be European works, which is now 20%. Further: the subject of the regulation includes facilities for persons with disabilities so that, under the directive, media services become, with proportionate measures and continuously more and more accessible to persons with disabilities, as well as the regulation of video-sharing platforms, which so far have not been properly regulated and which are increasingly competing, increasingly on the market with the same recipients and the same financial revenues as audiovisual media services and have a strong impact on the public. The provisions of the Directive are probably rational in the assessment of all Members, because they were indeed in agreement with the committee and were exceptionally not controversial. Therefore, their implementation into the legal order, first prepared by the subcommittee, later by the committee, was adopted unanimously, as evidenced by the outcome of the vote in the Committee on Culture and Communications. The requirements of the European Directive are reflected in the draft in a rational manner, meeting the requirements of the Directive and maintaining (The Bell) the autonomous assessment of Polish media realities and standards of social expectations. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema submitted to the High Sejm by the Committee on Culture and Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u350	Thank you. Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, it is true that this implementation of the European Directive brings us really many good solutions. These solutions were found in the cultural committee's report. Therefore, I will no longer focus on what my predecessor said, pointing out these good solutions. I would like to focus on those with whom we disagree or who we would like to protest in some way. So I would like to say that apart from all the good solutions that are in this implementation, it is worth paying attention to three issues. First of all, this is a matter in which we refer to child protection. There is freedom in this regulation. If there's any way, we can use that freedom. For there is a record in the report that tells us that we are protecting children - there are several such records that actually concern them - but at the same time, for example. movies that last more than an hour can be interrupted by advertising. Unfortunately, this advertising message for children is already really enough between programs that last, say, 15 minutes or several minutes, so there is no reason for us to give in here. In the case of a particularly sensitive group of audiences such as children, we do not need to put in a film intended for them, even an hour's advertising. I therefore know that such amendments will be found, we will discuss them, we will vote on them, but also on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to make such an amendment to your marshal. I really don't see why we should give up here. That's one thing. The second issue concerns programmes or services, the availability of VOD services for people with disabilities. We like this very much, and we are very pleased that this project requires providers of audiovisual services on demand to provide at least 30% programmes placed in a catalogue containing adaptations or amenities for persons with disabilities. I am talking about this because in our legislation we have also made sure that these people have really good access, and among others. the current law envisages gradually increasing the availability of programmes to 50% in 2025 It's really very good and it's worth emphasising. On the other hand, it is worth noting, as regards the draft law, that the implementing Audiovisual Media Services Directive points out the importance of information on the ownership structure of media service providers for the recipients of these services. Okay, it's okay, provided we don't follow what's written into this bill, which is that you're going to get this information too detailed. Therefore, we believe that there is no need for such detailed data, especially sensitive data, to show. And one more thing, namely the last part of this directive refers to the National Radio and Television Council. In addition, I would like to point out one thing that the directive requires that the decision to revoke the members of the regulatory authority be justified. Therefore, the draft law introduces an obligation to justify the resolution of the Sejm or Senate or the President's order to reject the report of the National Radio and Television Council. And that record suddenly disappeared. You believe that there is no need for particular reasons to justify why members of the National Radio Board are being dismissed. We believe that at this very moment it is worth using this provision of the directive in the law and really the President should be obliged to justify the appeal of the members of the National Radio and Television Council. These are little things, but I think they are very important. The remaining provisions of the implementation of the directive on the ground of Polish law are very right. Only that you can see a little lack of logic in the actions of the rulers today. On the one hand, a directive is being introduced, and we praise you for it, but with the other hand you are working on some legislation in another law that we will talk about next week, and these are definitely threatening freedom of speech. So I think that if you went the right way and worked together with the European Union, there would certainly be no other problems. Thank you very much. I'd like to make an amendment on behalf of our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u352	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to what Mrs Augustine has said, I would like to disagree with one phrase that fell out of her mouth. Namely, she talked about some minor nature of this withdrawal of the justification for the order of the President of the Republic in the case of non-granting the receipt of the members of the National Radio and Television Council, i.e. the regulatory body... This is one of the main issues on which the parliamentary club of the Left, which I have the honour to represent here, draws attention and welcomes. It is with similar satisfaction that we accept the presentation of government legislation introducing European legislation into the Polish legal order. We treat this as one of the main points, because from this point on, since the adoption of this government proposal and the transition of the whole legislative procedure, Poland will be obliged to translate, explain and ensure that the independence of regulatory authorities in the Polish legal order is ensured, and is not with what we know best. So, in a sense, we can say that the Government of Law and Justice is creating problems that, of course, we will be happy to help resolve by ensuring that regulators, both the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council, have a guarantee of independence. He speaks clearly and clearly of this article. 30 Directives on audiovisual media services. Another reason why this amendment is needed in our opinion is, of course, to bring Polish law into line with EU law, and EU rights to the requirements of modern times. There are provisions on the registration of providers of video-sharing platforms, i.e. a new technologically - relatively new, for the speed of European legislation - the form of social communication. This is important enough to ask the question - and this is the next important information, I also say it to the governing coalition - how to ensure the jurisdiction of the Republic of Poland over the providers of these video sharing services if they do not broadcast from the territory of the Republic of Poland or if the location of such a provider of video sharing platforms is not located in the territory of the Republic of Poland or even within the European Economic Area. And here we come to the famous, although this law theoretically has nothing to do with this, lex TVN, because here's the interesting thing: by implementing Directive 1808 of 2018, we introduce into the Polish legal order regulations that solve the problem not by means of blunt tools interfering in ownership structure, and by means of much more subtle legal mechanisms ensuring jurisdiction of the Polish state over such entities. Perhaps the Government of Law and Justice would like to read and learn from its own submissions if you already want to ensure such jurisdiction and control over the content and the provider of audiovisual services, because the legal order permits it. Maybe it's worth reading these laws and the presentations you're presenting to us here. Finally, the third point, already very detailed, concrete, concerning, so to speak, the interests of sports fans. It is one of the amendments that allows advertising to be posted during sports broadcasts, but during this broadcast, not on natural breaks, not after programs, but during them, for example. the possibility of criminal justice or burnt out is proven whether any other faults are found - it is in the case of football, but it is similar in the case of other disciplines. The bill allows for the issue of one advertisement during such a broadcast. We oppose this, we believe that sports fans should have the right to this (The Bell) so that in peace this program, this game, is a spectacle to watch, which is why I am submitting this motion to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Bożena Żalewska, the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u355	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinema, print No. 1340. This project implements into Polish law the European Parliament Directive of 14 November 2018 amending the European Union Directive on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services due to developments in the media market. The most important assumptions of the bill are the introduction of regulations on the operation of video-sharing platforms. The draft law, following the directive, extends the scope of regulation for video-sharing platforms. This amendment modifies the rules for placing commercial communications in media services. This change will modify consumer protection regulations, in particular for minors, against harmful content. The broadcasters and suppliers will have to inform the audience in each programme about the content that these broadcasts contain, and so parents will be able to make informed decisions regarding the choice of content that children view. This amendment also modifies the principles of promoting and promoting European creativity by media service providers - from 20% to 30%. It also modifies rules on the use of facilities for persons with disabilities in audiovisual media services. The draft law requires audiovisual service providers to ensure that at least 30% The programmes placed in the catalogue included amenities for people with disabilities. The amount of facilities will be gradually increased from 5% in 2022 to 30% in 2025. It also amended the information obligations of media service providers. Consequently, the draft law requires broadcasters, media service providers and platform providers to make available on the website of the entity information on the persons managing the entity and information on the ownership structure. In view of the above and the recommendation of the subcommittee, which was created in order to examine in detail the changes to this project, I recommend that the High House adopt this amendment and inform you that the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats and Conservatives will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u356	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Law was intended to bring the Directive of the European Parliament into line with national law by 20 September 2020. I'd like to ask you why it's so late. But why do applicants want to introduce rules which, according to this directive, are not mandatory at all? Therefore, near Poland 2050 wants to convince Members of our amendments again. The introduction of the possibility of interrupting sports broadcasts with single advertisements provided for in the draft law goes far beyond the existing legal restrictions. Advertising can even interfere with sports broadcasts. Even Marek Suski voted in favour of our amendment yesterday at the committee meeting. I believe that it will convince a larger group of PiS Members, and I am pleased that Janusz Kowalski is nodding his head, because as a sports lover he will certainly raise his hand in favour of this amendment. With regard to programmes addressed to children, there is no justification for moving away from the existing ban on advertising. Leaving such a restriction stems from the position of experts, educators, child psychologists, sociologists about the child's defenselessness of mind towards advertising messages and about their serious harm to the development of the child's psyche. At this point, I thank Mr Zieliński, who voted in favour of this amendment yesterday. We care more about corporate rights, Minister, but do we care more about children's rights? Corporate at the expense of children? A huge question mark. Directive, in accordance with its Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 gives Member States the possibility to prohibit the sponsorship of children's programmes. In view of the well-being of children and the need to prevent them from transmitting strongly related to very specific products addressed to children whose producer will be sponsored, I will repeat once again: it is appropriate to introduce such a ban. It is permissible under this Directive. Therefore, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 makes four amendments to the hands of the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? If nobody, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Jan Szopiński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u359	Thank you kindly, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Your Marshal, I apologize for the expression at once, but I find it difficult to call it a different idea. I wanted to ask you who came up with the idea of interrupting the children's advertising programs. This is a stupid idea, a very, very stupid idea. In the interests of corporations, Minister, I agree, in the interests of corporations, you have the right to do so, while advertising has a very negative effect on children. Children, in fact, without any reflection, which is natural for this age, receive advertisements, and they can manipulate in a very simple way. Of course, at a certain age, this causes conflicts between children and parents. On the other hand, the government seems to be more on the corporate side than on the family side than on the side of some moderation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Already today the programs are interrupted: between one and the other program, one and the other fairy tale we see that there are adverts, there are advertising blocks. That's quite enough. Question, Minister: Why is the government even more willing to go to the hands of corporations, to interrupt and to charge children with harmful advertising? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u360	Thank you, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. [[Voice from the room: He is present.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have Polish Television with 16 regional branches, providing residents with the largest centres with daily portion of information from their immediate vicinity. Here we have the adaptation of Polish law to EU law, but only? Why is this law so broad and not only adapts it to European Union law? Why does the government, instead of addressing the development of these regional centres and increasing their participation in the TV framework, focus its attention on the possibility of disabling Poles from using Netflix, HBO platforms and services of dozens of other entertainment content providers? How does the government imagine reporting social media content? Who and how will verify the content made available by audiovisual (Bell) media service providers? Why is the government planning to cut Poles off from the possibilities and from the broadcasters of electronic content? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u362	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me ask you a question about people with disabilities. Namely, the amendment provides for a modification of the rules on the use of amenities for persons with disabilities in on-demand audiovisual media services. It imposes obligations on audiovisual service broadcasters to ensure that at least 30% The programmes placed in the catalogue included amenities for people with disabilities. I wanted to ask you a question regarding deaf and deaf people, referring to the research carried out by researchers of the Institute of Applied Linguistics of the University of Warsaw, which showed that in 2020 television was only very limited in compliance with the imposed limit of translations in sign language and this year, i.e. in 2020, it was 3% of quarterly broadcasting without advertising in information and publication programmes, 1,5% in universal programs, and even less was in low-range programs. Now I wanted to ask (the bell), referring to the constitutional principle of access to information which programs will be translated into sign language, to what extent, to what amounts and at what times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u364	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to go back to the topic of interrupting advertising programmes and influences, who was a lobbyist on the subject, because we received requests for parliamentary mailboxes, that these specific provisions concerning the interruption of programmes for children, educational programmes or what Mr Robert Kwiatkowski said were elements that were pressured to introduce additional funding for public television, that it was public television that insisted that such provisions could be put in place that would simply enable the company's budget to be increased. Of course, it can be said that this is a state-owned company, but I would like to go back to a normal discussion about whether it should be realized, because for years such concepts have never been implemented, and today it seems that for one state-owned company the entire media law is being demolished (the bell). Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law aims to implement the Directive as amended in 2018 on audiovisual media services, and this Directive introduces new and essential provisions on the independence of national regulatory authorities. In Poland, this regulatory authority is the National Radio and Television Council. The project mentions that competences will be supplemented and clarified, but there is no lack of political independence of the National Radio and Television Council, which is politically appointed. Meanwhile, last year, November Ub. The European Commission noted, when discussing the rule of law in EU countries, the threat in terms of freedom and pluralism of the media in Poland in the context of the politicalisation of media authorities. How does the government intend to regulate the independence of the National Radio and Television Council, political independence in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u369	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is heading in the right direction, but there's one point that we're all talking about here when it comes to advertising. Ladies and gentlemen, today's world is a picture world. We're not reading. We're just looking at pictures. Today's world is a world of advertising. We're not analyzing, we're just buying what is dictated by advertising, which is often repeatable. Plus, this attempt to get advertising into sports shows at the most significant moments. Sport fans want to feel the breath of an athlete, want to know what the atmosphere is like, what's going on. This is what we focus mainly on, not the fact that at a given moment, at this most exciting moment, there is advertising. And one last thing. When we talk about freedom of the media, let us remember that free media (the bell), free press, free access to various kinds of information is the basis of a democratic and free state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u370	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Jarosław Sellin's Minister of Culture now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u371	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, because we talked about this at the committee meeting, that the law implementing the European Union directive is so designed that we do not go beyond what is required by the EU directive. We have tried not to include in this law any additional things other than those arising from the directive itself. This law has been consulted for almost a year, because since September Ub. r., with the market, with public media, with commercial media, with VOD platforms, with regulatory authorities of the type National Radio and Television Council or the National Media Council, and it seems to us that such a common sense consensus has been built in relation to the solutions that we propose in this law. I think it is, too, because we see it in parliamentary work. At both the committee meeting - twice already - and at the meeting of the specially appointed subcommittee, this law did not raise much controversy. The consensus around the issues needed to regulate is clearly felt, because indeed since we have the Radio and Television Act, the cinema bill, it has passed: in the first case - more than 25 years, in the second case - 16 years, and the market is changing and some things need to be adapted to the changed market. This was also the intention of the directive to introduce these changes throughout the European Union in view of market developments. Mr Gawkowski has already left, but I would like to say that his accusation is absolutely wrong, because I will remind you - in a moment's time I will develop - that all these dilemmas and doubts about interrupting the broadcasts are not about public television. I'm very keen on that. No film or children's broadcast may be interrupted by advertising on public television, and such a charge was formulated by Mr Gawkowski. We are talking about some changes, but only with regard to commercial media. And I'm going to say that right away, because there's been a lot of comments about interrupting a movie that's a children's show and advertising. According to the Directive, I will quote the text, this is the proposal: The issue of children's broadcasts can only be interrupted by television advertising once in the course of each scheduled programme period of no less than 30 minutes, provided that the duration of the programme provided for in the programme is longer than 30 minutes. This is the proposal contained in the Directive. However, we are not going that far, and I would like to emphasise that very strongly. The draft law prepared by us only partially implements the provision of this directive and introduces the possibility of interrupting certain programmes for children in the Polish order, but it is a more limited provision than the directive implies. The directive allows the interruption of children's programmes lasting more than 30 minutes, and we propose that only films lasting more than 60 minutes be interrupted. To be honest, who knows the market, knows that children's programmes generally do not last more than an hour. If something lasts longer, it's Pixar's movies, those big Hollywood movies that have the dimension of movies. They can be treated as programmes for children, but they can also be treated as family cinema simply, family cinema, which has a commercial dimension. In this case, we will actually allow commercial publishers to interrupt advertising with such a family film, so let's call it, after 60 minutes - not after 30 minutes, but after 60 minutes - because it raises the question whether these great movies of Pixar, cinema, American, are programmes for children or is it a family cinema. I think it's more like a family movie, and these movies are gonna be interrupted. There are usually no children's programmes lasting more than 60 minutes. And this is, of course, related to the need for broadcasters to bear the costs of obtaining such films. We want Polish broadcasters to have no worse situation than European broadcasters so that they also have the opportunity to acquire such programmes on the market and are not in a worse situation because they cannot broadcast advertising after 60 minutes. The second set of comments concerned the independence of the National Radio and Television Council. This independence is guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The National Council is a constitutional body, which is rare in European legislation, and we are a constitutional body, and this independence is guaranteed both by the Constitution and by the existing Radio and Television Act. The amendment only concerns the fact that so far, for more than a quarter of a century, the term of office of the National Radio and Television Council in the current composition of its members may be interrupted if the Sejm, the Senate, fails to accept the report and the President's failure to confirm it. The provisions of the directive required that this failure to accept reports should be justified in order to justify such a political decision by the Sejm or the Senate, and that is what we are introducing. If the Sejm decides to cancel the members of the National Council, it must be justified not to adopt the report - the same as the Senate. [[And the president?]] The President is relieved of his obligation to state his reasons... [[Why?]] ... because in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the In no case shall the Constitution provide for any provision of the obligation to justify the provision. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Isn't it allowed?]] So we cannot make an exception in this case, because it would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: No, not with a constitution.]] If such resolutions are adopted by the Sejm and the Senate, they must justify it, while the President, in the procedure of confirming any of these resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate, does not have to provide such justification. As far as the comments on sport are concerned, mainly Mr Zimoch was active in the committee on this matter, but also other Members in the stand have taken this issue, we are indeed introducing the principle that it is permissible to interrupt the broadcasting of sports competitions in order to give a single advertisement. The directive states, I quote: Single television advertising and teleshopping spots are acceptable during sporting events. Single television advertising and teleshopping spots, other than those placed during the broadcast of sports events, must be an exception. The proposed article takes into account the provision of this Directive, as well as the proposals made by the market and the National Radio and Television Council in the course of a public consultation. The aim is to enable broadcasters to finance expensive - we all know - sports broadcasting rights and equalise the competitive conditions of Polish broadcasters vis-à-vis foreign competition. It should be noted that many television programmes offering access to sports broadcasts in Poland fall under the jurisdiction of another Member State, e.g. popular in Poland Eurosport. He would have the right, and our broadcasters wouldn't have the right. Many of them already on the basis of the existing regulations adopted in these Member States significantly more frequently interrupt sports broadcasts, also in order to give a single advertising spot. The purpose of this provision is to allow broadcasters to place individual advertising spots e.g. in natural breaks in competitions that do not come from the rules on playing out the competitions concerned - e.g. break during the ski jump competition due to bad weather - or during breaks placed in the transmission by the entity from which the sender acquires the right to issue it, e.g. in the case of several hours of cycling races, the operators preparing the transmission shall introduce several-second breaks so that the sender can put in advertising at that time. Furthermore, thanks to the introduced regulation, it will be possible to broadcast an advertising spot on a part of the screen during a sports broadcast. This is also technically possible now: we watch sports broadcasts all the time, and some advertising is on part of the screen. As far as jurisdiction over foreign entities is concerned, the regulation we propose concerns this issue to a limited extent, only vis-à-vis broadcasters and VOD providers and only in terms of the obligation to charge to the Polish Film Institute. We are looking for balance here, because these broadcasters draw revenue in the territory of the Republic of Poland and should pay fees to the Polish Institute of Film Art, like everyone else who uses the Polish market, also have some connection with the film industry and should support Polish cinema. So that this regulation only applies to this. As regards the very detailed questions: Mr Szopiński from the Left and Mrs Nowogórska from the Polish Coalition, we will answer them in writing in accordance with my wish and my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u372	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 7:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 15 h 19 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education and Science - Przemysław Czarnka (prints No. 1395 and 1409). I ask Mr Rafał Grupiński to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By requesting the cancellation of Minister Przemysław Czarnek, I would like to point out that I will argue hic et nunc - in one of the parliaments of the European Union and in one of the most important languages of the Union. I will not only talk about pure politics, I will also allow myself to go on a journey into history and hope to understand it by the rulers, among whom I see many, maybe not as many as it should be, graduates of a famous Krakow social agency, which I still respect. To answer the question of how far you are trying to turn us back into the past, Minister, and how far this past may be from you not only wiser, but braver, let us ask another question. Why is it that Minister Czarnek is responsible for education and Polish science, why this sudden triumph of obscurantism, even aggression, even for your standards? This is explained by the author in Politics. en: Minister Czarnek does not play diplomacy and is therefore in education and not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He was sent to a particularly difficult section of the front, neglected in the previous years of the PiS government. But the minister doesn't let himself be labeled so easily and says, for example. Yes: The Court of Justice of the European Union is discredited because it does not act under the law. The TSUE must be stopped from dismantling the European Union, because it will not go far. This outrageous subtlety of the language graduate of the Faculty of Law of KUL, the Minister of Education tells me to repeat: yes, with such a minister the Polish school will not go further. [[Applause]] Let's say again why Blackie. Why should Minister Czarnek manage education? When support crumbles, when money runs out, there is only one thing left for the Polish ruling party: the tightening of the ideological war. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] Because based on the Soviet system, someone has rightly called it the Russian order recently, you have accepted the principle that you must have an enemy to keep voters in constant mobilization. [[The voice from the room said the one who photographed himself with Putin.]] This serves to keep citizens in constant danger, to consolidate power, as well as efforts for the party. This is what Comrade Jakub Berman once said about governing: we need to divide people so that they can start arguing. Is this a model for your president? [[Voice from the room: How many years have you been doing this? The whole industry...]] So let's look at what happens in Polish education in the long term. Why really did Mr Kaczyński, President Kaczyński appoint Minister Czarnek? That's ab ovo. Since more than a quarter of a century, after 1989 there has been a permanent process of occidentization of Poland - a thing for the future and independence of Poland key. That's, among other things. blocking this process in the 18th century, including the reform of the Constitution on 3 May and the National Education Commission, led to the collapse of the First Republic. The authors of those reforms did not just anchor us hard enough in the West. Now you, of your own desire - I am talking about the ruling party - or worse, maybe at the request of Russia you are again trying to block the process of occidentization of Poland. Fernand Braudel pointed out long processes in history - our Polish, I dare say, will not end. The fall of the state, the partitions, the wars, the communism... We were one step away from breaking the fatality of our history, but Mr. Kaczyński came from PiS and you were joined by Minister Czarnek. I started blocking and destroying civil rights, independence of courts, freedom of expression in culture and science, as well as a light principle of tolerance for all minorities, which was increasingly said for happiness in the Polish school, which was light in principle. The problem is that Minister Czarnek appeared and decided to extinguish the light in Polish education and science. [[Voice from the room: Hurts.]] Words have their influence. They can give hope, can seduce, serve to call for violence and even hate. You are a party ruling the first environment in the history of politics that has decided to reverse the meaning, meaning of words. [[A voice from the hall: He only loves his homeland...]] For example, using elevated words about Christendom, but not to build a world of values, but to exclude others, to sow contempt and hatred of those who think differently. The activity of the Minister of Education, which brings new sensations every day, is excellent proof that by actually changing the Law and Justice into a kind of political sect, you make religion a political tool to exclude the majority of citizens from the national community according to your key. Now you want to introduce this sick policy into schools under the pretence of their supposed defense against hostile ideologies, because you want to push your ideology into them, because you are no longer a democratic party, but an environment of people who will use everything, even faith, not just to rob the state. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We defend the children, Mr President.]] But above all, to block the Polish foothills back to the heart of Europe. Minister Czarnek, like a brave Komsomol, promises to fight aliens. To us, liberal ideas, leftist ideas, from the rotten, rotten West. Isn't that right? Exactly. These words, apart from the minister's name, are a quote from the People's Tribune. You've become so mentally similar to Communists that you speak their language and use their methods. Unfortunately, you also speak in one choir with a part of the Church. Archbishop Jędraszewski speaks of rainbow plague. Minister of Education and Science Mr Czarnek - about neomarksist plague, worse than Bolshevik. Let me remind you that the Nazis were talking about the Jewish plague. This is the language of exclusion. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And this is the language of hatred.]] [[This language you speak is the language of contempt for another man.]] Your capital is darkness, not Warsaw. The sign is backwards, not progress. And the language - misogynism, not solidarity with the weaker. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This is the language of contempt.]] In the latter one, you specialize in the Minister punished by the parliamentary ethics committee for claiming that LGBT people are not normal people, and human rights are idiotic. [[He didn't say that, so don't lie.]] I applied for it. [[Applause]] Maybe the Bureau called it off, the committee condemned it. [[Voice from the room: You can insult us.]] And this sick ideological world you want to push into the Polish school. [[Voice from the room: We are tolerant.]] Well, let's look at it from two poles: faith versus science and social order. You want, Minister, unfortunately, together with a part of the Church, which has been turned into your golden carriage of messengers, education has been pushed into the past into the worst of times... [[That's tolerance?]] ...a counter-reformation when even Latin has been barbarized. [[Applause]] [[The Decalogue is bothering you.]] It is not the Middle Ages, as many of your opponents write, because the Middle Ages created free universities, grounds for free learning, as well as the free market, for a free economy. [[Applause]] [[Freedom is not freedom.]] Albert the Great separated natural sciences from theology. His disciple Thomas of Aquinas spoke of science as an activity of reason, and theology was called science. What's that? Speculate only. Meanwhile, Minister Czarnek wants to poison Polish education for many years and for example. At universities, he wants to allow total nonsense to be tolerated, what will lift the saliva from the so-called. the post-truth world, without basing these views on science or scientific methods under the pretext of the freedom package. A lot has been heard lately about young people getting out of their religious lessons. The Minister has a strange prescription, he has decided to bring this trend to an end with his fanaticism. To deprive the entire mystery and power of the Tertullian credo quia absurd, to deprive the secret, to force the generation of its ideology, it must be called national-Catholic, although it has little to do with Catholicism. [[Voice from the room: Better gender.]] You're gonna get a minister by the elbows, you're gonna get a parole officer full of ideology wheelbarrows to school, and that's gonna end with social secularization and the areligion of the entire young generation. That's what you're gonna do. [[Applause]] You are withdrawing the Polish school even before the time of the reform of Bishop. Michał Poniatowski, who led the National Education Commission. He modernised schools and sent Kołłątaja to the Krakow Academy so that the mathematical and natural sciences would have the primacy there. And you do everything the other way around. You're in a hurry, Minister, so far away that there's still time and Fr. You tell Boniecki to get rid of him, to test the water, to see if he's a Christian. [[Applause]] As part of the fight against the process of occidentisation of the Republic of Poland, the Minister of Education pushes the catechists and the backward approach to faith in the ethical programme. Who's gonna train with an express, blindly new ethics teacher? Mostly Catholic universities of course, Tadeusz Rydzyk and Ordo Iuris. Oh, great. There's no need to remind women of these universities. [[Why do you discriminate against Christianity?]] Besides, Rydzyk school graduates already work in public media, e.g. We know how they treat ethics. [[Voice from the hall: Why do you discriminate against universities?]] Let us be clear: students and students are to be subjected to indoctrination. [[This is a speech of hatred, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] That's your goal. How to implement these ideas? Quote: In some situations the application of physical punishment, physical punishment may be necessary - warns the Minister of Education. Let me remind you, Minister, that Poland was the first country to endure the physical punishment in schools. [[Applause]] King Stanisław August Poniatowski. The killers stopped this process of school violence. [[Voice from the room: Mental fossils.]] Now what does the Minister say? That discipline is one of the most important educational measures. But your parole officer. Nowak's moving on. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] He's moving on. She's the minister's favorite. He says that in schools, blockers are used to stop sexual development, and during the Women's Strike, children were treated with alcohol and drugs. It does not say that an inconvenient teacher may soon be entitled to an abortion, leading to the fact that he will be the object of some forbidden act. Mr Kaczyński is not here, but I must say that your team is getting more and more fanatical, Mr President. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister.]] These are actually blockers, but the blockers of reason and knowledge. At your place. [[Applause]] Examples: penalties with immediate loss of work for the director, which e.g. He's gonna invite Adam Bodnar to discuss the school constitution. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] He will be charged with spreading leftist, neomarksist ideology, for example, by the probation officer. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why...?]] And God forbid anyone invited says that LGBT citizens have equal rights like us. Then we will hear that we must tighten the Penal Code and punish such a director. Unfortunately, Minister Czarnek shouts, and this is a quote: No more brainwashing children by hostile ideologies. What kind of language is that? [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: End.]] Adds a smaller print that only us, PiS, can brainwash young people, inculcate them with the only correct ideology of the Polish ruling party. The shortcut is great - PPR. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where did you read this?]] An example? Please. The Minister said: we want to fight for parents to influence the upbringing of children, not leftist NGOs. Yeah, but what does it turn out to be? That you really take away teachers, parents, young people's right to set up additional classes because the probation officer has to agree to such classes first. [[Voice in the room: He's not picking up anything, he's just giving...]] This is censorship. This is preventive censorship, Minister. She was in the PRL, so you should move the ministry to the street. A mouse. Perhaps your heart beats there, there are your sentiments. [[Applause]] You want to cancel the directors within 14 days because that's what the parole officer's gonna want. [[Voice from the hall:...why do we need an airport in Poland like...]] I'm not talking about the Minister's advisors, because this is already a scandal. One of these counselors began to talk about the spiritual corruption of women through which they close to fertility. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I will answer you with a quote from Eliza Peanut's text 130 years ago, surely this is a leftist celebrity: Science is a torch, which fills the palace of virtue with abundant light, illuminating its corners. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The work can again be compared to the pilgrim's stick, which stops from falling on the roads of life. So it happened very well and happily that women began fighting for this torch and for this guiding thread. [[Applause]] I specifically chose this passage for you from the numerous publications about Eliza Orzeczkowa's women, because it is an open letter to German women. I know how you live up to the word German. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Member of Bożen Borys-Szopa: But here is Poland.]] I gotta go. [[You're running out of time.]] Language of exclusion. You haven't noticed yet, Minister, what language are you using, Minister of Education? [[Anything to justify an appeal?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Time is running out and we have not heard the justification for the proposal.]] As in the Soviet system, you divide the world into external and internal enemies. Do you need the knowledge of Klemperer to understand the rocks of the Polish state? You reached in the language for the methods of brown, red totalitarianism to gain and maintain power by the methods created by the enemy. [[Applause]] Now you want to introduce these divisions and this hatred into the Polish school. Mr. President, where are you? [[President Kaczyński again. Are you obsessed, sir?]] I warn you, it's aggression, and it's aggression against Polish families. [[Voice from the room: This is not aggression.]] This has got to end badly. [[Applause]] Of course, you call aggression towards Polish families care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: End.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Finally, time.]] Minister, instead of playing the Herostrates of Polish education and science, why don't you at least show yourself in a manly way and just pack up and walk away? We'll call you off. [[Applause]] [[This is the hope of Polish science, and you wish him to leave?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u374	I kindly ask those of you who have not provided medical certificates to wear masks. [[Voice from the room: On the assumption, you can dress it up...]] I now ask Mrs Agnieszka Górska to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u375	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek, prints 1395 and 1409. Your Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Ladies and gentlemen. I will try to give these few minutes the turbulent atmosphere of the committee's meeting with regard to the importance of the subject under consideration. The applicant's representative has provided a justification. He pointed to reservations about the constitutional right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own views, the right of pupils to learn in the conditions necessary for their development, the right to learn to freedom of expression and the autonomy of higher education as expressed in Article. 70. The first person to take the floor in the discussion, which cannot be mentioned during the reporting of the committee meeting and the presentation of opinions, was the Minister of Education in the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, the icon of applicants. Prosecution, she said, among others. about restricting parents' rights to raise their children. She is a Member who has already served as Minister of Education on behalf of the current applicants. [[It's for the Black Man.]] Members pointed out that her actions were not significant in the history of Polish education. On the contrary. It was during these governments that thousands of schools were shut down. [[The voice from the room: Does it hurt?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a committee report. Get to the point.]] In 2015, 5 000 were at risk of decommissioning. schools. [[Voice from the room: you're lying.]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Teacher salary increases have been frozen. [[Voice from the Chamber:...democracy.]] At that time, there was no question of parents' rights. Six-year-old children were pushed into schools. It was 2012. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's for the Black Man.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Stop disturbing the Member, allow her to present a report.]] This cost PLN 244 million from the budget. [[Voice from the Chamber: Report from the committee.]] The basics of the program were mutilated, and in defense of history lessons... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desks.]] [[Voice from the room: About.]] Excuse me, Marshal. Member, please stop for a moment. [[Voice from the room: He's lying.]] I want you to come to your senses. You're welcome, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the hall: This was not at the committee meeting.]] [[The voice from the hall: The lady is lying.]] You're not at the diner. The heroes of Solidarity voted in defense of history's lesson. You're in the Seym, be decent. [[The voice from the hall: The lady is lying.]] [[Voice from the hall: But that wasn't at the committee meeting.]] You're reporting on the committee meeting, so don't interrupt it. [[He's lying.]] He's got 15 minutes. [[Voice from the hall: This was not at the committee meeting.]] [[Of course it was, sir.]] [[He has every right to say what happened at the committee meeting.]] We have listened to Mr. Grupiński, and now we will listen to Mrs. Górska. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, but this is not really a report.]] Ladies and gentlemen. The base of the program was mutilated, the heroes voted in defense of the history lesson... [[Voice from the hall: I was at the committee meeting, you weren't there.]] [[I said it myself.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the other hand, vocational education remained in a deep crisis. During the 2007-2015 period, we were faced with an increasingly lower level of education of Poles. [[This is not a committee report.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a report.]] But as one Member pointed out, perhaps there are still some unfulfilled anti-educational desires of the applicants... [[Can you draw your attention?]] ...who haven't made it, thank God, yet to be introduced, because they no longer rule the state... [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] I understand that this is painful for your cause... [[Voice from the hall: This is a show.]] ...but listen to them in peace. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, but that wasn't at the committee meeting.]] What can I do about it? ...and are the cause of today's frustration and aggression... [[Voice from the hall: I was at this committee meeting, and you weren't.]] That was the case, sir, at the committee meeting. [[Voice from the hall: This was not at the committee meeting.]] ...which, in the margins of every committee meeting or the Sejm, they're giving us. [[Voice from the room: you're lying!]] [[Voice from the room: It was.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You shouldn't have left the committee.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a false report.]] As she pointed out, meetings of both committees and the Sejm are not places of benefit for the emotional stability of parliamentarians. [[Mr. Marshal, this lady is lying. That wasn't at the committee meeting. Excuse me.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a false report.]] [[You abuse your powers, that wasn't at the committee meeting. You have no right to say that.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: No, sir.]] But that was at the committee meeting, Mr. President. [[You have no right to abuse, to say what was not at the committee meeting.]] I have to tell you, I said it myself. [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Get down!]] [[Voice from the room: Get down from there!]] I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the House's deliberations. [[Voice from the room: It hasn't happened yet. You walk around, you talk nonsense, no one interrupts you.]] Madame, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Applause]] But I said it, Madame, you must have been absent. [[The voice from the hall: And the one on the platform is lying.]] As she pointed out, meetings of both the committee and the Sejm are no place... [[Voice from the hall: But this is a false report.]] [[Voice from the room: He has the right.]] Mrs Lubnauer, please calm down. [[Voice from the hall: This is a false report.]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] ...contestments for the emotional stability of parliamentarians, only places where educational problems are really solved - problems of children, young people or teachers. It should be mentioned here about the idea of Michael Boni, who planned to introduce a law completely eliminating the school library. [[It wasn't.]] During the committee meeting, proposals were also made not to levitate... [[Voice from the Chamber: But these are the votes from the committee meeting. You weren't there, I was.]] ...on education issues to get down on the ground, look so coolly at everything that has already happened in education, in teachers and in children and young people. [[I'd like to make a formal motion to take your vote back, Mr. Marshal, because you're not telling the truth. That wasn't at the committee meeting. Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Sit down! Don't interrupt.]] Mr President, you will make a formal proposal after the end of your speech. [[It wasn't at the committee meeting.]] [[But this lady is lying. You can't say things that weren't in committee.]] Mr... [[A voice from the room: No!]] Mr President, this was at the committee meeting. I said it myself. [[Voice from the hall: There was no committee meeting, there wasn't.]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: He's lying!]] [[Voice from the room: I was...]] That's weird. I was, too. But the Member was at a committee meeting. Sit down and don't disturb me, sir. [[Then please call on the Member to report on the cases that were at the committee meeting.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. Mr. Peter Boris. [[Sit down!]] Mrs Lubnauer, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Applause]] Please continue, Member. [[Voice from the O.R.: Keep lying. Come on, come on.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, there are limits.]] [[Voice from the hall: What does it mean: come on, come on?]] And these good decisions were very many, for example, the introduction of programmes, e.g. National programme of active return of pupils to school, post-pandemic support programme, for which 244 million zlotys have been allocated, psychological support, help in supplementing knowledge, additional psychology and pedagogical activities for students and teachers, introduction of short-sighted prevention programme, for example support for teachers for computer accessories for remote learning. 300 million PLN was allocated for this purpose. [[All of this wasn't at the committee meeting.]] [[Voice from the room: That's interesting.]] Important activities during the pandemic as well as after the pandemic... [[Voice from the room: What pandemic?]] [[Voice from the room: Pandemic is still there.]] ...enhancing education resources and many other activities for education. A raise for teachers that haven't been there before. Let me remind you that this is the sum of PLN 1 billion. At the time of the predecessors, for example in the years 2011 and 2013, it was a round zero. Another topic raised by Members is the academic freedom package. It assumes strengthening the principles of respect for freedom of education, freedom of speech, scientific research, with the preservation of worldview pluralism... [[Voice from the courtroom: none of this happened at the committee meeting. This is not a committee report. This is the second club appearance.]] ...and not, as some of the Members of the group of applicants pointed out, any restrictions. It is also important to indicate the opinion of Members on the issue of non-breaking Article. 48 Constitution of the Republic of Poland - raising children according to their own views. Members pointed out that this was an entirely wrong plea. It is the new rules that give parents the opportunity to raise their children according to their own views, and the education curator will keep an eye on it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[A voice from the hall: This is a lie!]] The politicisation and demoralisation of pedagogical supervision is another absurd proposal which was presented to the applicants. The fact that the children will be protected... [[You're making a circus out of it.]] ...before demoralization, it is neither political nor ideological. The school is designed to teach native speech and communicate in foreign languages, mathematics, biology, physics, art, not to determine sexual orientation at the age of several years. [[Applause]] Then many Members took the floor, and ridiculous accusations were made concerning the supervision of schools and non-public institutions, where, as a result, the act of the curator could have been a prerequisite for the removal of the school or establishment from the records. That is not true," said one of the Members. He pointed out that such a situation could only occur if a school or non-public institution prevented a school curator from carrying out a check. On the other hand, one Member of the Civic Coalition wondered why some teachers in one of the schools had started the procedure after, as she calls it, an educational action without parental consent. It should be clarified that the kindergarteners' campaign was organized without parental consent, containing content not adapted to the age of children - pointed out by other Members. It's a political action. There were still voices concerning the introduction of supervision of activities conducted by associations and organisations. Contrary to the words of the Members of the Civic Coalition, this is a very good proposal from the Ministry, as pointed out by the Member, because the provision of the Article is consistently implemented. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Laws - Educational law, and therefore there must be agreement from the rector plus positive opinion of the school board and the parents' advice for such classes, and additionally need to obtain a positive opinion issued by the school curator. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: lousy applause, lousy applause.]] Further unauthorised objections to the Ministry and the Minister of Education concern the appointment of school heads only after a positive opinion of the school curator. The Member indicated that once again the applicants had not noticed that this was only the case for Article. 63. 21 of the Act - Educational Law, which refers to the appointment of a director for a period of less than 5 school years when no candidate was selected in the competition. But somehow it escaped the applicants that the Minister in the same bill strengthens the protection of school heads, making the director's appeal by the authority leading the school year, without notice, in accordance with Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 from the positive opinion of the education curator. So far, the probation officer's opinion has been non-binding," added the Member. In her next speech, she recalled the preamble to the Education Law: Teaching and upbringing - respecting the Christian system of values - is based on universal ethical principles. Ethics is upbringing, it's teaching respect for every person, regardless of opinions, race, beliefs or sexual orientation. There is no need for additional rules. She stated that Minister Przemysław Czarnek represents this approach. [[Applause]] The school is to teach mathematics, Polish language, other subjects, not to be a place for any ideology. In the next part of the committee, Members pointed out that the sole eye of the applicants is also the creation of the Copenhagen Academy, which has the chance to focus the largest scientists, Poles working at the moment on renowned universities abroad, as well as the signing of a parliamentary project about the creation of the Zamość Academy - an initiative of very important educational importance not only for the Lublin province, but also for the whole of Poland and education. It is not surprising, therefore, that other Members who have found this unacceptable. The other speakers indicated that the proposal was completely unfounded, that there were no substantive arguments and that they requested a negative opinion. There were voices about the vision of the past, the non-development of the school under the authority of Minister Przemysław Czarnek, about going back even to the 19th century, which, however, were declassified by the realities quoted by the Members who pointed out that these were the golden times for Polish culture, literature, Polish painting and more. At that time, universities were established. [[Voice from the room: Especially since women could not study. It was golden times.]] There were also reservations of the Left or the Civic Coalition against the Catholic Church, reservations, in the assessment of many members of the Committee on Education and Science, disgraceful and unworthy thinking people. The actions and achievements of the Catholic Church were reminded, among others. in the construction of our Latin civilization, in particular education and science, but also the judiciary, medicine and care of the sick and the poor, as well as culture and art. However, the dominant vote coming from the committee is the vote not to prepare the request for a lack of substantive arguments. [[You'll be ashamed of it someday.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is a voice claiming that the opposition's motion is one big lie, manipulation, omission of truth and facts. You can see clearly the intentions of applicants who, instead of intellectual effort, want to give students exhibitionistic creations on the marches of equality and intellectual mediocrity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Many voices were voiced in the context of the very form of statements of the applicants, statements of insulting teachers, ministers, government and persons cooperating with them. At the meeting of the committee from the opinions presented, it emerged that the Polish education under the command of Minister Prof. Przemysław Czarnka was heading in the right direction. [[Voice from the room: Straight into the abyss.]] [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] His professionalism, knowledge, experience preceded by 20 years of youth work were recalled. In fact, his personal culture is a key factor in his office, as he repeatedly showed during various meetings. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the hall: You can see, you can see this culture.]] Another speaker said that the opposition in an aggressive way, introducing a debate based on hatred, has repeatedly tried to undermine the right to democratic governance by the government and to introduce the reforms that society expects. He said that Poles have empathy, tolerance, courage. All you do - he said - is undermine these values in the name of your own political benefits. When you guys were in charge, you didn't do anything about it. The whole discussion was addressed by the Deputy Minister of Education Dr. Tomasz Romankowski, who pointed out numerous violations and violations of the law, the formulation of allegations without confirmation in the facts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: End, end, end...]] Madam President, I ask you to conclude. He resisted disrespect for teachers, probation workers during the pandemic. He firmly denied that religious lessons would be mandatory. That's another disgraceful lie from the applicants. [[Voice from the room: It's been 15 minutes.]] Madam, I would ask you very much to forward the proposal to the committee. [[The voice from the hall: This one didn't make it.]] Several questions were formulated, which were mostly substantive. Finally, there was a vote on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnka. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth decided to give a negative opinion on the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Taking over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u376	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. [[Mr. Marshal, I've filed a formal motion.]] Please in writing, sir. [[Voice from the room: What about in writing?]] [[Mr. Marshal, please.]] But we are not going to vote on formal proposals now. [[What do you mean, no?]] [[We don't have to vote. One minute, please.]] We don't have to vote. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I find that the rapporteur and the marshal have violated the seriousness of the Sejm, [[Applause]] lying here, from this place, because at the meeting of the education committee - and this is the only truth that should sound - there was no lead actor... [[You're an actor now.]] [[It's not a arena, it's not a circus, and it's not actors.]] I mean, Minister Czarnek, who chickened out and didn't come to the school board because he didn't want to face any real arguments. Minister Czarnek said that there is a belief that education is not particularly suitable for atheists. Why? Because atheism is an attack on human reason. Do you know what an attack on human brains is? [[Voice from the hall: The appearances begin with the largest club, or Law and Justice, not the circle.]] PiS-ism. PiS-ism - this is an attack on the human mind. [[Applause]] What you do every day. The public debate you are showing is an attack on the human mind, and we need to be clear about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It was an abuse.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u378	I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a The Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u379	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today in the Seym we have a special moment, a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education and Science Prof. Przemysław Czarnka. [[Voice from the hall: He's not a professor.]] You will ask: Why is this proposal so special? Well, total opposition, you are already reaching perfection in disinformation, manipulation, lying and hypocrisy. The proposal we're looking at shouldn't, and can't be taken seriously... [[Voice from the room: Like your minister.]] ...because there are no substantive, meaningful charges, and the only result is to heat up bad emotions. Yes, yes, emotions, ladies and gentlemen. These emotions are intended to replace your lack of programme, as announced by your old new president. [[Leave Tusk out of this.]] [[You're messing with it.]] [[You're not up to his mark.]] [[Ha, ha, ha! Forget it.]] Emotions are the only way to defeat Law and Justice. The Minister, Mr. Czarnek, has put on traditional values: ethics, upbringing in the spirit of patriotism and attachment to the family. And that's what the Left and those highly enlightened liberals were exposed to. [[Applause]] High Izbo! So let's talk about facts. In the first point of the proposal, you accuse the Minister of restricting the constitutional right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own views as set out in Article. 48 constitutions. It's the height of hypocrisy. You deliberately ignore the second sentence of this article in the proposal, which refers to taking into account the child's maturity in upbringing, as well as the freedom of his conscience and religion. [[Voice from the courtroom: Will the probation officer decide whether or not the parent will decide? Who's gonna decide that?]] You're the ones who wanted to sexualize little children, you're the ones who wanted to take away their childhood... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Madam, please don't disturb me. ...and parents are deprived of the right to decide when, what content and who will pass on to their children. So constitutionally... [[Censor, parole officer...]] Mrs... You have protected so much the constitutional rights of parents to raise and shape children that you have thrown away almost 1 million parents' signatures on six-year-olds. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] We gave our parents the right to choose, and we were right, because 96% The little ones stayed in kindergarten. You lie that supposedly Minister Czarnek takes away Polish children and young people's chances of getting an education for the 21st century. You've already shown what school the 21st century looked like when you were in charge. Let me remind you: only 10% schools had broadband Internet, and instead of interactive boards in schools there were Mendeleev plates, only not in the Ministry of Education, but in the Ministry of National Defence. [[Applause]] You've been clearing out school canteens, skylights, dental offices... [[Voice from the hall: School.]] [[Where are those dentobuses? They're rusty.]] Ba, you've closed down over 1,100 schools and fired 40 grand. teachers. Therefore, you didn't need pedagogical supervision, because for what? Only about 20% schools were active in the field of science. You have broken the profession of teacher with dignity, respect and authority, and by performing ubiquitous tests, you have given students a corporate rat race. We had to fix it all. We've been building a modern digital school for six years anyway. [[Applause]] We use hundreds of millions of zlotys for this purpose. Teachers use free e-materials, e-resources, e-handbooks. Students can use, among others, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. We've introduced programming lessons since the first grade. We have strengthened education in foreign languages. We've introduced an additional 70 hours of computer science. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We're developing math skills, we've limited the so-called. testomania and reconstruction of vocational education. [[Applause]] The next fake news in the proposal concerns the proposed new laws, even the so-called ones. the academic freedom package. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, the clock is not working.]] [[Room voice: The clock isn't working.]] [[But you cheat, even on time.]] Scientific advice is subject to scientific review and this freedom package is not regulated. You accuse Minister Czarnkow of ideologizing the school, and the only idea that the Ministry of Education is to implement the precepts of the Education Law. Let me quote a passage because you just don't know it. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Listen up now.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Time is jammed.]] Mrs... Teaching and upbringing - respecting the Christian system of values - is based on the universal principles of ethics. Education and education serves to develop a sense of responsibility, love of the Homeland and respect for the Polish... [[Game in the O.R.]] 30 seconds to go. Take it easy. [[Voice from the room: It's been a long time.]] [[That's not true.]] ...cultural heritage, while at the same time opening up to the values of European and world cultures. [[The voice from the hall: Stupid, mistress, you tell.]] Minister Czarnek is constitutionally responsible for the implementation of this law and this recital, and is implementing it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Professor.]] Therefore, the Law and Justice request that this shameful political motion for a vote of distrust be rejected. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u380	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition, now has the floor. [[Hey, Gawkowski, do you guys have boxes or signatures?]] [[The voice from the room: Let me see it.]] [[Voice from the hall: You brought the boxes.]] Sir... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Firstly, I ask the Chair of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth to respond to the disgraceful speech of the rapporteur. [[Applause]] We'll file a motion with the ethics committee. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Because what has been said here was not the subject of debate at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] [[It was.]] [[Let's see those signatures, Gawkowski.]] I want to say, and I'm sure the Minister will agree with me that pride and arrogance, disregarding others, insulting and sharing people, lies are not virtues, nor women, nor men, they are just flaws. [[Applause]] And people burdened with such flaws shouldn't have an impact on school education... [[Voice from the room: What's with the finger?]] ...the next generation of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: You don't have it.]] [[Voice from the hall: That's why you don't have one.]] We're in the Seym for the people, and that's why I'm going to talk about the concerns of those people we meet every day on the street. When I was shopping, an older woman came to me, an old lady, a retired woman... [[But it was in Poland?]] ...who asked with great concern: Madam, act, do not let Minister Czarnko destroy the education of our children. [[Applause]] I have four grandkids, I thought that after Minister Zalewska nothing worse could happen to us. But today, when Mr. Czarnek is Minister of Education, I am more and more afraid for the future of my grandchildren. [[The voice from the room: Lucky.]] [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]] [[Voice from the room: It was at the platform rally.]] She said she didn't agree to establish her grandson in the virtues of the women. We live in the 21st century - she said - I want my grandchildren to go to a modern school, preparing them for life in the future, not in the past. So they can have a choice and make their dreams come true. [[Applause]] This lady, Minister, the virtues of the woman are not associated with bravery, courage, discretion, and wisdom. For her, as for most Poles and Poles, they mean passiveness, submission and subjection. Because that's what life taught her. And, Minister, no matter what this woman thinks about the virtues of the women, one thing is certain: she deserves respect and decent treatment. [[Applause]] And how did you treat her? The Lord says of such people: a part of the society which fully understands the vulgarism of women on strike, and does not understand the word virtue. Who gave you the right to such arrogance and pride? [[Applause]] To insult, discredit and ridicule those concerned about the future of their children, parents and grandparents. Let us move on to the most important issue, the right of parents to raise their children according to their views. Well, you want to treat your parents like President Kaczyński treats the Prime Minister. Theoretically, Prime Minister Morawiecki may take any decision on his own, but provided he obtains the approval of the President. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The president does it informally. What you're doing in your party doesn't interest us. [[Unless they're stealing.]] [[Then what's the point of these conclusions, discussions?]] But in the case of parents, supervision of these decisions will result from the bill, because such a project was prepared by Minister Czarnek. [[Applause]] I only have five minutes... [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes of lying.]] ...I will not be able to quote all the hateful, homophobic and confrontational statements of the Minister. I will not be able to refer to scandalous attacks on freedom of science, to the education of ethics teachers at the Rydzyk or Ordo Iuris universities, to the lack of pedagogical and psychological assistance for children, to negligence related to remote teaching. But one thing I have to say is that the Minister does everything but what he needs to do. [[Applause]] He is expert in insulting teachers, students, parents and local government. In centralizing and ideologizing the school. [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate.]] In saying who's normal and who's not. But he lacks the idea of a good and modern education. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What do you do, excuse me?]] Have any of you heard any statement by the Minister in which he talks about preparing young people for life in difficult and complicated times? In the context of globalisation, the climate crisis and the ongoing pandemic? Nothing, nothing. An empty house whose price is ruining our children's future. That's the price we can't and we don't want to pay. [[That's bullshit.]] And that's why we filed a motion to dismiss the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore call on Members to vote in favour of this proposal. [[Applause]] For the children and for the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u382	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, the Left Club. [[Mrs. Agnieszka, are those boxes full? Can you show me those boxes?]] Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I stand here today on behalf of the Left Club... [[Voice from the room, so it's empty.]] ...who, of course, and without a moment of hesitation will vote in favour of recalling Przemysław Czarnka from the role of Minister of Education and Science. [[Applause]] But I am, and we're here today on behalf of over 100,000. Poles and Poles who signed a civil motion for a vote of distrust towards Przemysław Czarnka. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Show your signatures.]] [[Show me your signatures, not your cartons.]] Members of the Left, together with the Action of Democracy, collected signatures on the streets of cities and towns throughout Poland and on the Internet. [[Some of the Members show the tables with the inscription: Citizen's vote of distrust for Czarnek]] [[But look how strong Senyshin is.]] [[Voice from the room: One finger.]] When I collected these signatures, I met 16-year-old Magda in Wroclaw. 16-year-old Magda told me she was afraid to go back to school after the pandemic. But he's even more afraid to go back to Black's school. She's a good student. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But you voted in favour.]] She's afraid of the harassment for participating in a peaceful demonstration, afraid that her school will be visited by fundamentalist fanatics from Ordo Iuris in September. I stand here on behalf of girls like Magda, defending the young people that Przemyslaw Czarnek wants to destroy his childhood and steal the future. [[Voice from the room: Childhood...]] Who wants to disgust the school, the place where they spend a third of their lives. I am here on behalf of young people who want to learn, but want to learn about what is really important for their future. How to fight climate disaster, how to deal with first jobs, how to take care of health and build healthy relationships with others. Instead, Przemysław Czarnek wants to give them even more stories and even more soldiers cursed and more forced religion. [[Voice from the room: Horrible.]] [[Values.]] I speak for my parents who once trusted a public school, and today, if they could, if they could afford it, they'd take their children out of it. Parents who don't want to be voted out about raising their children. I'm here on behalf of teachers that Przemysław Czarnek wants to turn into helpful party officers... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room:]] [[My wife didn't give you the power of attorney.]] ...and on behalf of the school heads, to whom the Minister sends a very clear signal: either you will obey or you will go to jail for three years. [[Applause]] I'm here on behalf of the girls that Przemyslaw Czarnek... [[Voice from the room: Minister, Mr.]] ...injures and pushes into complexes that he wouldn't even raise anymore, and train his wife to be a criminal, who, without murmuring, endures everything, even domestic violence. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] No, Minister, a virtuous woman is not obedience and modesty, it is courage and strength. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It's the ability to decide about yourself, your future, your body, motherhood, work, just your life. It is the ability to set boundaries and express oneself whether it pleases the husband, the bishop or the minister. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Pudanowska was a woman.]] I'm here for young people who are struggling with loneliness, anxiety or depression. Young people whose school is still not providing the necessary psychological assistance. The Minister likes to brag about 15 million PLN for psychological and pedagogical support for post-pandemic schools, but this 15 million PLN is only 3 PLN per student. 3 zlotys can't get a young person out of depression, 3 zlotys can't save a child's life. [[Voice from the room: One billion, six hundred...]] I want to claim almost 1 million children, who today live in poverty, in Poland of Law and Justice, almost half of them - in extreme poverty. Because it is not true that 500+ has solved the problem of poverty in Poland. Over 100,000 children have arrived in the last year. Do you even know that, Minister? Have you seen the latest CUS report? Do you even care? In Poland 2021, in the heart of Europe, there are hundreds of thousands of poor and hungry children, and instead of every student providing a warm meal at school, you are engaged in feeding fat cats from Catholic universities. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Away with this demagogy.]] After all, I am here on behalf of students tired of long months of remote education who still don't know what will happen to them in September. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Plenus venter non studet libenter.]] Like Magda from Wroclaw. These young people would like to go back to school after their vacation, but to a better school, to a school where they will feel at home, safe, respectful, knowledge, care and support, which after this difficult time they need so much. Przemysław Czarnek is on his way to such a school today. It is for them today as the Left that we shall vote in favour of his cancellation. [[Applause]] It's for them, if we have to, we're gonna keep going out on the streets, spend the next few days at the signature collections, protest with them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Just so you don't use vulgarity.]] And when the minister finally leaves, because the minister finally leaves, it's for them, for you, we'll build a better school. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[No rules, no responsibilities.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u384	For those who observe our debate in the media, I think it is worth noting that the Left brought empty boxes. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Exactly, Marshal.]] Please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Look, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: What is there?]] [[Now what?]] [[Voice from the room: Makulatura.]] Those cards would fit in one box. [[Touchdown, applause]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: We can still print.]] [[Voice from the room: Report to the Magistrate.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: The Lord will show.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u385	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! Let me begin my speech with a quote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Liars.]] When a first child is born at the age of 30, how many children can be born? [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] These are the consequences of explaining to a woman that she does not have to do what God has called her to do. Animals know it, wild animals know it, and we don't know it. Guess whose words that are? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz: Minister Czarnek.]] [[The voice from the hall: Professor.]] Nobody else, just Minister Black. These words cannot be left without comment, because these are not the only statements of this type. We regularly hear such ideological statements from the Minister's mouth and from the minister's surroundings. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Biological, not...]] And today I stand before you not only as a politician of the Polish People's Party, but above all as a mother representing other parents who dream of having a good education, a good school and a good future. Unfortunately, this type of ideological input and destruction, which accompanies not only the last months, but in fact the last years of Polish education, do not allow it. Ladies and gentlemen! For the past 30 years, we've had different ministers, but we've never had a minister who's played a role on children, turning a certain order around. The school should primarily teach, educate, develop. Minister Czarnek doesn't want to teach children, he just wants to raise them in the spirit of the virtues of the women... [[Voice from the room: Brilliant.]] ...and the school turns into Sunday school. This does not appeal to parents, students, local governments, or school heads. [[That's not true.]] You like that, the PiS politicians... [[Voice from the room: But I'm a parent too.]] ...who treat you in the name of the rule: the country is me. You want to subpoena all the school heads, and you're gonna punish those insubordinates with a three-year prison, you're gonna put them in jail for three years. But that's not the end of it, because in the autumn of this year, the implementation of a new reform, a reform that extinguishes special education... [[But that's not true.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] ...in which pupils with disabilities, with intellectual standards regardless of disorders will learn in mass schools. [[Inclusive education, Member.]] Contrary to your propaganda, you're actually saving your lives for the weakest. We're falling in the rankings on our heads, on our necks. We've fallen four places in Pearson's ranking in the last four years. [[Voice from the room: But in Pershing's ranking by six.]] 25% The seniors didn't graduate this year. [[Have you ever heard of a pandemic?]] Half the eighth graders had math scores below 40%. There's really something to do in this area. We need a minister of education who knows the best investment is to invest in a child. Of course, our schools need changes and reforms, they need reform of funding, support for funding, they need a change of programme base... [[Voice from the room: Restore the middle school.]] ...because I don't have to explain how overloaded our children are. These schools need stability so they can function peacefully. Minister, I have the impression that you, speaking these words that I was talking about today, and my colleagues were talking about, in certain matters, need reeducation. Because every teacher knows that you can't share children for better and worse, every teacher knows that school is a place to stimulate new ideas, not ideology, every parent knows what's best for his child. [[Yeah, well, respect that.]] And finally. In the 21st century, which goes crazy forward when trips to space begin, what do you propose for Polish education? In fact, back to the past. [[We'll send you into space.]] I'll tell you what your parents say about you. [[Don't turn around... what does it look like, hello?]] Parents say: We will not allow the PiS caveman (The Bell) to raise our children. Minister, hands off our children. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Member, what was that?]] [[Voice from the gym: You're not fit to be a minister.]] [[Shame on you, Member. No respect for science.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u386	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm addressing Minister Czarnek. Minister, you're a conservative, and that's good. You're being attacked by the Civic Platform by the Left for your conservative statements. Ignore it. You deserve criticism, Minister, but not for what you say and what your views are. You deserve to be criticized for what you're doing and for what you're not doing. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Yes, sir.]] Let's take a look at some of the details. The question of academic freedom. The left is at the universities, many have a monopoly, the debates are blocked, the calls of Minister Murdzko are so-called. equal treatment representatives. The policy of your government. An announced law on academic freedom? She's not here. Putting up any dam of political correctness? There's no such thing. Second thing. Christian schools, conservative, with a program other than politically correct. After all, all parents pay twice for it: once in taxes, twice in tuition. Have you done anything to make it even for those who want to educate their children in schools like this? There's nothing going on with this case. [[Applause]] Polish scientists are humiliated by your obligation to write applications for grants to the Polish country in a foreign language. Was it for the killers? For the occupation? Change the madness that your government minister Jarosław Gowin introduced. Publishing and wasting Polish money, Polish taxpayer, tens of thousands of PLN for publishing articles in foreign magazines. [[Applause]] Why? Nobody even reads about a lot of things. Polish humanities from the Middle Ages are to be published in English? [[Applause]] This is crazy. It's a college for immigrants. Is this the priority of the Polish state? I understand - take a few dozen, a few hundred, a few thousand of the most capable. But is it a priority of the Polish state that we, as you call it, internationalize universities? To what level? UAM internationalized to more than 50%. Is that the purpose of our country? Stop this madness. Polish school does not need rhetorical wars, ideological wars, needs peace, professionalism, stopping the insanity of the Left. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: It was amazing, amazing, just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u388	Mr Artur Dziambor. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to say that for all the bad reasons - we had a lockdown, we had a school that didn't exist for 1.5 years, we had a remote education, we had a lower level of high school and an eighth grade exam - there is no serious discussion about any meaningful changes in school, there is no discussion about education bon, there is no discussion about what the school of the future will look like, what the profession of teacher will look like, what changes in structure will be. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: End of education.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You've made a motion that's based on the fact that you just don't like the minister's publicist and you just don't like him. If you don't like him (the bell), don't go for a beer with him, but really do your job. This is what we expect, and this House expects, and this is what the Polish school expects. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal thus formulated cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[And I like you already.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u390	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u391	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister of Education and Science Przemysław Czarnek is like the last Mohican fighting the gender of invaders, supposedly destroying the Polish school. His watchful falcons will spot every wicked woman, his skilled instinct will track down every trace of the LGBT tribe. Rainbow flag acts on him like a sheet on a bull, and red lightning raises in him the call of defending Polishness. One day we will laugh, remembering Minister Czarnek, but for now it is not funny, because after driving without the hold you gave the Polish school, it will be ruined. Civilised and culturally You take us back to the dark ages. You spent the war on teachers, NGOs, parents and students. [[It's not true what you're saying.]] For the enemy, you have every person who has read at least one book outside your canon of bland readings. [[What are you talking about?]] Your dislocated imagination is populated by criminal teenagers in uniforms, pleated skirts and worn-out shirts, although the 19th century is long behind us. These graced virtues of a woman, the attempt to raise young people by force to an ancient prayer is the result of your obsessions, delusions, and desires. In the future, scientists will have a lot of work to do to describe your social deviants in scientific work. But today you give our children a flame of fanaticism instead of a kaganka of education. You gave them a journey to Europe's cultural outskirts by a man who is mistaken for the role of inquisitor with the fans of the minister who is ready to wear your sick fantasies. Only in his performance it is not a sacred war, but a clumsy cosplay in which Polish youth gets involved. These Ordo Iuris educational staff of yours, who are supposed to reform education, only make you laugh and pity. These Eastern, authoritarian urges of yours ended with the fact that you will be, like the Hungarian MEP Szájer of Fidesz's brother, fleeing the gutter at the very end of your career. There are 132 women in this room, almost half of them from the PiS. According to Minister Czarnek, each of the ladies is a victim of feminism. Each of you has been told he's like a peasant because he's not sitting next to his husband. Your weight or the number of children is a matter of concern to the Minister. He knows your natural role better than your dreams and aspirations. That's what your daughters will be teaching you. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But you know her better, too.]] Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will vote in favour of recalling Przemysław Czarnka from the role of minister for protecting our children from your pathology and indoctrination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u392	Ms Agnieszka Chasing. It's a circle, but I don't know the name yet. [[Member of Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: Polish Cases.]] [[Polish cases.]] Polish cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u393	Aye, aye, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Polish Case Circle, which consists of few people, but they are people with values and beliefs, for which Christian values, patriotic values are very important. Minister! From the heart of us, I'll tell you that what you and your advisors are doing in public space is an absolute denial of these values. It does a very bad job for young people, a very bad job for the Church. You, your vocabulary and this public debate that you have started, even bringing about this situation, will actually have that effect. I don't know if you remember when only the right party once tried to impose certain values on young people. What was in the flaps? Resistance. Now look at the street. More and more people wear rainbow shirts. This is yours. Thanks, actually, to your language. You're making this happen. [[Agnieszka, what are you saying?]] It's about values, ladies and gentlemen. Values cannot be ordered. Values must be shown, respected above all, because the effect will be the opposite: young people will leave this country. Then there were closed borders, and right now they'll be open. He has access to information. [[It is better that you were with Kukiz.]] Mrs. Member! It is also a teaching of values - a personal culture and not disturbing, as it is said. This needs to be shown. In this House, we also teach young people culture because it looks at us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Screaming vulgarity.]] You want the substance? The last time you manage, it's a pandemic. I have a list of all the information you managed in the pandemic. Firstly, there is no crisis management strategy. Decisions were very often ahead of what was later in the regulations. No real response, not letting the directors decide to introduce hybrid teaching to make their own decisions. Central management, the need to consult health care professionals when introducing hybrid education. In such a situation, the health center was blocked in the fall. The directors were sitting on their phones. Making late decisions. On Wednesday, information at a press conference, on Thursday, a regulation addressed to publication, and on Friday, there is already another information. These are the data that were in this management. In fact, the Polish school was on an drip in a pandemic, there was no management strategy. Finally, what you need to do: a major reform. From the very beginning, there has been an appeal from this speaker for five years to deal with the method of financing and management in education. You haven't even touched it. You're just starting ideological wars. Therefore, next to the Polish Cases will vote in favour of the appeal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u394	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Przemysław Czarnek. [[Applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please, when I heard in the media 3 weeks or 3.5 weeks ago, perhaps from Mrs Gajewska's mouth, yes, I am sure that you intend to submit a motion for mistrust, Mrs Gajewska also gave me an ultimatum that if I withdraw from my ideas within a few days - I will remind you, from ideas, because only ideas are the subject of this debate - you will not submit this proposal. Your Marshal and Bureau kindly gave you three weeks of time to withdraw from this scandalous proposal, which you have made. You didn't take this opportunity and you embarrassed yourselves today. You've compromised yourselves in many ways. [[Applause]] [[Listen to the people, man.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what did you hear today? Today you have heard Mr Grupiński's lecture on a piece of my publication, attention, from 10 years ago. Mr President, I have been Minister of Education and Science since 19 October Ub. ) and not since 2011. If a request for a vote of distrust is made, please state. not based on the criticism of the decision, because it wasn't here at all, just based on a piece, a cut, manipulated yet, a publication 10 years ago, a statement from two, three years ago, when I wasn't a minister and I didn't even know that I was gonna be, it's a disgrace. I remind you, I've been Minister since October 19th, not for a few or a dozen years. [[Voice from the Chamber: Please withdraw from the discussion.]] In the meantime, you have done nothing here. No criticism, no solution... [[You took COVID to a hospital in Lublin.]] ...because you can't, ladies and gentlemen, do it. [[Applause]] Thank you very much... [[You took COVID to a hospital in Lublin, infected people.]] [[Voice from the room: You renounce yourself.]] ...Mrs Górska, Mrs Rusecka, to all of you who spoke on the committee yesterday... [[Voice from the hall: Holy cow.]] [[Voice from the room: And you didn't want to come.]] ...because the state has actually presented a number of big things that have been done in just nine months: [[Applause]] from verification, examination requirements, so that children and young people can safely pass these exams and eighth grade exams, through computerization of schools for over PLN 1 billion, by connecting all schools to the Internet... [[Voice from the room: No thanks to you.]] ...by 300 million PLN for teachers, so that they also purchase IT accessories, through the reform of magazines... [[Voice from the room: Careful, the president is here.]] Yes, Mr Bosak - I am speaking to Mr Bosak - I fully agree with your speech, in its entirety. Only what we're doing - you also hear this jazz - it's raising the scores of Polish magazines for this... [[So here's the conspiracy against vaccinations.]] ...so that Poland does not lose 400 million PLN per year just because we are to publish abroad. [[Voice from the room: But he's not for vaccinations either.]] That's what we're doing. And I agree with you, I agree entirely with what you said here. [[Applause]] And that's why it's such a mess. Ladies and gentlemen, you have based this request on something that should not be criticised at all, because the Minister of Education and Science is not included in this period of work. But, in fact, from this conclusion, for which I thank you very sincerely, one thing arises: the state is organically disgusted with freedom. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] What is the reason for this conclusion? The reason for this conclusion is that we and our colleagues have hit the very core of the problem. And it hurts so bad. You're criticizing a bill that protects the parents' right to raise their children according to their beliefs. [[Applause]] It is the parents who will consent to a non-governmental organization. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, Mr Grupiński, that is the problem in Poznań. It's you in Poznań who want to sexualize these children, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] To allow organizations that corrupt them, and as a state, we have a constitutional duty to protect children... [[Free city of Poznan. Leave me alone...]] Don't yell, sir, or we'll punish you. Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: ...before corruption. Read the constitution. And in Poznań we won't let you do that either, because the children of Poznań deserve to be protected from your demoralization. [[Applause]] It is the parents who will agree to the entry of a non-governmental organization, and the curator will have to receive the content that will be passed on to the school in order to protect everyone from corruption. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Curator one.]] You know, parents' advice is just a few, a dozen, maybe dozens of people in a school where there are thousands of children. Not all parents know what organizations go in there. The probation officer has to watch over you because you're doing scandalous things in Poznan, and that's not what we're gonna let you do. [[Applause]] [[Free city of Poznan.]] You started lying when you said the parole officer was gonna pick the principal. [[Voice from the room: In Poznań at least we do not enter with COVID...]] The curator will have five votes in the committee, which - attention - has from a dozen to 15 members. How is five more than seven or ten? You have to learn math, get a little training... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...because the level of your math education is zero. You started scaring the directors that the parole officer would fire them whenever he wanted to. No. The curator must have a tool in his hand, so that, in those few, but nevertheless, cases of non-compliance with the audit recommendations, the director may be required to follow the audit recommendations. That's all. The state needs to be effective, and that's what's bothering you. You don't want an effective state. [[Applause]] Mr Bosak - I will refer to him again because I agree with him - he spoke about academic freedom. [[Voice from the room: Alliance.]] Mr. Speaker! I would like to inform you that there will be a first reading of the academic freedom package in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth... [[Dziambora praised.]] ...doesn't seem like Friday, does it, Madam President? Come on, we'll discuss it. We need to free up the academic debate. We really need to make these leftist militias at universities stop terrorizing... [[Voice from the room: Sit down...]] [[What leftist militias are you talking about?]] ...our young people and our scientists. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We must bring about a situation where, indeed, the academic debate is free. All we want is for no one to be punished for preaching their belief in the worldview, philosophical and religious... [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] ...because this guarantees us the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Constitution! [[Applause]] [[What leftist militias?]] [[Some Members chant: A situation! Constitution! Constitution!]] And we have to make the rector of each university have a sacred duty to provide the conditions for debate for everyone, regardless of their views. Today it is very often thrown out of the academic debate of those who have conservative views... [[Voice in the room: Anti-vaccines.]] ...and only left-wings can be presented in it. [[That's a lie. What are you saying? You're a notorious liar.]] No, the rector will have a sacred duty to give everyone the right to discuss at the university (Applause), and if he does not, he will break the law and bear the consequences. [[It's not conservative, it's darkyard.]] And you know what made me so happy? Message from July 1st. Well, the British Government gave exactly the same message to the House of Commons, following our laws. [[Joy in the Chamber]] They want a free debate at their universities, too. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Where did you come from?]] And the last thing that struck you, and very much so, was out of Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bąk's mouth. It's about learning history. You have led over the years of your governments - a State from the Left, a State from the Civic Platform - to the fact that Polish youth are completely unaware of their history of the second half of the 20th century. And because of that, she's very sensitive to manipulation. What we are introducing to the Polish Ład, what you communicated to the president Jarosław Kaczyński: the latest history... [[Russian.]] ...divided into common and Polish. What we're going to do with this fund that you called the Black Fund and rejected -- we're going to fund up to 100%. trips to national museums, places of national memory... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to places connected with folk culture [[Applause]] - you should like it - to the memorial park in Toruń, to the Ulm museum, to the museum of the cursed soldiers, to the Warsaw Uprising. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] All so that children and young people are aware of their history. [[You'll even see the goose.]] We're gonna teach them, you know what? The fact that Poles, hundreds of thousands, millions of Poles saved their Jewish brothers in the German occupation, that they saved their lives, risking their lives and dying for them. [[Voice from the hall: And then they burned them.]] You didn't want to teach them because you didn't like it. We want to teach them to be proud that they are young Poles and to be aware of what they should do in the future. [[Applause]] [[That's bullshit.]] And that doesn't suit you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We want to teach them, ladies and gentlemen, at school, actually, bravery, moderation, discretion, wisdom. [[Cavemen just.]] [[Voice from the room: From the president.]] Do you know what this is? These are virtues. These are the virtues you've laughed at in the last few weeks. [[No. Virtue.]] But there's nothing weird, you guys have a completely different educational model. You're teaching kids something like that. It's a shame. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] A teenage girl on Shucha in front of the ministry with a vulgar inscription that you and your strike of some women encourage her to do. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] But the big scandal is this, ladies and gentlemen... [[Sit down, misogynist.]] Young people, standing 2 m from the gate, through which thousands of Polish martyrs passed on Szucha, in the worst place in occupied Warsaw, hold... [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister is promoting Nazism.]] ...swastics and do not know what it is at all, and do not know what harm they do to themselves, their peers and the history of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is an outrage, and it's unfortunately thanks to you. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Finally, I will return to Mr Grubiński's lecture, a lecture that had nothing to do with the ministry's activities and which also denied many things. [[The voice from the room: It was too smart.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] Mr. Rutnicki! Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnek: This is interesting, because in this debate it was not only from Mr Grupiński's mouth that our capital is the darkness, that there is no progress, that it brings us back into the past. [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] You were talking about the Middle Ages before. I'll read you something. This is part of a publication: On July 14th, a meeting of Lublin intelligence was held at the Municipal Theatre under the motto "Prycz" with medieval backwards. They were not invited by representatives of the Catholic University of Lublin, although they were indirectly concerned, because the meeting was attended by members of the Polish Teachers' Association who condemned the organizers of recent events and employees of KUL. They called themselves democratic Catholics. Do you know when that was? In 1949, right in the middle of Stalinism. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] You're just like the Major of Pasikowski's Dogs - times change, and you're a Major all the time on the committee. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Some Members chant: Piotrowicz! Peterovich! Peterovich!]] So thank you very much for this proposal, because you have compromised yourselves and this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Where are the flowers?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u396	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, will now speak. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Piotrowicz, Piotrowicz.]] [[Voice from the room: The government's opinion was in...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u397	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today, we will not only defend the Minister from appeal. We will defend and defend something even more important in this debate. We will defend our children's right to a normal school. [[Voice from the hall: Darkgarden.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where do your children go to school?]] We will defend our young people's right to learn without left-wing indoctrination. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Everything is left for you, even the Bible is about to be left.]] The school you want to run is a school full of all kinds of indoctrinations, which is why the rules that we implement leave in the hands of parents and, yes, also under the supervision of the probation officer, the fact who can enter this school, who can try to ideologize, indoctrinate children. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Applause]] [[Let me see the millions.]] The school must be a place not only to acquire knowledge, to acquire skills, but like... [[You got that mask from... falling like that?]] ...said our distinguished educator, Fr. Stanisław Konarski, also the place of processing hearts, processing souls. [[And he turned religion into morality... he put up with religion at school...]] Yeah, it's probably a very strange phrase for you, but that's what we want for a Polish school that teaches and raises. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He teaches modern - day skills and brings up patriotism. [[Applause]] [[There was no religion at Knight's School.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this is where some data on the level of teaching came from earlier in the debate. Well, I'm going to quote the latest research from the so-called. International PISA Skills Assessment Programme. It's a study that's valid for seventy-seven countries. In all three main categories of Poland, Polish children appeared better than in the previous study. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: Junior high school.]] [[Voice from the gym: But it was middle school, Prime Minister.]] In the study of reading with understanding, understanding of the text read, we were in sixth, seventh place... [[Voice from the room: Gymnasia.]] We were ahead of the Czechs, the Germans, the French. [[Voice from the hall: But what year?]] In a study on mathematical reasoning, we've overtaken 66 countries by 79. [[Voice from the room: What year?]] And in the study of understanding natural sciences, we were in third place in seventy - few countries. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But you were also talking about new programs here. And you've forgotten some of the great, wonderful programs that Minister Czarnek has implemented or continues. It is a national program of reading - 1 billion PLN, [[Applause]] is a programme of the National Education Network - almost PLN 2 billion. [[Where's the billion? I want to see it.]] Yeah, we're transferring unprecedented amounts of money to an educational grant compared to the time you guys ran school. [[Voice from the room: What is unprecedented?]] This is so that PLN 52 billion compared to less than 39 billion from 5 and 6 years ago. [[Poor growth, weak growth you have.]] This is also due to Minister Czarnek. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! What really is the salt in your eye that you can't accept is the fact that we don't want to lead to a worldview revolution in schools. [[You're bringing her in right now.]] We do not want to allow leftist and leftist indoctrination. We want the school to be worldly neutral, but she teaches patriotism, teaches and raises our young people and our children. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And what was it for?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Among the many tasks that Mr Czarnek performs, there is one particular task that I would like to stress, which concerns Polish science and freedom of discussion, because the right of freedom is too often de facto turned into its inverse, through political correctness, which prevails at too many universities. That is why we will introduce real freedom of discussion at universities. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Long live freedom! That's right, long live the Constitution, long live the freedom! We are the defenders of freedom. [[Don't be ridiculous. Don't make fun of people.]] None of you can demonstrate anything contrary, because freedom of debate is precisely the defence of freedom, freedom of speech, freedom of thought. [[Applause]] [[With telescopic sticks, you defend freedom.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want intellectual independence, but we also want respect for the community. [[You don't know what it is.]] Because out of these two great reasons, there are good attitudes. [[Look at them.]] There are also attitudes that are good in the labour market and in scientific life and in cultural life. [[Voice from the room: Suski intellectual.]] Respect for the community, teamwork, but also self-reliance of thinking and the ability to self-realize. This is our show. [[Voice from the room: Your program?]] We're not the best on this show. [[You just got an e-mail.]] [[You're the best in the world.]] We just don't want to allow our schools, our left-wing universities, our left-wing ideologies. And we won't. [[Applause]] [[Math isn't left-handed, what do you say? Since when is math, physics left?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today we defend not only Minister Czarnek, we defend a certain philosophy, we also defend the foundations of our culture. We defend what modern civilization, Christianity, respect for human dignity and precisely freedom has grown into. [[You're a cult, not a Christian.]] We are the defenders of these values. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If Minister Czarnek is under fire, it's because he's not allowing modern witch-hunting... [[Master, don't shout.]] ...denies political correctness, which is to dominate the debate in schools and universities. We're not authorized to do that. Minister Czarnek is a defender of freedom in schools and universities. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to agree on everything, but we should agree on one thing, we should defend Polish children, Polish youth from ideology, from left-wing indoctrination... [[Voice from the hall: Before contempt, before violence.]] ...we should give them the right to freedom, to self-think, to respect the community. [[Applause]] [[The last conservatives are here with us.]] Therefore, the programme implemented by Minister Czarnek is a programme of Law and Justice, a programme of the United Right. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We will defend this program, we will defend Minister Czarnek. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[How embarrassing are you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u398	Thank you, Prime Minister. I also have information for Mr Rutnicki. Well, you've been yelling and interrupting all my time here today. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] As far as I know, you're trying to be the chairman of one of the Sejm committees. I'll convince the members of the committee not to choose you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, Jesus! And what, scares me?]] [[And he was already saying hello to the goose.]] [[That's who you are.]] [[And I wanted to vote for him.]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] The discussion is closed. We will be voting on this in a moment. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements related to the special use of forest land, print No 1415. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on commemorating the role of women in the solidarity revolution of the 1980s, print No 1416. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Sejm Bureau, in a unanimous resolution, did not take into account the dismissal of Mr Grzegorz Braun from the decision to exclude him from the 35th session of the Sejm. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education and Science - Przemysław Czarnka. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education and Science, Przemysław Czarnka, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] [[Voice from the hall: Forest of hands.]] [[Today, the PiS is the Confederation.]] 448 Members voted. For - 205, against - 236, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Education and Science of Industry Czarnko in relation to the failure to obtain the required majority of votes. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Some Members chant: Przemek! Przemek! Przemek!]] [[Some of the fellow Members chant: Black! Black!]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 10 h 21 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution of the 1980s (Prints 1404 and 1416). Ladies and gentlemen, please move the conversations outside the plenary room. That's not how we're gonna work. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, please move your conversations outside the pleural room. I kindly ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarsińska to submit a report to the committee. There is no Member. Since you do not have a rapporteur, I manage... [[Voice from the room: It will be.]] [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, okay. Please, Madame, we are waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u399	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm sorry, but it turns out five minutes isn't enough, given the crowd. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Volumes were written about the Solidarity that was born in 1980. A couple of Ph.D.'s were probably protected, a few habilitations were done. The history of this movement, its fate, its meaning for Poland are actually well developed and converted. However, there is a passage in this story that I still think has not been appreciated. This is the role of women in the movement of Solidarity. I am convinced that both at a time when Solidarity was born and when Solidarity was pushed underground, especially at a time of war, but also at a time when it was reborn, the considerable burden of all duties was assumed by women of Solidarity. There are studies that show the characters of this movement, there is a reportage, there is one documentary, it is true, but it still does not reflect the scale and strength of their participation and effort. Therefore, at a time when a very significant anniversary is coming - the 40th anniversary of the hunger march, whose apogee took place in Łódź, the march, which was mainly the march of women, the women were headed by it, the women with children in wheelchairs - we thought it was a good opportunity to expand it a little and make this march a symbol of the importance and role of women. And so was the draft resolution on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution of the 1980s. That was the original title of this resolution. Today, the Committee on Culture and Media worked on this project, and I have the honour to be the rapporteur. I will start by thanking you, because ultimately the resolution was adopted in committee actually by acclamation, because there was no objection, even there was no need to vote on the whole resolution. That's what I'm happy about, and that's what these women really deserve. This does not mean that there was no discussion at the meeting, not even a very hot discussion and exchange of views, perhaps even light arguments or disputes, but, as I said, we finally adopted this resolution in absolute agreement. The first amendment that was made was to change the title of the resolution. In the document, I believe, there will be a new title, although the printing is still old. I'll read the new title because it's important. It is a resolution on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution on the 40th anniversary of hunger marches. It was a suggestion of parts of colleagues, as the pretext for preparing this resolution became starving marches, which in July 1981 took over without a small whole Poland. So in the title is a reminder that this is a resolution on the 40th anniversary of hunger marches. In the intention of the authors and applicants of this resolution it was to be a symbol of the resolution. It wasn't supposed to be part of a story, it wasn't supposed to be a section of the movement, it wasn't just supposed to appreciate the role of Łódź or the Łódź region. This was supposed to be a symbol, it was to pay tribute to all women who over the years were brave, were heroes, performed both in the union movement and in the private life of their husbands, fathers, brothers, especially in the martial law, who were publishing books, which were editing newspapers that kept those who were hiding from the esbecies of the leading activists, who were always helping, who worked in interned aid centers. There were women everywhere and around. And it's for them that resolution, and it's about them that resolution. As I said, a new version of the title was adopted. It's about two elements. I'm not speaking as an applicant anymore, I'm speaking as a committee rapporteur. The two elements aroused some controversy, but they were managed to eliminate it. The first is that in this resolution, there are still Łódź and the Łódź region, and there was the idea that not only did this march take place there, but also in other cities. Yes, it is. Only when they tried to add these cities through amendments, it turned out that if there were three such, there would be three others, and if there were five, then the essence of this topic would die at all. In total, consensus was reached and it was found that the center of these hunger marches became Łódź and many other cities of the Łódź region, and it was probably possible to stop there. The second point is, I would say, even more difficult and may have aroused more discussion, but we also managed to communicate in committee work. It's a matter of... Here are the symbolic names, such names of activists of Solidarity, which are obvious to everyone. It's so that a primary school student who doesn't remember at all back then knows who we're talking about, what kind of name that is. At first it was said that maybe these names were not enough, too many were asked why not alphabetically or perhaps yes or otherwise. These are symbols and their names are symbolic. These are historical figures, and these are figures from different wings, currents, directions of Solidarity. Here are the names of the ladies who are alive, some of them still work, but others that are already gone. And there are names of such ladies that I don't know if they'd sit next to each other today. I don't know, it's not important, but then they acted under the exact same idea of freedom and independence, improvement of existence and dignity. These were the elements women fought for, so we adopted this concept. It is not, as I repeat, a full list, supplemented by about five more names. It's hard to argue. It's important that we don't think those are names... Why doesn't he have one? Why doesn't he have one? No, it's a symbol, it's a monument, it's a memorial board. This resolution is meant to be a symbol. And if so, I hope that during the vote the Sejm will adopt this resolution as unanimously as the committee did. If you don't mind, I'll read it because that's what I'm saying, and actually, ladies and gentlemen, you can't really know what it is. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution on the 40th anniversary of hunger marches. July 1981 was a month of street protests called starvation marches of desperate residents of Polish cities and towns. Coordinated by the NSZZ 'Solidarity', the wave of rebellion against increases in food prices, the reduction of card rations of meat and its preparations and the destabilizing shelves took over the whole of Poland. The center of hunger marches became Łódź and many other cities of the Łódź region, and their undisputed leaders turned out to be women from this region. On July 25, 5,000 protested, but on July 30, Piotrkowska Street filled a tens of thousands of people demanding 'bread and freedom'. It was led by women with children in wheelchairs led by the march organizer - Janina Końzak, a worker of the Łódź Rubber Industry Plant 'Stomil'. Interned during the martial law and then forced to emigrate Janina Końzak is one of the thousands of women 'Solidarity' who co-created this movement and then, despite harassment and persecution, co-organized its underground activities. Women whose heroism and determination we owe today to free Poland. Anna Valentynowicz was born in Gdańsk Shipyard 'Solidarity' due to the exemption from crane work. Starting with it, you can create a name by name, a list of prominent activists 'Solidarity', about which history has no right to forget: Zofia Romaszewska, Zofia Kuratowska, Joanna Duda-Star, Alina Pienkowska, Bożena Rybicka, Barbara Labuda, Ewa Kubasiewicz, Helena Łuczywo, Henryk Krzywonos, Marta Modzelewska, Ewa Ossowska, Maryla Płońska, Jolanta Szczypińska, Grażyna Staniszewska... On the eve of the 40th anniversary of the Łódź hunger march, the biggest manifestation of this kind in the era of real socialism, the Polish Parliament expresses its highest appreciation to thousands of Poles and their leaders, paying tribute to their sacrifice, remembering that they have always been and are ready to fight for bread, freedom and dignity. That is the text of this resolution. In fulfilling the responsibility of the rapporteur, I will simply say that there is a mistake here, a typo - we apologize, but at such a rapid pace it was going on, the committee meeting was just now - not Marta Modzelewska and Magda Modzelewska. This (the bell) will be corrected in the Seym materials. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u400	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Przemysław Drabek to the High House. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u401	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the resolution of the Polish Parliament on honoring the role of women in the solidarity revolution on the 40th anniversary of hunger marches, print No 1416. Madam President, the rapporteur of the committee, presented the discussion and the whole content of the resolution very carefully, but I think the key is the essence, the last words of the resolution proposed. On behalf of the club, I would like to say that the Sejm is adopting this resolution on the eve of the 40th anniversary of the Łódź hunger march, the largest such manifestation in communism. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice expresses the highest appreciation for thousands of Poles willing to sacrifice and fight for freedom and dignity during the communist occupation. This is a clear, unambiguous position in support of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u402	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u403	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In July 2021, as we have heard, the 40th anniversary of hunger marches in Poland. Coordinated by the unionists of NSZZ.Solidarity was an expression of the protest of citizens against limited access to food supply in the times of the growing economic crisis of the country, a clear proof of the failure of the economic policy of the communist authorities and the failure of the system of real socialism. Thus, as one of many elements of the events of the 1980s, they contributed to the overthrow of the communist regime in Poland. The reason for starvation marches in 1981 was insufficient food supply for shops, including regulated ones, a reduction in postcard meat allocations and an increase in food prices. The demonstration on this background took place in July 1981 in many cities of Poland, among others. in Czestochowa, Cracow, Nowy Sącz, Puławy, Przemyśl, Szczecin. The largest number of speeches took place in the Łódź Voivodeship, where starvation marches passed through streets, among others. Bełchatowa, Kutna, Łask, Piotrków Trybunalski, Tomaszów Mazowiecki, Zduńska Wola and above all, mostly Łódź. It was in Łódź that on 25 July the first hunger march took place with the participation of approx. 5 thousand. The march of 30 July 1981 took place in Łódź, which gathered from 50 to 100,000 according to various estimates. people and is considered to be the biggest street demonstration of the day of the Polish People's Republic. Its participants were mainly women with children, and organizer Janina Kończak, social and trade union activist, worker of the Łódź Rubber Industry Departments (Stomil), interned during the martial law, which later, under pressure from the authorities, left for France, without continuing to emigrate efforts to support pro-democratic movements in Poland and help the country. In March 2021, she was awarded the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! On the 40th anniversary of the hunger march in Łódź, the biggest demonstration of the street day of the Polish People's Republic, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland has the chance to pay tribute to the sacrifice of Łódź women and their determination to fight for a decent life and to express special appreciation for Janina Końzak's life path and her contribution to the fight against the communist regime. He also has the opportunity to express his highest appreciation for thousands of Poles and their leaders fighting for free Poland in those years, among them for Anna Valentynowicz, but also for many, many other outstanding women, who - as we can read in the draft resolution (The Bell) of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland - were always and are ready to fight for bread, freedom and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u404	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The story about the Solidarity is mostly a description of the male world in which women are important, but only an addition. For some time now, we've been trying to fix this mistake because women are never an addition to anything. This bill also corrects this mistake. Thank you, Mrs Sledzinska-Catarasinska, for this initiative. [[Applause]] Other women also deserve great respect, all women who fought for a fair Poland in the times of Solidarity. Today, in this resolution, we focus on Łódź women. Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, reciting a book entitled "Mothers of Solidarity" about the Szczecin heroes of those times, used such beautiful words, which also fit very well here, fit the boatmen. There's a theory that a butterfly's wing flutter at one end of the world can cause a hurricane at the other end. The quiet, widely unknown heroism of women can be compared to this fluttering of butterfly wings. Singlely unnoticed, the result was a hurricane, the effects of which were felt by the whole world, a hurricane which swept away communism in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u406	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u407	Thank you, Marshal. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I commend this project for the cultural committee, and especially for the applicant, the author of the first project, Mrs Katarasińska. As you mentioned, it is the result of a compromise. The most important things were there. Probably didn't get all the names there, so let me add only three from here on behalf of my own coalition club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, and especially my own party. Olga Teresa Kościanowska - a wonderful woman, member of the National Commission for Coordination of Health Services NSZZ The second of these women whose names come to our mind is Louisa Wujec - still living, still intellectually and physically functioning, opposition activist, co-worker of the KOR, editor of the underground edition of the weekly "Mazowsze." In the martial law she was interned, after boarding school she cooperated with the Primate's Committee of Assistance for Liberty Deprived Persons and their Families - a very noble act. And I'll add a third name here. Maybe your marshal will be surprised, maybe the ladies and gentlemen on the right will be surprised, but this is Elizabeth Witek, Marshal of the Sejm. In years of martial law, she was a simple history teacher in Jawor. And in this district Jawor, in a city that I very much like, which I know very well, in which it is not easy to be brave, and in those days it was not easy to be brave, she took part in the demonstration of "Solidarity" together with her husband, also a history teacher. For participating in this demonstration, she was sent to prison for three months, not to prison. She was sitting with ordinary criminals. I know a little bit about it, because I've been sitting a lot shorter, less than 48 hours, but also with common criminals. Therefore, your Marshal, Elizabeth Witek, is to be recognized for her contribution to the victory of Solidarity at that time - like Ludzka Wujec, like Mrs Olga Krósanowska, like Zofia Kuratowska, Grażyna Staniszewska, Zofia Romaszewska or Henryce Krzywonos. I will only repeat a few names that have been mentioned in this resolution. Ladies! Thank you for your courage. Every time Jan Pietrzak sang, you were at the banners, where men needed you, and where Poland needed you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's get our heads down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u408	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u409	I am truly amazed at the content of this resolution, and here I turn above all to the right. Members of the PiS and Prime Minister at the beginning of this term promised to change Europe, but once again - as I expected and said - it turns out that Europe is changing you. I see you're the ones who got infected with feminist madness. Once again in this House, I feel like I have moved back to Brussels. I have been reminded of these resolutions, all the directives of the European Parliament, in which the chorus is always repeated about the particular role of women in each case. In fact, I proposed even at a sitting there that I would just once and well adopt a resolution on the particular role of women in everything and to stress it once and for all, and then there would be peace. And I guess if this goes on, I'm gonna have to offer it here soon, since we're following this lead. I also reminded myself of the European Union election observation mission in Madagascar, in which I took part. Finally, we made a statement. About what? Of course, a statement highlighting the particular role of women in the electoral process in Madagascar. I didn't get the answer to what this particular role of women was there because I thought it was exactly the same as that of men. However, the European Parliament never misses the opportunity to stress this, and I see that we are picking up on this trend. There were also resolutions calling for equal quotas on boats, on tirach. We have even stressed in a resolution the particular role of women in terrorism - perhaps even before us in this House. What is this? What kind of sexist shit is this here? What's all this rotten shit? What are you giving us here to pass? Mr... What opportunity does it make to emphasize the role of women? What's this, March 8th? Why doesn't it matter, I don't know, red, brown-eyed, rock fans? What is this? We do not agree to such a sexist language, unwarranted segregation or distinction of people based on sex, growth, race, eye color - it is the idea of the Left to expose women to men, to use sexist language, to convince women that their enemies are men. You're picking up that tongue. The left makes women a substitute proletariat after the workers had taken them out on wheelbarrows before. The fact that more women took part in one manifestation is no reason to emphasize the role of women in the entire solidarity revolution separately, just as there were more men in the yard or in the Uncle's mine, is no reason to adopt a resolution on the special role of men. What would you say if it were a resolution on the special role of white men in the solidarity revolution? [[The voice from the room:...dinners cooked.]] What's next? We will stress the role of LGBT people in the process of democratisation if we already want to race the stupidity of the European Parliament? We do not agree (the bell) to this resolution presented in such a wording. We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u410	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u411	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker from the Confederation of Dobromir Sosnierz defined the courage of the Łódź women who worked in the light industry, worked very hard, the wages in it were 20% lower... They kept the families, they kept the children. He described them as sexist trash. [[No, no, no!]] Mr. Dobromir Sosnierz described Henryka Krzywonos' courage as inventions of feminism. [[I didn't say that! Don't lie to me, don't lie to me!]] Mr President, at least at the moment, please act fairly seriously. [[Don't lie to me and... my words.]] From this point I thank the authors and authors of this resolution, because my city from which I come, Łódź, is worth this memory. [[It doesn't lie rudely, I didn't say...]] Thank you very much also to all those who have been digging up this difficult story over the years, the history of women, including the history of solidarity. directors Marcie Dzido and Piotr Śliwowski, the creators of the document "Solidarity by Women." It's from this movie that we learn about this story. When in 1981 the delegation of the "Solidarity" went to the Vatican, the secretary of John Paul II Cardinal. Surprise took Anna Valentynowicz into a separate room and told her that the leader of the labor movement in Poland is Lech Wałęsa, and she is to be the background at this meeting. Background. And that's what women have been like for years. Nameless, because in pictures where they appeared next to the leaders, in pictures where they stand next to the leaders side by side, although they were just as brave, although they risked everything, they risked the well-being of their family, they are not signed, and they are. Therefore, any initiative that serves to ensure that women of solidarity are remembered, that women who have shown courage prove to be truly formidable, remembered, is very precious, Mr. Dobromir. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u412	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. [[I'm asking for a corrigendum because I was called by name.]] Half a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u413	In the correction mode I must unfortunately call Mrs Gill-Friday a liar, because she deliberately twisted my words, I mean, invented my words, that I would describe women's courage as trash or rot. No, the text of the resolution that segregates the participants of these events on account of sex, I described it as junk and rubble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u414	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. Time - 1 minute. Question one, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska for this resolution and for reminding us of important dramatic events in the history of our country, our region, in which women, activists and activists played a major role. In the summer of 1981, starving marches were a symptom of Poles' desperation due to a catastrophic state of view. And here's a small footnote, because this time there's no place in the resolution to mark some facts. The first street protest against shortages in supplies was scheduled to take place in Kutno on 15 July, but was stopped at the appeal of the chairman of the "Solidarity" Lech Wałęsa. Several days later these protests took place throughout the region. On July 30, the biggest such protest took place in Łódź, but starvation marches were also organized in other cities and I would like to see the names of these cities in today's discussion as well. They were protests in Tomaszów Mazowiecki, Piotrków Trybunalski (Dzwonek), Pabianice, Bełchatów, Zduńska Wola, Zgierz and Łask. Thank you, Member. I thank all the brave women for participating in these protests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u416	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll join all those who thank the applicant. Thank you, Ivano, for this project. And thank you on behalf of all the leaders who have acted during a very difficult time. But I would like to expand this group, which I myself belong to, to all these women, often young women who could not participate actively, because there was one, two children on their shoulders, just like me, and this group of women who were shaking about their husbands, because they were carrying papers, carrying replicators and other things, and at some point they were arrested and left without anyone, without help. I think it is undoubtedly a symbolic resolution. I ran out of the name of Danuta Wałęsowa, who just belonged to this group of women who had to give food to children, in this case a large family. There were many of us, there were not thousands of us (the bell), there were tens of thousands of us. Thank you very much to all these women. Thank you. And finally, Marshal. I hope we don't end up with a draft resolution. I hope Minister Gliński... Mrs... ...will take this resolution... Thank you very, very much, really. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome. ...and that there will be an uprising... Mrs... ...a publication that will commemorate, save all these women from oblivion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u418	Mr President, please come to the podium. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u419	Ladies and gentlemen! This resolution is very much needed. To pay tribute to all women is, you can say, not only desirable, but also very necessary. I want to refer to the content of the resolution from my own perspective. I was the head of the organizational department of the MKZ, and then the Solidarity of Łódź land at the time when this protest was organized. In this resolution, it is a bit suggested that "Solidarity" was not its organizer. The regional board was the organizer of this protest, and Mrs Janina Końzak was one of its participants. She spoke very beautifully at this protest, but his preparation was the work of the Solidarity of Łódź land and the women who worked there. It's not mentioned here, for example. Maria Dmochowska. I don't know if it's possible to supplement it. That would be very good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to say - for your knowledge and information - that the protest lasted 4 days. Thank you, sir. On the first day of the protest was the journey of MPK vehicles, the second - the vehicles of PKS. The discussion is closed. Thank you, sir. On the third day, the builders protested, and then there were women and a hunger march. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u420	Mr President, we are finishing the questions. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 July this year. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Marshal, can I be the rapporteur? As rapporteur, briefly.]] Madam, there were no questions. It was a thank you - the right one - for the initiative. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But I don't want to...]] Please, ma'am, you had 15 minutes to perform. I've already closed the discussion. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: But I have two comments after these statements and questions.]] Okay, Member, please be very brief. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Really very briefly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u421	I would like to thank you for, perhaps, the positive adoption of this initiative and for the fact that most of the clubs, in fact, support it. I would just like to say to one of my fellow Members that it may be for him, but to me it is neither trash nor clumsy courage of women who, in 1981, under the eye of esbec and militia, went out into the streets and protested. If it's trash and trash for someone, it's their business. Not for me. Ten such resolutions are due to this courage, not one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u422	Thank you, Member. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? [[Yeah, I do.]] No one's checking in. [[I'm checking in.]] Member, please report here. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. The first statement will be made by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On July 28th, on the birthday of Baruch Samuel Blumberg, who identified the hepatitis B virus, we will celebrate the World Day of Hepatitis B. Professor Baruch Samuel Blumberg was born on 28 July 1925 and died on 5 April 2011. He's an American physician, an astrobiologist, Nobel Prize laureate in Physiology and Medicine for identifying the hepatitis B virus. World Hepatitis Day was established by the European Liver Patients' Association in 2004 on 19 May 2010 by the WHO, the United Nations World Health Organisation, which is responsible for health protection, formally recognised World Hepatitis Day. The organization appointed for the 28th of July. Hepatitis is the fourth disease recognised by WHO - alongside malaria, tuberculosis and HIV - where the organisation is taking action to raise public health awareness. It is estimated that almost 500 million people worldwide are affected by hepatitis B and C. Many of them do not realize that they have a virus in them, which poses a serious risk, because the consequence of not taking treatment may be cirrhosis of the liver and death. The main objective of establishing a global day of hepatitis is to raise public awareness of hepatitis and to encourage participation in preventive research. Hepatitis is a virus-induced disease that is transmitted through blood, sexual contact, unsterilised equipment. Infections can occur through various types of treatments, the use of infected toothbrushes, razors, in the tattoo studio. I'm gonna call in some data. The following types of hepatitis A are distinguished: Hepatitis A, which occurs mainly through the gastrointestinal tract. It does not cause cancer. Type-B and type-D inflammations for which infection occurs as a result of contact with infected blood, sexual contact. They can lead to very serious hepatitis and liver failure, and then to death. Hepatitis C, where infection occurs by contact with infected blood, sexual contact, unsterilised equipment. The treatment is symptomatic. HCV may destroy the liver for many years without clear symptoms. Continuous fatigue and flu-like symptoms are just some fairly unexpected signs that may indicate that we are infected and that we are suffering from hepatitis C. Hepatitis E primarily concerns Asia. The virus isn't dangerous. Let's go back to World Hepatitis Day. Each year the event takes place under a different slogan. This day is celebrated mainly in order to increase knowledge and to show how to avoid infection with the virus. It is worth to participate on this day in happenings, lectures that are organized in our country. Despite the ongoing pandemic in Poland, anyone without exception can quickly without records, free of charge, perform a test for hepatitis C, i.e. for the presence of HCV virus. The list of all points with the exact addresses is provided on hcv.info. en. Download points are located throughout the country and can be checked for HCV infection free of charge. In case of a positive anti-CV test, the patient is guaranteed to continue free diagnostics, viral RNA tests, HCV antibodies. Today, Polish patients have access to modern treatment, thanks to which they can get rid of the virus from the blood already in a few weeks. All the more so, I encourage you to take advantage of available free research. Let's all join in the celebration of the World Day of Hepatitis. It's July 28th. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u424	Thank you very much, Member. A further statement will be made by Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It has been 76 years since the end of World War II, and we are witnessing that the paintings of the independent Second Republic and its beautiful, proud capital did not fade into human memory. When comparing pictures of Warsaw's architecture from the interwar period with German chronicles presenting the panorama of the capital from the planes passing over the ruins of destroyed Warsaw, it is hard to believe that we see the same city. With great social effort, we managed to demolish and rebuild our capital, and the appearance was restored, among others. The old town, after many years the Royal Castle was rebuilt. Instead of many demolished houses, new buildings have been built, often about new architecture, and modern skyscrapers are now being erected. But while standing in the square of Marshal Piłsudski, many people wondered about the remains of the colonnade of the Saski Palace, what this building looked like. then in its entirety, as would be included in the current architecture of Warsaw. I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda very warmly for this beautiful initiative to rebuild the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. Royal. After so many years of waiting, we come to help rebuild the heart of pre-war Warsaw, the business cards of the then capital and the whole state. As can be read from the bill presented, reconstruction will be financed by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and other sources. At this point I would like to take an initiative and call on Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to propose the financing of the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenements at ul. A royal introduction to the German government. It should be noted that the Saski Palace and the Brühl Palace were destroyed, and more precisely blown up in December 1944, so after the insurgents were finished and the inhabitants of Warsaw were expelled from the city. It was a typical act of barbarism, motivated solely by the desire for revenge, carried out with the hands of German soldiers, on the basis of an order given by the German Chancellor of that time. Of course, at that time it was someone else, but he made his decisions solely for the sake of his own people and for this reason he enjoyed the great support of the entire German society. It would seem natural, therefore, to first finance this reconstruction to the German Government. Surely such a gesture as an act of compensation for the damage suffered, whether in the context of war compensation or even as a proof of good neighborhood, would be expected and welcomed by the Polish society experienced the cruelty of World War II. Dear Prime Minister, I call for this possibility to be considered and a proposal made to the current authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the successful implementation of the planned investment will certainly be regarded as a demonstration of the organisational and economic capacity of contemporary Polish statehood. Thus, it will have a positive impact on the perception of Poland and Poles in the world. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the parliamentary group on I was asked by Mr.Hracja Bojajjan, President of the Armenian-Polish Social Committee, to read a fragment of the letter - due to the time limit - addressed to your Marshals of the Sejm. Dear Marshal! The 40-day armed conflict between Azerbaijan and the Armenian Republic of Mountain Karabab was interrupted by the ceasefire on 9 November 2020. Despite the arrest of the armed forces, the situation initiated by the attack of Azerbaijan's troops on the Mountain Karabas remains unstable. The greatest concern and controversy is the fate of Armenian prisoners captured during the conflict and after its formal suspension. The authorities in Baku deliberately falsified information about Armenian prisoners and used this issue to obtain certain negotiating advantages. The fact that many civilians are still being held hostage is particularly worrying. There are also women in this group who should first be released. Azerbaijan, as party III to the Geneva Convention, infringes in particular Article. 118 of the Convention, which provides that prisoners of war shall be released and repatriated immediately after the end of the war activities and its Article. 1, which sans that the parties undertake to ensure that the Convention is respected under all circumstances. The conflicting attitude of Azerbaijan with international law poses a real threat not only to the return of prisoners, but also to their lives and protection against forced disappearances and torture. The Armenian side has reasonable suspicions that Azerbaijan is using prisoners of war as a slave labour force, for trafficking in human beings and for other criminal purposes. These suspicions are justified in the form of numerous films distributed on social platforms, which show many cases of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of Armenian prisoners, including mutilation and head-cutting. Many international human rights organisations have expressed concern about torture and degrading treatment of the detained. Human Rights Watch in its report of 19 March stressed that such crimes qualify for the category of war crimes. Armenia has gone to the European Court of Human Rights on prisoners of war. Since Azerbaijan did not provide the information requested and requested by the Court within the time limit, the Court referred the matter to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. On behalf of Armenian social organisations and Armenian minority in Poland, we ask the Polish Sejm to condemn the unlawful detention of Armenian prisoners of war by Azerbaijan and to take steps that will prompt the authorities in Baku to immediately release all illegally detained Armenian citizens. However, we regret to note the lack of words of condemnation for Azerbaijan's actions in recent days by the Polish state institutions. A rather sad incident was the vote of a group of Polish Members of the European Parliament against the resolution calling for Baku to release Armenian prisoners. The Polish Armenian community hopes that also from the Polish authorities and the Polish parliament the provocative and challenging actions of the Azerbaijani party will meet with strong condemnation. With the greatest respect - Hracja Bojajjan, President of the Armenian-Polish Social Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u428	Thank you, sir. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 July, on the Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village, in Sharajówka, a village located in the Bilgoraj district, on the 78th anniversary of the brutal murder of a German invader on 58 inhabitants of this village, there were celebrations commemorating the victims of murder and pacification from the area of Biłgorajszczyzna. Today we remind the next generation of how important history is, the history of our nation, how important martyrdom and sacrifice of life are for our homeland, for our freedom and independence. 79 years ago, in November 1942, the Germans started a resettlement operation in Zamość, which covered four districts of the Lublin district: Biłgoraj, Hrubieszów, Tomaszów Lubelski and Zamość. Her balance sheet was tragic. By August 1943, the invaders carried out a brutal pacification of almost 300 Polish villages. Over 110 grand. The residents were deported. Several tens of thousands were sent to concentration camps in Oświęcim and Majdanek. A large part of Polish society was transported to the Third Reich for forced labor, and their place was taken by German colonists from different parts of Europe. There were over 30,000 expelled. children. 10,000, I take it. of them lost their lives or disappeared. Okay. $4.5,000. It's for Germanization. The municipality of Łukow through its history is a special place on the map of the district of Bilgoraj. Łukowa is also one of the displaced villages. Nearby in the village of Osucha one of the biggest guerrilla battles took place, and Sharajówka, like Majdan Stary, became a place of martyrdom of the Polish village. In Sharajówka, on 18 May 1943, a mass murder on the civilian population, combined with robbery, carried out by the German police supported by the Ukrainian police, took place. It was one of the bloodiest pacifications carried out in Zamość. The German invader in retaliation for his cooperation with the Resistance gave them a terrible, inhumane death in flames. These events make us aware of the cruel fate of Polish villagers, their families, those who supported the Polish resistance movement with faith and devotion. The Day of Combat and Martyrdom of the Polish Village is a holiday established by the Polish Sejm in 2017 in honor of Polish villagers for their heroic sacrifice during World War II. Let us remember the patriotism of the inhabitants of Polish villages. We owe them the memory of the great sacrifices they have suffered. We owe the memory of being tortured, executed, thrown out of homes, deprived of possessions, exported to Soviet camps and German camps for forced labor. This holiday is a tribute to all those who have experienced pain and fear, fighting in guerrilla troops, hiding from persecutions and displaced persons, thanks for helping refugees, for feeding inhabitants of cities and soldiers of the underground Polish state. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u430	Hello and glory! Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For millions of years there have been animals on Earth that, as the fans say, rule. There used to be dinosaurs in the world. Now in Africa, as you know, elephants and lions rule. On the other hand, Poland is said to be ruled by cats, among them fat cats bred by political leaders, mainly on political jobs and on the national victat. Such a political cat is a good job, because also a position for the brother-in-law will get, and a state commission for work well paid, although no one needs it. For several months the media have been alerting about the mismanagement and waste of public money under the banner of fighting a pandemic, as well as about earning money on this pandemic by various fat cats associated with ministers, politicians and officials. July 20th this year The portal Onet described the issue related to the government action of Polish Szwalnie, implemented under the patronage of President Andrzej Duda, under the supervision of Deputy Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz and Minister Michał Dworczyk. According to this information, the Government's Industry Agency bought materials for several tens of millions of zlotys to make anti-epidemic masks, knowing that made from purchased materials the masks will not be able to obtain a certificate as medical masks. The medical and anti-epidemic standards were not met by the fabric or other materials ordered. According to Dr. Paweł Grzesiowski, these masks are not suitable for use in an epidemic situation. They could rather be distributed on construction sites or on farms as anti-dust masks, because they do not protect against any virus. According to various web portals the Polish Szwalnie programme was spent, i.e. more than PLN 200 million was wasted. Nevertheless, someone from the government institution of the Industrial Development Agency gave money to suppliers, although they shouldn't get any gold for bad materials. Someone gave the producers money, even though they shouldn't get any gold for unnecessary buffs either. To sum up, millions of unnecessary masks are behind in government warehouses. The money from the budget split up, and the cats from the government's orders fell on their feet again. But the people who spent uneconomically public money, and the fat cats who benefited from it, have their specific names, and companies have specific names. That is why I am curious to hear what the Government's Attorney General and Government Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, have to communicate about government mismanagement. I hope we do not hear from Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, as always: Poles, nothing happened. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u432	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Club Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u433	On 17 July 2021, Marshal Elżbieta Witek took part in a picnic in Otyń, Lubuskie Voivodeship, where she promoted the government program of Polish Ład. During her speech, a group of demonstrators, residents of the Lubuskie voivodship, stood behind the stage and developed the banners critical to the policy of the Government of Law and Justice and began chanting the password of the Constitution. Marshal Witek in response to these actions, pointing to the protesters, said: "I am very curious whether any of them do not benefit from a pension at the age of 60 or 65 or maybe someone is not taking 500+, or maybe they have given up 300+ or free medicines for seniors. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, they're taking it because they say it's coming, and I think it'd be worth the honor of not taking it from that mean government of the PiS. And you take it, you take it without scruples, you take it and you complain. It's not honorable, because if I didn't agree with such a government, I would never have taken it from him. She also added: "This is a group of screamers that is not from here. These are the people who came, someone paid them to behave like this. All citizens of the Republic of Poland have the right to demonstrate their views and in this respect enjoy constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression - art. 54 (1) (a) 1 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as the right to participate in peaceful public gatherings - art. 57th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Constitution gives them the right to engage in polemics in public space, including with the possibility of critically referring to the actions of the authorities. The statement used by the Marshal that a group of protesters were paid up, discredits their good name and undermines their sovereignty in making their own decisions and discredits their right to speak freely. The Marshal denied the idea of the rule of law. The State is characterised by universality, that is, a principle which gives the same rights and obligations and makes available all possibilities resulting from nationality to all citizens equally, regardless of their political views or sympathies. This is also the case for social security, to which Mrs Witek referred. With her speech, Marshal Elizabeth Witek not only violated the natural dignity of the manifestors, challenged their right to participate freely and consciously in the legal manifestation, she suggested that they could not fully benefit from the principle of universality of the state, but also at the head of the institution, which is the Sejm, put the good name of Parliament at risk. I hope there will be a reflection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u434	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. There isn't? Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u435	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The period of the ongoing pandemic and its effects have been felt by all, the economy, family and social life. Many families have experienced real tragedies, many have lost their sense of stability and security. Fighting an extremely lethal virus was extremely difficult. This fight continues, but it's time to think about the future. Polish Load is a comprehensive strategy to overcome the effects of pandemics, economic recovery plan and a chance for a good future for Poland and Poles. We must convince Poles and Poles that this is a good plan. Radio, TV, press, flyers - is that enough? Definitely not. The most important are direct meetings, conversations, explanations of assumptions, goals and benefits of the Polish Order. This is particularly important in small towns, rural and communal centres. It is the inhabitants of these small, poorer areas and centers that have been treated as stepmothers for years. The government of the United Right has changed that for several years. Popegeer villages, rural hostels, voluntary firefighters, seniors, farmers have finally been seen and have been given a chance to develop. Polish Load is for all Poles and Poles. How much enthusiasm and great hopes are associated with it, I have had the opportunity together with Minister Marlena Maląg to see in Regimina and Ojrzeń in the Ciechanov County. It was these two communal centers that we chose to promote Polish Loads, not a big or medium-sized city. There were many questions, some difficult questions, but they were asked honestly, without malice or political undertones. Normal conversation, explanations, discussion in the interest of our own and Polish future. I want to thank the Minister for accepting my choice. I would also like to thank the authorities of the municipalities of Regimin and Ojrze, seniors, groups of country hostels and firefighters for their enormous commitment to preparing meetings. But my greatest compliments are to the people of my community. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. The meeting was for you, the Polish Load is for you. You won't be disappointed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u436	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Premiere - a city that smells like history. A while ago, I introduced the Zels in my speech. Today I want to talk about another city, a village located south of Piotrków Trybunalski, on Pilica, on the historical border between the former districts: Sieradzka and Sandomierz. The pre-election, as it is mentioned, lies away from motorways and other major transport routes. Life today flows slowly, with its rhythm, but once upon a time, this small town became the epicenter of important events, a place where history simply happens. It is unknown where the name Przebórz came from, its toponomastics are unclear. Perhaps it comes from the popular name Predbor in the Middle Ages, which may have been the founder of the settlement. Another version assumes that it was its location in front of the powerful forest complexes, the bords named Predborz. The first mention of the village dates back to the 12th century, and it became a town in 1370. He liked them the last of the Piasts on the Polish throne - Kazimierz Wielki, who as a great hunter was in this area very often and just somewhere he made his last hunt, during which he broke his leg, which consequently led to his death. It is in Predborz, as few know, that King Władysław Jagiełło granted in July 1423 the town rights of the village called Lodz, which is today just Łódź. The successful development of the city stopped the Swedish Deluge. Many disasters and conflagrations have passed through them. It divided the fate of the Republic of Poland. In the 19th century, the famous textile industry was located in Preborz. The company Jan Lange - John Cockerill was created here. Steam machines were brought in from Belgium, foreign professionals were hired and dress production started. Many residents took part in the January Uprising, and several skirmishes near the town were fought by a party of the famous guerrilla Józef Oxinski. After regaining independence, the city was a very important local shopping centre. People of many cultures and religions lived side by side in the town. The Jewish community was particularly large. World War II did not deal kindly with the Pre-Governor. The Germans destroyed part of the market, the synagogue. They organized a forced labor camp in the city. The city lost more than half of its population. The Germans deliberately murdered all pre-Borbon Jews. The smell of the famous pre-Borbon roast cougle on every Sabbath Friday has gone forever into the past. After 1945, everyday life came to the town, but war wounds continued to be known for a long time. In 1958, the people of Preborza fought for their faith. When the communist authorities, using their vacation, took down the crosses present in the school halls, parents protested loudly, trying to change this state. Many civil militia and security officers were used to pacify the spontaneous protest. The people most involved in the protest were punished by imprisonment, detention, fine, expulsion from work. About this little significant story from the 1950s practically voivodship historians, and especially our country, do not speak at all. And it was very important, especially since we are talking about years of Stalinism. Today's Premiere, scenicly located above the Pilica, is worth a visit. Walking through picturesque streets and watching famous pre-Borbon chapels, you have to remember its history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u438	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise a very important topic for my region, i.e. for the Lubuskie voivodship. The theme is the construction of the ring road of the western Zielona Góra. The construction of the bridge crossing in Pomorsko will undoubtedly improve the quality of life of residents who will no longer have to expect a river ferry that will cross them to the other side of the Oder. The natural consequence of the construction of the bridge will also be the increase in motor traffic, so the logical continuation of such investments should be the construction of the right road, which will ensure the smoothness of traffic and road safety in this area. The relevant project was created under the name of the western ring road of Zielona Góra and is to be carried out on the basis of an agreement between local municipalities which declared their own contribution and applied to the government and exceptionally received this support from the government. They also spoke to the voivodship government governed by the Civic Platform, and unfortunately they did not receive this support from there. As a result, this key infrastructure investment for Lubuskie voivodship was not included in the list of priority projects financed under the regional programme. But for the purposes of party games, of course inside the Platform, the construction of a training hall in the field of WOSiR in Drzonkow in the amount of PLN 80 million was included. In a situation where the level of resources that the voivodship government would have to put on the western ring road in percentage terms is only 26% total of PLN 358 million. Other entities would cover the rest. I address here representatives of the Civic Platform. Wasn't your slogan: let's not do politics, build bridges, schools and what else you've come up with. It was a very naive slogan at national level, but quite reasonable when it comes to self-government. The asphalt of this ring road will not be in the colors of PiS or Green Mountain, I assure you. Let the local government work and stop your party games for the good of Lubusian land. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u440	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. There isn't? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A statement dedicated to the memory of Bogdan Nauki, director of the Spa Animation Theatre in Jelenia Góra. The Pandemic has caused great havoc, has taken away many important, capable and creative people who have changed the world. One of them was Bogdan Science, director of the Spa Animation Theatre in Jelenia Góra. This theatre led 26 years, and in fact discovered it, developed its artistic activities and created an extraordinary headquarters for it in the historic court theatre of the Schaffgotsch family. After a thorough and careful renovation of the Bogdan Science facility, it was made one of the most beautiful theatres in Poland. The principal's great advantage was faith in the skills of others. He understood perfectly that trust in the members of the theatre group was building a band. Bogdan Science gathered around such a set, fantastic group of people, actors, stage designers and technical staff. He hired great directors, making sure that the theater opened up to fresh, innovative views and thinking of other creators. It greatly enriched and developed the Deer Mountain scene. Presentations of the band in front of an international audience, among others, were important for the development of the theatre. in Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Belgium, Finland and other countries. The animation theatre team also performed on many scenes in the country, including small towns, kindergartens and schools. The spa Animation Theatre was a magical place not only for children but also for adults. Bogdan Science perfectly understood and implemented the principle of universality and multi-layered transmission of works for children. Apart from directing, dramatic and literary work, Bogdan Science spent a lot of time working with children. As part of his educational programs, he conducted workshops to bring the youngest theatre closer: his secrets, means of expression and extraordinary possibilities. He saw the deepest sense in it. Bogdan Science is very well deserved for the development of the Jelenio Góra animation scene. His vision of the theatre went far beyond the usual concept of the theatre. He's developed what's good in the theatre and in the people of the theater, but also innovative. The world of art has lost not only a good organizer, an excellent director and creator, who has devoted his entire professional life to the theatre, but above all a good and wonderful man. Bogdan Science was also a sensitive citizen. He was in favour of freedom of speech, independence of the courts, always on the side of true democracy. He failed to celebrate his 40th anniversary of his artistic work with his presence and in his directing. He left suddenly and unexpectedly. It will remain in memory of the deer, inhabitants of Lower Silesia and the country as an excellent creator, director and man of the theatre. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u442	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Margaret Navel, I do not see. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u443	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! What is the point of this motion to dismiss the Minister of Education and Science, Professor Przemysław Czarnek? I suppose many of you, observing the opposition's struggle with the contention of the conclusion, were astonished to note that it could not, in substance and rhetorically, once again. Her weakness in this area is permanent. This does not change the form of the fact that the spectacles with the appeals of individual ministers dominate the message of the day and introduce information chaos locked in a trivial question: But what is it? So it's worth explaining a little bit about this nebula. In the dispute about Polish education, whose spectacular expression is the attempts to appeal further ministers of education - earlier Anna Zalewska, today Przemysław Czarnka, and on the way of Dariusz Piontkowski - it is about anchoring her in fidelity with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the message resulting from the preamble of the Education Law and the appeal to the Christian genealogy of our thought on upbringinging. Moreover, modern school must return to its balanced, synergistic, dialogueal structure of shaping intellect, reason, teaching knowledge, i.e. teaching at the same time intelligent, responsible and empathetic education towards the sociopsychological nature of the subject. This dual nature of the process of education and teaching is of particular contemporary importance, due to the rapid dehumanization processes that dehumanize interpersonal relationships, they displace them through technicalized production, management and communication systems. It is therefore necessary to ensure that a man, a young man, is able to discover and understand the phenomenon of his own being in a wider perspective of world order, his natural dynamics of development, standards and values. In order to achieve this, we need both dialogue and support in the process of shaping the child's abilities and attitudes in the balanced cooperation of responsible parents, whom we encourage, ask for an educational presence in the lives of our children, as well as a school responsible and aware of the teaching and education of young generations. In the perspective of the United Right Government and Minister Czarnka, it is essential to restore their parents' decisive role in the educational process towards their children. The cooperation and expert assistance of education curators, psychologists, educators and educators are obvious and desirable. We do not have permission for abandoned childhood and marked by parental absence. We also do not agree to a school that indoctrinates and sexualizes the experience of youth. It is hoped, however, that by the nature of her youth, which is risky, challenging and turbulent, a school is possible, which in the intelligent company of adults helps a young man to grow safer to nobleness and good. Today, all over Poland - your marshal, I will show - pickets under the motto: a wall behind Minister Czarnek. On Lubuskie land, on Lublin land, in Lower Silesia Poles concerned about raising their own children gave a witness in defence of the Minister. Thank you for this testimony. Thank you for the support of the Parliament's majority in defending the Minister. This was also done today for your cause. Thank you, Polish people and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u444	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to talk to you about a very important social group today. As Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on I wanted to remind you that this year we are celebrating a unique anniversary: the anniversary of the 120th anniversary of the discovery of blood groups. It is celebrated by the explorer who made this discovery in 1901, and 29 years later, in 1930, he received the Nobel Prize - Karl Landsteiner, who became the hero of the world's blood donor day. On 14 June, my dear ladies and gentlemen, this is the date of his birth, but also the unique date that we owe every year to celebrate because of these heroes, special people, special people, people who can share a piece of themselves, this tiny part of their lives, for another man, to save another man's life. Therefore, my fellow countries, very important organisations, the very important people in them are the blood donors and the honour of the blood donor. Because recently we celebrated this feast, about a month ago, in Krynica-Zdrój there was a big gala, the Third Court Blood Gala, during which we awarded many wonderful, silent heroes with national, regional or communal decorations. My dear fellows! It was just a symbol. These people are the heroes of everyday life. I want to quote the figure of old judge Andrzej Lisa, who is Poland's record holder, and we hope that this year he will reach the world record of Guinness - a record of giving 100 l of full blood. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 44, almost 45 years of regular blood donation. There are more such people in Poland. We must appreciate these heroes, we must remember these heroes, and we owe this community support, my dear ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, my appeal, my request to colleagues of parliamentarians, to local governments is: ladies and gentlemen, let us promote honorary blood donation, promote blood donors, support their actions, support picnics, social campaigns, content campaigns. Dear teachers, friends, because I am also a teacher, you can say simply: support young people to encourage their first dedication, the first donation of this precious gift, the gold that everyone has in themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we will shape our nation, so we will shape a young responsible man who will be a volunteer who will be a blood donor who will be a good man in the future, a good worker, a good father or a good mom, just a good man. Let us teach from an early age that when the time comes, you can share this part of yourself with another human being. Of course, there are additional elements such as bone marrow donation, which already requires greater involvement, because here we have some medical operations, and this most difficult form - transplantology. There's a family transplant that doesn't involve another person's tragedy, but there are issues that are harder, heavier, that involve the death of one person who gives life, can give life to the next person. Ladies and gentlemen, these three things: blood, bone marrow and organs are an invaluable treasure, that is what we should fight for: for transplantology to develop in Poland and for blood donors to grow more and more. This appeal is extremely important today, because during the holidays there is always blood loss in blood stations, there is little blood in hospitals. We go on vacation, forget to give blood or just rest. Therefore, there is a great appeal to all blood donors, but also to those who cannot donate blood, but promote blood donation: please and we appeal to everyone, that during this difficult holiday time blood supplies be replenished in the centers. We encourage you to give blood, and I ask you very much that we create a good climate together and encourage blood donors to do so. You could say it's a feat, like getting a Mount. Everest, give blood as many years as Andrzej Lis - 45 years old. I think that can be easily compared. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important, and I invite you to cooperate with the parliamentary team to deal with these issues. I hope that together we will create something good and prepare new, young, responsible citizens who will create a wonderful civil society in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u446	Thank you very much, sir. That's a beautiful statement. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On March 24, we celebrated a national day of memory of Poles saving Jews throughout the country. This feast was established to honor and honor thousands of Polish families who saved many lives during the German occupation. These are the stories of those families who hid the Jews also under their own roof. Many times our countrymen sacrificed their lives to save others. I would like to present the story of one of the families in my district who were helping the Jews back then. June 18th this year An plaque commemorating this heroic family was unveiled in Gruszów by Mr Kazimierz Łapczyński. Aniela and Franciszek Szewczyk, together with three children, lived in the village of Gruszów in the municipality of Raciechowice in the district of Thoughtnicki in a small house. During World War I, Franciszek Szewczyk was incorporated into the Austrian army and later also participated in the Polish-Bolshevik war in which he was wounded. In the autumn of 1941, the Jewish Goldberg family, Jerzy and Giza, and their two children, Lilka and Jan, asked for their help. The Shewczy family was aware of the penalties of the Germans, yet she decided to help those in need. The Jewish family was kept and fed for almost a year in a specially warm granary next to the house of the Shewczyk family. When the Goldbergs managed to get fake IDs, they left for Bochnia. However, their moving did not end the action of helping Jews by a brave family from Gruszow. Soon after the departure of the Goldbergs, the Shewczyks hid three people from another Jewish family - the Federgrün. All of this family survived the war, while Jerzy Goldberg died in Bochnia with a natural death, and the Jewish family moved to Cracow, where she also found safe shelter. The son of Jan Goldberg-Kruczkowski under the pseudonym "Domeyko" became a soldier of the Home Army, died in the fight against the Germans on 22 October 1944. My mother and my daughter were lucky to see the end of the war, and they both left for France. After the war, the Szewicz family also hid guerrillas, for which she suffered many repressions by Communists. Mary's daughter was sentenced to 3.5 years in prison, Joseph's son, for 8 months. But Francis and Angela Shewczyk were also in prison. The youngest daughter of the Goldberg family applied for the title of the Righteous Among the World Nations, and in the same year the title was granted to them. Maria from the house of Federgrün and her sister also gave a witness to the aid received from the family of Shewczyk after the war. I draw attention to this story, because it shows the great heroism and sacrifice that led this family, as well as many others when saving Jewish citizens. It is our duty to cultivate the memory of such people. As an MP, I recalled the history of my family from my territory, but there are many more stories and testimonies. As a parliamentarian, I feel obliged to commemorate the heroes of that time. It is important to keep mentioning them and to talk about them also here, on the Parliament's platform. Our strength is the memory of the past. That's where we should build the future. We are also here to pass this memory on to the younger generation of Poles. We must never forget our history. A nation without the past, without tradition and without culture is not respected by anyone. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The day is coming when the world will hear that Poland has a new saint. The beatification of the Primate of the Millennium will take place in Warsaw, in the Temple of Divine Providence, 12 September 2021. This event should move us more, stimulate our minds to seek the truth about him, finally to seek a fuller explanation of why he was awarded the title of the Primate of the Millennium. It would be easiest to refer to the great celebrations of the millennium of the Polish state. Persecuted, destroyed in various ways, the Church in Poland thanks to the Primate survived the Great Novena of the Millennium, which was a beautiful work of his life. However, I think it will be justified to have another look at this title. Cardinal. Wyszyński appears to me as a hero steadfast, a man with a firm attitude towards communists, evil, persecution of the Church and believers. He's not afraid of death, loneliness, betrayal, slander, imprisonment. He faces every difficulty and wins, but in moments of triumph he never thinks of himself. God, the Church and the same important homeland are important. Thanks to him Poland gained respect in the international arena. I quote: Although the Primate himself was persecuted and persecuted by the communist authorities, he never spoke ill of Poland. He was a great Polish patriot. He understood that a family nest was not to be corrupted, even though it was bad for a man. All the speeches of the Primate about Poland are full of honor and love, therefore Poland owes its husband of state, the father of the nation, to present a monument to the patriot - the end of the quote. Yeah, about the card. Wyszynski wrote in 2001 Fr.John Pach, paulin. How far did many Poles go today from the attitude presented by the holy primate? The damage to Poland, whether public or hidden, has grown to the rank of advantages in some circles, and he, restored to us by Providence in another way, but again placed on Polish roads, asks us for a healthy ambition of Pole, citizen of Europe and the world. He also warns us not only to be passive consumers of all that comes to us from Europe. She calls for respect for the native tradition, culture of small homelands and customs appropriate to the Polish house on the Vistula River. He firmly believes that the Church will survive in every age. The path to survival is an attempt to reach an agreement, but not a compromise on moral matters. He has always defended freedom of conscience, talked about the suffering of people who are disinherited from beliefs, faith of fathers, demeaning what is most beautifully shaped by the inner man. He was among the people, he spoke for them, he knew how they lived, what hurts them, what offends them. Extremely well - felt and judged social sentiments. He talked about the rights of people at work, he cried out for improvement in their fate in the face of growing economic problems. Communist governments, inept, without predicting the consequences, pushed the country into an increasing economic crisis caused, among others. various addictions of the Polish economy. He was opposed to constitutional changes. He showed that they limit our sovereignty, national independence, even our national culture. It brought him great public support, but that's not what he meant. The point was that no one harmed their homeland, so he defended national existence, did not deal with anyone, did not give in to anything, and at the same time was a proponent of moderation and discretion. I think it is the wisdom, the most important cardinal virtue, and the inspiration of the spirit that taught him such actions as today are at the weight of gold. This persecuted Primate, together with the whole Church, received recognition from the communist rulers of Poland. They started saying it was a card. Wyszynski is a great man and a great patriot, and it was not the result of any concessions on his part. Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium, was great (the bell), for he gave his life in service to the nation, his homeland and man. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u450	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u451	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, as you probably know, is planning changes to the 500+ programme. Applications are to be submitted only in electronic form, and the benefit will no longer be paid by local authorities, so far, but to deal with this ZUS. I don't know if you know this, but in 2016, when the program started, around 12 thousand people were employed. people to carry out this task. Now that the 500+ and 300+ programmes are to be transferred to the Social Security Office, most of these people will be fired because this funding was part of the cost of operating the program. Of course, the government justifies this decision to reduce the cost of operating this program, but it does not say anything about what will happen to these people. After all, these people have been trained, prepared, and for these five years they have been deeply involved in this work, often working overtime. Let me put it another way: these people have actually contributed to the fact that you have once again won the election. Today you sentence them to oblivion, theirs and their families. The second aspect I'm going to talk about is this aspect of digitization. I do not know if you know, but 3/4 of the applications in these smaller municipalities are made in paper form. These people can't handle the digitalization of these conclusions. We in big cities sometimes find it so obvious. Not for these people. These people are often affected by this syndrome of digital exclusion. What are we gonna do about it? These people know people out there, in the countryside and in the towns. They'll be nameless to the U.S.S. They won't know their stories, their problems, they won't know how to help them. But there's another aspect, ladies and gentlemen, which is what the local government is talking about. The point is that the revenue from the program increased the budgets of local governments. As a result, local authorities could make commitments to invest so much needed to local communities. Today it will be completely limited. This is a huge problem for local governments, because suddenly it turns out that art. 243 will become a fact and will deprive them of any opportunity to invest, despite the fact that there will be money and very large funding. Unfortunately, they won't be able to take that money. That's why I think... First of all, I stand up for the 12,000. The people who helped you, your marshal, win this election. I think that this decision to transfer to the Social Security Office, as a consequence of what will happen, is not a good decision. But let's also look at local governments who will not be able to invest a lot of money in the development of their local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Advisory Support Centre is an innovative project aimed at supporting municipalities and powiats in the implementation of an effective and effective development policy. As part of the project, local authorities together with an experienced team of experts from the Polish Towns Association will prepare good quality projects and investments that will enable them to develop. However, it is worth leaning on the principles of support for territorial strategies developed as part of the piloting of the Advisory Support Centre. The Association of Warmia-Mazury Border Municipalities, alongside 37 similar partnerships from all over Poland, has been participating since November 2020. Pilotage. The municipalities of WW. Partnerships border directly with the Kaliningrad Circuit of the Russian Federation and in the Warmia-Mazury Strategy by 2030 have been defined as the strategic area of intervention of the Mon. areas of marginalisation. These municipalities form one of the most vulnerable economically and threatened by further marginalisation of Poland's areas. These areas are characterised by very low incomes, poor population and rapid ageing of the population. Moreover, much to be desired leaves transport infrastructure, as well as the negative potential of natural and cultural assets. It is worth noting that they are also municipalities with a very high share of the localities and with the highest unemployment rate in the region. All partnerships of the Advisory Centre are currently in the process of developing territorial strategies. In parallel, work is also underway on national and regional programmes which will be supported by European Union funds. It is therefore a good time to introduce appropriate regulations guaranteeing projects resulting from the territorial strategies of the Advisory Support Centre preferential financing terms and conditions. According to the information provided by the Minister, one of the sources of funding for areas at risk of permanent marginalisation, one of which is undoubtedly the Partnerships of the Advisory Centre, may be funds from the envelope of around EUR 7 billion which have been allocated to the regions in the negotiations so-called. software contracts. Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship received from WW. additional reserves of approximately EUR 503 million. The preferential principles and conditions for supporting the implementation of the territorial strategies of the Advisory Centre should be implemented not only in regional programmes but also in national programmes, in the operational programmes of cohesion policy for the period 2021 to 2027, in the new Rural Development Programme and in the National Plan for Reconstruction. Such solutions would allow the long-term and more efficient development of areas at risk of exclusion. Preferred access to WW. support instruments could have different forms, including e.g. non-competition financing so-called strategic projects dedicated to specific areas of competitions, specially allocated allocations, or point preferences when assessing projects resulting from territorial strategies of advisory support centres. The project will provide our municipalities with an opportunity to improve their capacity to implement development policy effectively, as well as an incentive to initiate and implement important over-the-counter projects, e.g. to stimulate economic development or improve the quality of public services provided to border residents. The implementation of the principles and conditions to support the implementation of territorial strategies of advisory support centres in national operational programmes would both increase efficiency and improve the whole aid process for excluded areas, thus allowing them to compete with economically well-developed municipalities in the country in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. You're welcome, sir, to put on a mask. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Oh, God.]] But no, oh, God, that's a bit much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before noon to the PiS website today, it was PiS that formally caused Poland to enter the European Union. And I would like to explain in this statement what is going on, because young people no longer remember what the history of the European Union was. The Union developed from the European Coal and Steel Community, followed by the creation of the European Economic Community and then the European Economic Community Euratom and ECSC formed the so-called "European Economic Community." European Communities, or actually the European Community, which became European Communities at a time when the European Coal and Steel Community ceased to exist, because the people who formed the Union simply forgot that the European Coal and Steel Community was created for 50 years. 50 years have passed and at that moment the European Coal and Steel Community ceased to exist. At that point, some of the lawyers in Brussels believed that there was a European Community of two communities, and some of them believed that there were European Communities. Transforming to the European Union was a major quantitative and qualitative leap. In the Maastricht Treaty, the high parties declared their will to create the European Union, but they did not create it, they merely declared their will to do so. The Union was created by the conclusion of the Treaty of Lisbon. At the time of the conclusion of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Community or the European Communities acquired legal personality and became a country, thus losing sovereignty for each country. The sovereign at the moment is Brussels, not Warsaw. This was a fundamental change, because at this point, of course, EU law became more important than Polish law, exactly the same as Polish law is more important than the law, let's assume that the Sejmik of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, in which we are, right? The fact that Sejmik Województwa Mazowiecki will decide, however, that Mazowieckie law is more important than Polish law, is not of the slightest importance, even such statements need not be cancelled or cancelled, because they are invalid from the very legal force. For the same exact reasons, the European Union does not protest that Germany, France, Poland and someone else are announcing that their constitution is more important than EU law, because it simply does not have any legal meaning. Those people who signed the Treaty of Lisbon, probably without realizing it, gave up Poland's sovereignty, i.e. something that Poland fought for and managed to do in 1918, succeeded in 1956 and now that we lost it. Understanding this is extremely important. The fact that PiS did it is meaningless, because if the PO were in charge then, of course, she would do the exact same thing, so that I do not accuse here especially of PiS. I just wanted to point out that if the holy memory of Lech Kaczyński and Mr Václav Klaus, with whom I spoke on this subject in Brussels, had either of them not signed this treaty, the Union would never have been established and so far we would have been peaceful in the European Community - or the European Communities, if this had been clarified - and Community law would not have been more important than Polish law and we would not have had those problems which at the moment have the Law and Justice. I just wanted to remind you that it was the Law and Justice that made this galimatias, that deprived us of our sovereignty, and now she can't complain because it was his decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u456	Thank you, sir. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u457	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Following recent events related to Polish and international politics, it is worth referring to the situation that Marshal Elizabeth Witek met you in terms of media manipulation and comparing the statements of Marshal Elizabeth Witek to the statements of President Donald Tusk - a statement which was political and open, a new opening of the Civic Platform, which was one of the most important events on this side of the political dispute. On the other hand, comparing this statement emotionally marked by the negation of the United Law, Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska and the Agreement, such a great negation, to the speech of Marshal Elizabeth Witek, who promoted Poland's Load, which was at an open meeting with voters, at a meeting which also came opponents of the government who asked difficult questions... Your Marshal answered these questions and tried to convey in a substantive manner the knowledge about the Polish Order. On the other hand, as a politician, she also referred to many of the charges of those who came to disturb this meeting. On the other hand, the meeting of President Donald Tusk was completely different. This was a meeting, which was a great event for the Civic Platform, was a meeting attended by many supporters of the Civic Platform. Looking at the photos, the video footage of this event, you can see that there was no way to get closer and ask these difficult questions. It was a strict meeting. political, strictly party meeting. Comparing these two events is a great abuse. Speaking during this speech by President Tusk about the fact that the Government of the United Right refers to the policy of the East, refers to cooperation with Putin, is also a great abuse. Talking about this after a few years of working abroad and a great return is an embarrassing situation for me as a young generation policy. In my opinion, the citizens who are watching this return will not be fooled because we remember the situation from the past when it was said that there was no money and there will be no money. There was no money to pay the many benefits that came through the governments of the United Right. Thanks to this, there are today benefits such as 500+, 13th and 14th pensions, 300+, which is a trip for students. It's worth mentioning how it all happened. President Tusk talked about the fact that there are many irregularities in our time. It is precisely because we have fought these irregularities and are still fighting, that the money for social benefits is there. We are talking about the fight against the VAT mafia, i.e. about 250 billion initially recovered just by securing this VAT gap. It is a great fight and cooperation of all right-wing options, also the great role of the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro, the great role of all the leaders of the United Right in working on this program to secure money for 500+ withdrawals. This is all that has happened to us in the last week when it comes to these media reports and comparing these two statements, showing the direction in which the Civic Platform will go, also hitting smaller opposition parties, showing that there is only dualism when it comes to the Polish political scene, does not serve anything good and does not bode well, because we did not hear the program there, we did not hear something there that is really going to change Poland if the opposition took over power. This is a case that's very dead. In my opinion, the situation we are observing shows citizens, voters that putting on this kind of party in the future, which only wants to win against the United Right, has no offer, can be a great tragedy for Poland. In my speech, I wanted first of all to present this great manipulation that Marshal Elizabeth Witek had experienced, whose speech, a strong speech, but the speech to which everyone had access, was compared with a strictly participative performance. Stop media manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u458	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u459	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the recent decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union to suspend the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, because that is the decision that the European Union would like to take. Today, it is also worth recalling the procedated bill on the appointment of judges to the National Judicial Council. In this respect, The Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General has just submitted a proposal following the Spanish draft of a judicial organisation. That's where you pointed out the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro, so that no less than 25 judges could sign up for this candidacy. Why 25 judges? Even one of the opposition Members then pointed out that maybe 20 judges. That's when the Minister of Justice said no. That's because it's just like Spanish legislation. I recall the example of Spain, because your judge ruling at the Court of Justice of the European Union is of Spanish origin. And what do you find out, ladies and gentlemen? That in Spain such an existing system is law-abiding, while in Poland it is no longer law-abiding. This is some kind of psychic. The same is true when it comes to the organisation of justice. After all, we all know that this is the exclusive prerogative of a Member State of the European Union. Each Member State of the European Union has the right to determine and organise justice. And in this respect, no one has ever entered any competence belonging to the national state. We do not want the European Union to be federalized and we oppose it loudly as Solidarna Polska. I'll give you an example of Germany here. There, judges, ladies and gentlemen, do not have immunities. The court in Poland is not really the result of the application of the public prosecutor, in this case the prosecutor's office, before the Disciplinar Chamber. This Disciplinary Board of the Supreme Court is yet to decide whether this judge may be brought before a court of law and whether, in short, the court may rule on the guilt or innocence of such a judge in the court of law. In this case, the Court of Justice of the European Union is simply trying to prevent this, because there is no prerogatives for this. Well, ladies and gentlemen, such decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union can never be accepted. We cannot agree that the European Union should be federalized in such a way that the decision-making centres in Brussels or Berlin decide how a system for judicial authorities in Poland is to be set up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u460	Thank you very much, sir. The last statement will be made by Monika Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland, July 2021 In Milaków, the district of Ostródzki, the council of PiS will examine whether the artistic group The witches do not practice occultism and worship Satan. They call on the headmistress of the community centre to explain and consult with the parish priest what she is allowed and what she is not allowed to do. I intervene in this case, of course, because there is no way that in the 21st century we would symbolically burn witches on stakes. The right-wing fanatics, who grow hatred, have totalitarian urges and claim the right to infallibility, should burn with shame. In a letter to the councillors from Milakow I remind them, but also from this point of view I want to remind Minister Czarnkow that Polish Criminal Code law is in force in Poland, not canonical law. That is why, Mr. Czarnek, you are a minister of the Polish government, not an altar boy in your local parish, which you are still ashamed of because you insult believers with your ignorance, hostility and fanaticism. What went wrong with your education, that instead of having access to deep knowledge, you want to base the virtues of a woman on the Poles? You and your advisor are wreaking havoc in Polish education and public life. Here are another frightening wisdom of Paweł Skrzydlewski, Minister Czarnek's advisor: Many people are not fit to be teachers. They're not good for atheists. Because atheism itself is an attack on human reason, it is an agreement on absurdity. I assure you, there is no consent to absurdity in Poland. Quite the nonsense of the minister, his advisors and many other right-wing radicals. I am terrified to see you try to reform Polish education by turning it back to the Middle Ages. I agree that Poland needs to be reborn, but as people of science - although being one of you in this group is an insult to him - you should know that this rebirth is the Renaissance, which, I hope, will follow the resignation of Minister Czarnek and the collapse of this government. It's gonna happen sooner or later. Minister Czarnek must leave for the sake of children, students and students, for the sake of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u462	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u463	Statement about Michael Falzmann on the 30th anniversary of his death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 years ago, on July 18, 1991, because of heart disease at the age of only 38 died suddenly Michał Falzmann, an employee of NIK, who discovered irregularities in the operation of the Foreign Debt Service Fund, which was filled by PRL officials. The FOZZ scandal and the suspicious death of people tracking her backstage, i.e. Michał Falzmann and Prof. Valerian Panka, then president of NIK, who died in a road accident four days before presenting the results of the inspection concerning FOZZ to the Sejm, still has to do with the history of the Third Polish Republic until today. FOZZ was a huge fraud machine. As a result of her actions Poland lost at least PLN 354 million. According to Falzmann, FOZZ was only part of a larger criminal activity. During his inspection, Michael Falzmann was harassed and received threats. His daughter, Zuzanna Falzmann, recently wrote that her father: he was aware of the danger of death, but he did not stop working. He gave his life for the truth. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u464	On July 7, 1944, at dawn, the troops of the National Army hit German positions around Vilnius, inside the city the troops of the Vilnius Garrison of the National Army began to join the fight. The Vilnius Uprising, known as Operation Ostra Gate, began. On the same day, Red Army troops approached the city from the east, also starting a fight for Vilnius. Poles themselves liberated the right bank of the city, followed by crossing the Wilia River and fighting together with the Soviets in the centre of Vilnius, moving towards the Sharp Gate. Vilnius was liberated on 13 July 1944. On the same day at Krawczuna, the AK troops fought the last battle with the German crew of Vilnius, which was retreating to the west. Several hundred soldiers of the National Army died in the fight for Vilnius, witnessing their patriotism and attachment to the Kresów of the Republic. Respect and memory fighting for free Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u465	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This year, on July 25th, we celebrate the national Safe Driver Day. This is an extremely important social action, which requires us to lean even further on the safety problem of road users and look at our behaviour on the road. On this special day, following the voice of the organizers, I would like to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of Members, and through you - to all the inhabitants of Poland for careful and prudent driving every day, so that we all travel safely on Polish roads. Why is your participation extremely important? We have current traffic information on the police website. It's just a vacation period. 175 people have been killed on our roads since the beginning of our period. It's just sketches, a couple of months of the year. I would also like to mention a passage from the police. pl: Keep in mind that behind every point marked on this map there is a human tragedy. Any, even seemingly trivial, disregard for regulations, bravado, disregard for sleepiness or fatigue can cause a tragedy on the road. The entire police action aims to draw attention to the scale of the tragedies that occur on Polish roads, to encourage road users to reflect, as well as to encourage the media to discuss road safety. The next edition of Safe Driver's Day will be the best opportunity to draw attention to the need to improve safety on Polish roads. Statistics clearly show that improving the quality of infrastructure improves road users' safety. It is therefore necessary to implement as quickly as possible all planned investments aimed at improving safety. At this point, when addressing all countries directly, it is impossible not to mention drivers. I would like to make a heartfelt appeal for consideration, especially during the holiday period, to try to exercise special caution. I want all those who contribute to improving safety, thank and wish perseverance and consequences. The best wish for you should be that on July 25th, on Safe Driver's Day, there should be no accident on Polish roads. I am fully convinced that this is up to all of us and that through special mobilisation we will be able to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 9 December 2019 the European Commission presented the assumptions of the European Green Deal. Europe is expected to become climate neutral by 2050. The European Commission is planning changes in many areas: energy, transport, agriculture, steel, cement, ICT, textiles and chemicals. However, there is no shortage of criticism of the objectives of this programme. According to the realists, it is too radical, and the targets are threatening both the business and the economies of the Member States, mainly Poland, whose energy is based in more than 70% on coal. It should be added that, thanks to the massive support of the United Rights Government, the share of RES increased to 26% in May 2021. As a country with a large share of coal in energy for many years, we have consistently stressed that climate change must be fair and must not worsen economic conditions in specific regions or social groups. Fit for 55 lacks recognition of the role of gas, whose sources of supply our government diversifys as transitional fuel in the funds proposed by the EC. For Poland, this is a key transitional fuel which is an essential part of a fair energy transformation. Poland does not see the possibility of implementing the target without recognising the role of gas at this transitional stage. For these reasons, Poland will remain an active partner for the EC and other Member States. The EU also increasingly announces the introduction of a carbon tax that would be levied on fuels in proportion to the greenhouse gas emissions generated by their combustion. The European Commission calls for Member States to give up coal in a short time and move towards renewable energy sources. In May 2020, MEPs from the European Conservatives and Reformists, including MEPs, called on the Presidents of the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament to postpone legislative initiatives on Green Governance, as the EU must now be a priority to get out of the crisis caused by the coravirus. The climate minister has repeatedly expressed the view that the solutions to the Green Deal before the pandemic did not take into account the economic crisis. The Minister expects its implementation to be slowed down, especially in the agricultural sector. The sceptics on the Green Deal do not really think that the proposals for directives and regulations are being made in the European Commission, but these directives and regulations are dictated by lobbyists. Polish energy and the Polish economy are hit by ETS prices, which have now been speculatively elevated over a period of several months from EUR 25 to EUR 60 per tonne. This causes huge costs for CO2 emissions in coal-based power plants. Western countries, which do not have historical experiences such as Poland and have dominant nuclear energy in the mix, are in favour of accelerating the EU's climate policy. There is a real threat that the aspiring companies in our region of Europe will be choked by climate legislation and subjected to unequal confrontation with Western competition. If the European Commission fails to submit an economic impact assessment, the entire Fit for 55 plan may be annulled by some EU leaders at the European Council. It is unofficially known that the veto does not exclude Viktor Orbán, Hungarian Prime Minister. Poland generally supports the achievement of climate objectives and realises that it is necessary to transform the Polish economy towards a low-carbon one, because it will cost more than necessary changes. Successive, but not radically modernising the national energy system and reducing its carbon footprint is the best way to ensure the competitiveness of our economy and to mitigate the consequences of climate policy on energy prices. Our government is aware that lower emissions mean lower fees for the power generation sector. Therefore, Poland is already introducing new programmes at national level, such as clean air, my current and other investment programmes - e.g. in the field of RES and energy efficiency - which brings us closer to the objectives pursued.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-sejm-35-1.u467	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 22 July 2021, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 19]]
